ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly work programme of the National Assembly as follows additional point: termination of the authority of the National Assembly. We have resigned from the Parliamentary Representative Kiril Dobrev on 25 May 2017 and I propose that this be the first point in today's meeting. Please vote. Vote 184 MPs: 180 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. "Admission' by Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev, Member of the National Assembly of the 7th Mir of Gabrovo Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as the MP elected by the 7th Mir Gabrovo in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I request that my authority as a Member of the National Assembly be terminated by a decision of the National Assembly pursuant to art. 72, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Sign with respect, Kiril Dobrev. On that basis, I propose to you the following: Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts the authority of Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev as MP from the Seventh Election Region You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I put to the vote your proposed draft decision. Vote 186 MPs: 182, against 2, abstention 2. The mandate of the MP Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev from the Seventh Multi-Multi-Multi-Multi-Multi-Multi-Multi-Multi-Resor Region "Gabrovo" has been terminated. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u2	Mr. President, honourable Members, my procedure in the manner of conduct is related to parliamentary control and that you are trying, as President of the National Assembly, to violate the Rules of Procedure, to restrict the capacity of the MPs for parliamentary control. That's what you do with the old test method. You are not the first to do so by inventing all kinds of ways to prevent questions and questions to the ministers, but especially to the Prime Minister. I tried to ask the Prime Minister a question about the goals of the new Bulgarian government and the personnel policy with which they should be implemented. It is obvious what we are talking about.. we have countless appointments or at least ten I can list, which I think are absolutely scandalous in the softest sense of the word, and it was logical to ask the Prime Minister what he was really after with these appointments. I think my question is perfectly clear! There's nothing incomprehensible about it. I get an answer that absolutely has nothing to do with the National Assembly's Rules, where you tell me he was only entitled to a five-minute answer. Always in parliamentary control he was entitled to a five-minute answer, by the way, are more in asking than in the question. And, you see, these two grand questions, he wouldn't be able to answer. I'm sure he won't be able to answer, but not because he doesn't have the time, but because he won't answer! I mean, you're trying to cover up the Prime Minister's weakness right now! [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] And I protest against your attempts, you have already once limited parliamentary control from three to two questions. Now go the deal where every time you return our questions so we can't ask two questions a week! Our constituents, I don't want to control Boyko Borisov! The voters want to do it, and that's why there's parliamentary control! [[Laughter and lines.]] I think it's unacceptable, and I'm asking you not to repeat these things! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. I don't know if you seem Prime Minister Borisov weak, but he doesn't seem weak to me at all. [[Laughter and lines.]] In addition, you yourself said that there were countless appointments, or whatever you said... How do you list them in five minutes, so I've quite rightly returned the question? [[Noise and lines.]] New questions for the period 19 May "25 May 2017' from: National Representative Georgi Yordanov Yordanov to Boil Banov. Minister of Culture, on the implementation of the financial parameters for the Council of Ministers' Decision of 1 April 2015 for the Multiannual Programme 2015 - 2019 for the support of the selected Bulgarian city for European Capital of Culture and your strategy in this regard. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 2 June 2017. People's representatives Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Mihailov, Valentina Naydenova, Ilian Timchev, Anelia Klisarova, Georgi Gokov, Ivan Ibrishimov to Nikolay Petrov, Minister of Health, on a comprehensive policy of the Ministry of Health in relation to a recommendation of the Council of the European Union on the National Reform Programme of Bulgaria for 2017. People's representatives Mihail Hristov, Anton Kutev and Georgi Gokov to Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, on policies for solving the problems of people with disabilities and the specific actions related to them. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 2 June 2017. - National Representative Dimitar Petrov and Diana Savateva to Valentin Radev, Minister of Interior, on the readiness of the Ministry of Interior to secure the summer tourist season. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 2 June 2017. Written answers to service: - from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to three questions from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - from the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Anelia Klisarova; - from the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to a question from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov. We're moving on to answers to questions. Valentin Radev will be the first to respond to a question by the National Representative Anton Kutev concerning the measures of the Ministry of Interior for control over the violent people. Mr. Kutev, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Radev, my question was dictated, unfortunately, by a case which we are seeing more and more often on the streets or at least in no case less often, the violence against an elderly woman a few days ago in Burgas by a person who, as far as I understand, I am not aware of the case, is criminally manifest and has a registration for certain deviations and unbalanced behaviour, which was clearly no surprise to anyone. However, this man is somehow at large. Something has happened that, in my opinion, has devastated all Bulgarian citizens. They saw him kick the woman at the bus stop, his aggressive behavior. Of course, these things happen. I can't hold the minister responsible for someone doing something somewhere. The problem I think is that people who are prone to this kind of violence walk the streets. Problem is, we saw the case because some camera caught it. However, I am convinced that there are many cases that are not filmed by the cameras and we do not know about them. And the next problem for this person, for whom he has every reason to be controlled, because with all his behavior he has shown himself to be aggressive and dangerous, obviously there are also relevant documents, since he has been criminally shown, there are registrations in psychiatric institutions, the result of this work is that we obviously need to control these people much more firmly. The next day, however, he was free! I don't know if the next day you haven't found any way to close it again, I have no idea how this case turned out. However, I am concerned that such people with such behavior may practically walk freely and pose a threat. My question to you is: what are the specific measures you are taking, not even specifically in this case. You're gonna tell us what you did to him. What, though, are the measures that you take not to do so? Unfortunately, we have another case. A few days ago, yesterday or the other day, a woman scratched a car, the owner came down and beat her up. Obviously, this kind of violence is becoming everyday! Obviously, we need measures to protect citizens from this. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My question is, what exactly are you doing, but not just in this case, but in principle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Mr. Valentin Radev, Minister of Interior, for an answer. Here you go, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, the actions of the police authorities in the incident with the injured elderly woman after the hit by an unknown person in Burgas were immediate, as you may know. In this case, the important role of video surveillance in the settlements and the good interaction of the Ministry of Interior with the local authorities should be emphasised. After reviewing and analyzing the incident footage, the person who struck the elderly woman was identified. It's really criminal. After immediate action by the police authorities for no less than six hours has been detained. Pre-trial proceedings have been initiated and the Burgas District Court has decreed a permanent measure of non-deviation and detention. This is what the employees of the Ministry of Interior do and thus act according to the law and in close cooperation with the local authorities and the prosecution. This is the answer to the first part of your question Specifically on the second part of your question: what measures will the Ministry of Interior take to ensure the rights and security of people, these measures affect the preventive activities of the Ministry of Interior, which police officers carry out constantly. I would like to remind myself that with the latest amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act, which we created in the National Assembly, I also participated in them, there is a new section. In accordance with art. 30a, para. 3 of the Law already has a issued and active Instruction for the order, organization and implementation of preventive activities of the police authorities of the Ministry of Interior, dated 13 January this year. The prevention measures in this Instruction are described on 23 pages more than 53 texts, if memory serves me right. I hope you don't want me to introduce you to these texts. In answer to your question, I will illustrate these preventive measures which the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Burgas has taken on the case you are talking about. First of all, it is proposed to increase the number of video surveillance sites by setting up cameras. Secondly, increasing the effectiveness of interaction with private security companies, with municipal, state and non-governmental organizations and institutions in order to obtain timely information on the detection and prevention of crimes. Next, an analysis of the security environment, in particular the cases found with violent acts similar to the case described, and on this basis redirecting police forces to the establishment of vulnerable places. Next, holding meetings with the employees of the Center for Mental Health in Burgas and training of the police staff to identify individuals with signs of mental disorders that are prone to violence. By the way, the Ministry of Health has a special register where they keep such persons. Finally, improving the interaction with the prosecution. This was done on the case. This is how we act on preventing these criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u7	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Kutev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I have no doubt that the Ministry of the Interior is implementing a number of measures that is indisputable and that is your job! However, the question is what is efficiency. And the main question is why is this guy out the next day? You can do as many analyses as you want in the end. I am glad that you will strengthen and put more strength in Burgas, but at the time the artillery said that the safest place in the bombings is where a bomb has fallen, because it does not fall twice in the same place. Therefore, it is expected that next time it will not be at the same stop. Trust me: it's not gonna be there, it's gonna happen somewhere else. That's not the kind of work that's gonna happen in the analysis. The question, however, is why is this man the next day on the loose? Frankly, I expected that you would start transferring in Boyko Borisov style and say: "We catch them, they let them go." I would like to tell you that this is not going to work either, because you have already been Deputy Minister in a government of Borisov, although not of the interior, you have been a member of the Internal Commission, certainly, and now you are a minister. You understand that GERB cannot catch up with Todor Zhivkov! [[Laughter, excitement.]] Zhivkov has been in power for 30 years, but you will not be in power for 30 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u9	How do you know?! [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u10	But you won't be in power for 30 years! I'm sorry. [[Executive excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u11	Get to the point, Mr. Kutev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u12	However, if you want to say it, go out and say: "I will be here for 30 years! " - I don't believe it will help you. You won't be in power for 30 years. You have a very short time, actually a year and a half.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u13	Mr. Kutev, you have the floor for a reply to the Home Secretary! Focus on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u14	Yeah, I'm talking to him. You have a year and a half in which you can do anything and have no excuses!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u15	We've been hearing that since 2009.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u16	The thesis is that ergo, you've done everything. You didn't, every day things happen that prove to you that you didn't do it! People who are looking at us are clearly aware that they are afraid. There's no one else to solve their problem but you. You're the minister, and that's the majority. This majority that's been preparing to rule for 30 years! You will neither rule for 30 years nor solve people's problems! Why this man was at large the next day is my question. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. For an answer, the Interior Minister Mr. Valentin Radev. Here you go, Mr. Radev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Kutev, you accidentally pushed me to speak politically. I'm not gonna do it now. I'm gonna hold back. [[Applause from GERB.]] You're trying to tell me and you're telling me this mantra. Well, what can I say?! Who do you think lets them in? I told you exactly what happened on this case. There's a case last night, literally every day there are cases like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u19	Who's gonna solve the problem?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u20	Are you asking me the question? The Home Secretary?! The matter is referred to the prosecutor's office. I said what the district attorney's office did to keep you in custody. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u21	Don't call from the gym. Listen to the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u22	I told you what we did and what we did. You say GERB. Okay, fine. Who made these changes to the law? I just reported them to you. An instruction has been issued. I made the effort to check inside the instruction: inside 14 times is mentioned about citizenship, 10 of the cases are precisely about interaction with citizens. Because you talked a lot during the campaign, and we have talked about it, but you especially, when you mentioned the word "people," I want all of us to call, I also call from this tribune citizenship to be included. What do you expect? The Ministry of Interior is going to stop all of this?! That's not gonna happen! My appeal to all of you is, seeing these problems, me and my colleagues are wondering what to do to stop the pressure, and maybe the good practice is to involve all citizens in some way, and more from the school. You know I'm not gonna tell you any new things, but it's like that's the answer! We cannot stop this in any other way by any instructions, by changing the laws if we do not include every active citizen. I'll give you an example of last night's case. A woman in Krushna Polyana was robbed in the middle of the road by a person. Two people in a car see him, stop him, get off him, chase him, stop him and call 112, police authorities come and hold him. This is how we must be active all of us! With these mantras who GERB is, who is Todor Zhivkov, excuse us, we will not help each other and I will not enter this story. So I say and appeal from here: please all those who are engaged, but also citizenship, which is everywhere, it is the eyes and ears. We keep ourselves actually and they must be the most active! Thank you. [[Extreme applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u23	Thank you, dear Minister of the Interior. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to questions to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov. The first question is from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov about alarming demographic trends in Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Chakarov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u24	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Petkov, in mid-March this year the Director of the Demographic Institute at BAS Associate Professor Petar Ivanov announced extremely alarming demographic data about Bulgaria. He pointed out that our country ranks first in the world in mortality, ahead of a number of African countries, and that there are huge differences in mortality in Bulgaria depending on the regions. It was also reported that the negative growth in Bulgaria is the largest in the world, as well as that Bulgaria is in the first place in suicides. At the same time, a report by the European Commission on the macroeconomic imbalances of our country, announced by the media in February, quoted me as saying: The ineffective health system contributes to one of the highest mortality rates and life expectancy in Bulgaria, which is also among the lowest in the European Union. In this regard, my question to you is as follows: are there adequate documents developed in Bulgaria to overcome the above-mentioned alarming demographic trends? If so, would you point out the main ones, since when are they being implemented, are any results reported, is there an analysis of how effective these documents are? Accordingly, if there are no such documents, are they developed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and when are they expected to be ready? Is an analysis by the Ministry when positive trends could be observed in Bulgaria in terms of demographic trends, something that our country needs extremely much? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy for an answer. Here you go, Mr. Petkov. You have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is responsible for developing, conducting, monitoring and reporting progress in the field of horizontal integrated cross-sector and inter-institutional demographic development policy. Low birth rates, high mortality rates, increased migration flows, rapid reduction and ageing of the population and the workforce lead to a threat of retention and a decline in economic development and growth in perspective. The measures Bulgaria is taking have a complex and comprehensive nature and relate strategically to adequate reform and adaptation of all sectoral policies and social systems to the general demographic changes for the European countries. Bulgaria is the first Member State of the European Union with long-term strategic documents developed and adopted by the Council of Ministers in response to demographic challenges. In the updated National Strategy for demographic development of the population in the Republic of Bulgaria with a horizon up to 2030 the guidelines for future work are described in 5 strategic priorities, 12 operational directions and 87 common measures with many specific tasks to each of them. The main elements of the National Strategy for Demographic Development are formulated in accordance with the understandings of demographic policy at European Union level in compliance with national specifics. A system of indicators for monitoring and analysis of the implementation of the Demographic Strategy has been developed. This analysis was last done with data for 2014. An analysis based on data for 2016 was submitted, which will be ready within one month. Special focus on meeting the demographic challenges of ageing the population has also been placed through the National Concept for Promoting Active Ageing in Bulgaria 2012 - 2030. Official demographic strategic documents adopted at government level have been developed with the assistance of the UN Population Fund and have been identified internationally as good practice. In 2016 with the support of the European Commission was drawn up a draft of the National Overall Strategy for Active Ageing in Bulgaria with an assessment of the opportunities for implementation and use of the Active Ageing Index, a tool created by experts of the European Commission and the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe for future peer reviews. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is responsible for the coordination and management of the Interdepartmental Working Group on Demographic Issues to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, which includes over 80 representatives of key state agencies, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences institutes, NGOs and social partners. Annual monitoring plans and annual informative and analytical reports for the implementation of demographic policy adopted with decisions of the Council of Ministers and integrating official data and forecasts of the NSI, Eurostat, UN, World Bank, administrative information, results of scientific and sociological or interdisciplinary studies shall be prepared from 2006. National mechanism for coordination and monitoring of demographic policy [[the President signals that time has run out]] has been perfected by establishing in 2014 and the National Council on Demographic Policy at the Council of Ministers. Due to the highly inertial and difficult reversible nature of demographic changes and trends, official forecasts for population development in the coming decades are extremely adverse. Therefore, it is extremely important to achieve a long-term political agreement to implement the measures identified to mitigate the negative demographic impacts on all spheres and areas of public life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u27	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Chakarov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u28	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, it is clear from your reply that everything is documentaryly wonderful, all strategic documents are prepared. It is good to do this analysis to see what the trends are, because for me, I suppose that for all of us, they are extremely disturbing, to put it mildly, the demographic profile, the demographic trends in our country, even more on the basis of the data that I just presented, that we have a negative growth. Even a number of African countries are better off than we are. Extremely high mortality, many suicides, suicide attempts, all of this is disturbing. But from what we hear from you, we did not understand the coordination between the different ministries. First of all, I refer to the Ministry of Health for common policies. In fact, competences in this respect should be extended given that in different regions, in view of differences in living standards and survival, there are also different parameters. This should be subject to the attention of all of us, the state, the establishment of effective policies to bring about convergence. We from DPS have always pointed out that there should be equalisation of quality and standard of all in Bulgaria, including in villages, in small and medium-sized settlements and what is as standard in European countries, should be with us. We would also like to appeal here today to have a new party consensus on policies that would form successful, positive trends in terms of demographic profile, but we are also not optimistic, given the initiative and profile of the Deputy Prime Minister who is responsible for these issues. We rely on you, Mr. Minister, to make policies effective so that we have positive demographic growth and trends with which the country can stand dignified. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Let us expect with positivism our next actions, because without demographic growth everything else would remain in the background, including policies in education, health care, social policies and so on. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. A hole? I won't. We move on to a second question from Svetla Bachvarova-Piralkova, Georgi Gokov and Radoslav Stoychev on the use of day-to-day contracts in agriculture. Mrs. Bachvarova, you're welcome to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u30	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, in 2015 as a result of a change of the Labour Code, an opportunity was created for the conclusion of day-to-day employment contracts for those employed in agriculture. Otherwise, the good idea of lightening the sector in terms of employment is not confirmed by the published data on how many day-old contracts have been concluded in recent years, given that around 700 thousand and over 700 thousand are employed annually in the sector and the contracts concluded are between 1 and 2% of the total employment. There's a lot of reasons. Most of them were mentioned by farmers last year. That's why there were protests. In 2017 you have made an attempt to optimize this by electronic submission of the relevant documentation, as far as the data shows, there is little progress with regard to the contracts concluded, at least at the beginning of the year. Furthermore, the Labour Inspection continues to believe that the sector is risky. From the lightening point of view, the checks are almost daily for the conclusion of labour law, for the safety of work. From this point of view, our question to you relates: firstly, what will be the policy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the implementation of day-to-day contracts? Has this measure been analysed so far with regard to the optimization of employees, including any legislative changes needed? And a slightly more private question put in last year and this year is that the day-to-day contract is, after all, for a fixed time, for full-time, during the day, and there are many sectors in agriculture where full-time does not exist in practice. For example, the rosubert is currently in its active season for realization and the working time starts from 5,00.6:00 to 10:00 p.m. This means that we do not have full-time implementation within the day. Will we have proposals for differentiation of different sectors in terms of the implementation of employment contracts so that they are optimal and that there is interest in them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u31	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. For an answer, "Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy." Here you are, Mr. Petkov, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, Dear Mr. Gokov, Dear Mr. Stoychev, the possibility of hiring unqualified labour in the main economic activity was introduced in Bulgarian labour law in mid-2015. The procedure for the conclusion of the day-to-day labour contracts for processing plantations and harvesting fruits, vegetables, pink color and lavender was provided as relieved compared to the requirements for other types of employment contracts. Farmers are exempt from the obligation to register with the National Revenue Agency the conclusion and termination of these contracts. They should not develop official characteristics, issue contract termination orders and form employment books such as all other employers have obligations. On the other hand, contracts for short-term seasonal agricultural work protect employees' rights by introducing certain insurance risks for them and preserving their right to social assistance and compensation, given that their employment is very short-lived. In 2016, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy commissioned an assessment of the effects of the application of the regulations of the labour contract for short-term seasonal agricultural work. The effect of day-to-day contracts on employment is evident from the increase of official employees in agriculture in the first six months of 2016, when day-to-day contracts are already used compared to the first half of 2015. On average, in 2015 and 2016. 78 per cent of the persons insured on day-to-day contracts were not provided on any other basis, which means that the majority of employed are unemployed or persons working entirely in the grey economy. The data show that day-to-day talk does not shift other types of employment but leads to an increase in income. In 2015, day-to-day contracts used 1196 insurers who rented over 15 thousand. 200 individuals for 57 thousand. 900 working days. In 2016, the scope of the day-to-day contracts was extended. The number of insurers rose by 27 per cent to 1524; the number of insured persons rose by 43 per cent, reaching about 22 thousand; the number of days in insurance under one-off contracts increased by 63 per cent to 94 thousand. 300. A significant share of the persons who worked in 2015 were rehired and worked in 2016. Observations show that employers once employed on day-to-day contracts tend to hire them again next year. As regards the optimization of the implementation of the day-to-day employment contracts, the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Labour shall endeavour to facilitate the administration of the process of registering the samples. The online registration system has been in operation since February. The system allows the registration of the samples at any time, even at an off-time time for the administration. The software also provides other optimizations of the process, which, according to the farmers used it, reduces significantly the time for filling and registration of day-to-day contracts. As regards the recruitment of persons to carry out the activities [[the President signals that time has run out]] , which do not require full daily working hours, such as the rosobore, for example, it should be borne in mind that the Labour Code also provides other employment opportunities. Time-term contracts are regulated for both full and part-time implementation of work activities that have a seasonal hacker and also for work on certain days of the month. Finally, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will continue to work towards ensuring the rights of agricultural workers by carrying out effective control activities on the one hand, and on the other, supporting farmers by providing advice and information on the proper implementation of the current regulatory framework. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u33	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there a line? Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply, but what you have told me is well-known information. It is clear to me that you have to answer questions and other people's problems. I cannot believe that I and our colleagues who ask you questions, and also the MPs, and also the farmers, and the workers in agriculture at seasonal work, that when one measure affects two or three, let's say five percent of those who work in agriculture are effective. It is in no way effective in the situation that there is with the adoption of this change in the Labour Code, that then the government in the desire to show how well they are with the problems and demands of farmers, hastily made a rash legislative change, and time has shown that it is not accepted unambiguously. I didn't hear what your policy was going to be in response. I've heard some information, I've heard some formal wishes to improve the operation of these contracts, but I haven't heard what policy will be in this direction. Nearly two years later, we talk again: is this legal form appropriate, or is it not appropriate?! My adamant answer to my colleagues is that this form is not appropriate and needs to be seriously reconsidered. I'm sorry, that's not part of the question, but I didn't hear it in your answer, and now I'm asking it as an additional question, if you will, the other side of the question is the violation of workers' rights. For the first time in the Bulgarian legislation was introduced an employment contract, which is not recognised as an internship, deprives the working person of all the positives, which brings him this accumulation of service experience class for service time, leave, prolonged benefits. The treaty does not guarantee employment and any income, a lack of guarantees for the rights of workers, which in turn lead to low pay. There are extremely many questions that are not answered either by your answer to the question [[the President signals that time has run out]] , neither from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy's actions and in general from the implementation of all legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u35	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u36	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, in response to your reply, I would like to confirm the intention of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to continue carrying out this policy relating to short-term employment in plant farming in agriculture in order to increase the effects I have already mentioned and the data confirms that it is being monitored. A subsequent assessment of the impact of regulatory changes has been carried out. I would like to add the answer to my question that, with 37 000 registered farmers in the register of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, 5 866 of them who process an area over 5 hectares and which are supposed to use hired labour, from them models of day-to-day contracts during the period of analysis have stated 1817 farmers. The analysis of the subsequent impact of this change in the legal framework of this policy will continue to take place. We will look for opportunities to improve legislation. That is what I could answer in addition to your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u37	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. With this, the questions to Minister Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, are exhausted. Thanks for being a part of this. We continue with questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov. Mr. Nankov will answer first a question of the MPs Pencho Milkov, Krum Zarkov and Georgi Stoilov regarding the construction of a new highway or road Ruse - Veliko Tarnovo. Come in, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! The question I will ask with my fellow Members from the Ruse region is such a question which, at every meeting with citizens, regardless of which political power you are, they turn to you and this is the question of the Ruse road - Byala - one time that is with sad glory. Most road accidents happen this way in the country. The state of this road section practically does not connect, but separates Ruse from the rest of the country. Citizens in the area have referred to the construction of a new path as a major priority for a long-term solution. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works has become known to us that he has held meetings with MPs from the Russian Election Region. He has also been asked a number of current questions. Specific commitments have been made. Promises have been made, but at the moment the road remains unrealized as a project. We can see that the new government is referred to as a priority in the part of the Transport and Regional Development. In view of this, we ask you to answer the following questions: is the construction of a new motorway or a speedy road connecting Ruse to Veliko Tarnovo? Is specific action taken for this? What stage are they at? To point out the necessary steps, and what interests citizens the most is possible deadlines for their implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u39	Thank you for your question. Minister, we're waiting for your answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Milkov, Zarkov and Stoilov! The priority of the government, respectively of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, is building a modern and safe road infrastructure. You know, you mentioned it in your question. The government of Boyko Borisov 3 has placed one of the first places in its investment program building a new highway. I will emphasise. not a speedy road, but a new highway connecting the town of Ruse with Veliko Tarnovo, in order to bring traffic out of the settlements and circumvent the dangerous stretch of Byala, which will, respectively, lead to a reduction of traffic accidents on the existing first-class road, and will improve connectivity in this really important regional, and not only, development of the country region. You know, the precinct is also part of Transport Corridor 9. At the moment I am working to say a little specific in the answer to my question, a project for the award of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the 118 km-long road route is divided into three sections. The first, and to call it the most critical from the point of view of road safety, is the Ruse-White section, the second is the tour of the town of Byala, and the third is Byala Veliko Tarnovo. Of the options presented by the projector for the route of the motorway in front of the Agency, the road infrastructure is selected appropriate from the technical and economic point of view option of the present. It needs to be approved as appropriate, respectively and from an environmental point of view, with a decision of the Ministry of Environment and Water. This Decision is expected to be announced on the environmental impact assessment by the Ministry of Environment in the second half of this year. Once the forthcoming decision has come into effect, we can proceed to the second stage of the project, which includes the development of ideas for large facilities. You know, there are bridge facilities. We also foresee that during Byala's tour we will have a similar large bridge facility, reflecting the comments, recommendations and proposals respectively to the Ministry of Environment and the Contracting Party, as well as transmitting the final development for consideration in the Office of Road Infrastructure and the National Council of Expertise on a structure of the territory and regional policy. A contract was signed on 10 April this year for the grant of financial assistance under the Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure 2014 " 2020" between the Agency " Road Infrastructure" and the Managing Authority of the Programme in the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications for Design. We are already talking about the actual design of the motorway section of Ruse - Veliko Tarnovo, that is, we have secured funding and when selecting a contractor I mentioned what the procedures are from here on out. We'll also assign the actual design. The Ministry of Regional Development, Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency is working hard, except for the design, of course, on the field construction provision as well as on the financial provision of the construction of the technical project. And by the investment itself, of course. For the realization, you know, at the 118km segment, information is repeatedly provided that the minimum price will be over 550 million. Euros. This is the indicative value of the construction works which do not include the development of the technical project, which I mentioned has been provided with funding. Different options for providing funds, including the introduction of tolls, are discussed, respectively. It's probably the most important feather. Perhaps in most of the answers, I said last Friday to Parliamentary Control, and in the future I will give a similar answer. The introduction of tolls and electronic wineries and the state budget will develop a little more theme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u41	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Will there be any lines from the importers of the question? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Thank you for your answer, Minister. For more than 20 years, the possibility of a solution to the problem of construction of the road Ruse has been discussed. After careful and detailed research, we have found that this extremely important issue has been put here, in this Chamber, repeatedly and beyond. You as a former Deputy Minister in this Ministry are aware of the problem and it is before you as a current minister that the great responsibility lies for its resolution. I am pleased with the fact that building this road is already a priority of this government and, as you said, one of the first three priorities. It is clear from the statement that the project is currently in a phase of adoption of an environmental impact assessment, after which depending on the parameters chosen, its final value will be specified. Given that on 13 February 2015, Minister Lilyana Pavlova of this tribune stated that it was submitted as a priority project under the Juncker Plan, she also specified that as an additional alternative the project was included in the negotiating list with the European Investment Bank. You also mentioned his funding, but you didn't say anything about the deadlines. If you can specify what is extremely important to everyone concerning this project in the backrest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u43	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the additional question in the reply of the National Representative Georgi Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoilov, yes, it is a fact that we are talking about European funding. You know, it is limited not only by the construction of a new road infrastructure or the rehabilitation of an existing one, it is limited to all other sectoral policies, which we respectively dotrate and finance with European resources. In this case, you have rightly mentioned, we are not talking about European funding. I therefore mentioned what possible not only could and will be the financial instruments that will be used for the realization of the extremely important, I repeat, not just a priority, it is vital for the development of the region and of Northern Bulgaria road section. First of all, you mentioned loan instruments. This is our third option. We are oriented towards funds from the state budget. This is our main objective, but not on the basis of an additional subsidy to the Agency's budget, but on the basis of its own budget, which is currently EUR 300 million. lv. There's nothing to comment on. It is only enough for us to rehabilitate 10% of the existing Republican road network on an annual basis. On the contrary, with the introduction of the mixed system for toll and electronic wineries and the provision of resources of more than 200 million annual basis, we will only be able to from the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency as these revenues will only be spent for the construction of new sections of the Republican road network and rehabilitating existing ones, not only for the specific motorway that we comment on, but also for the other important and strategic roads in Northern, of course, we will not forget Southern Bulgaria, we will have enough resources that we will be able to invest in the construction of new ones. The borrowing instruments you mentioned are also an option. However, the option remains on line two and on line three from the point of view of the fact that still the borrowing resource always leads to indirect costs on the basis of the relevant interest rates that the State has to pay on them. Regarding the deadlines you asked me as a question, I could hardly commit to the deadlines. You know very well why, with a specific deadline, because procedures always depend on the desire of the contracting entity. They're appealable, you know, for the most part. The environmental evaluation procedure, the environmental impact assessment procedure and the procedures for the award of the relevant activities under the Public Procurement Act are also appealed. However, if we accept, as I mentioned, 2017 in our linear timetable, we should have adopted an environmental impact assessment, assigned in 2017 the technical design of the site within one year with the selection of a version of the National Expert Council. The award of works itself can start at the end of 2018 completely realistically, in the case of, of course, secured financing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u45	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to a matter of MP Dora Yankova to Minister Nankov and it is about the construction of the road from the village of Zagrádzhden, Banite municipality, to the municipality of Lucky. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u46	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, my question to you is about the financing and construction of the road village of Zagrazhden, Banite municipality, near Belitsa, Lucky municipality. About a month ago the residents of seven villages in Banite municipality, and I think Banite municipality itself is consolidated, sent to all institutions in Bulgaria an open letter with more than 700 signatures. Since you have taken over the Ministry, their question and their call sounds like this to the Prime Minister, to the President and, in particular, the question is to you: to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works: Dear ladies and gentlemen, we're calling you for help. We are the population from the village of Zagrazhden, the village of Valchan dol, the village of Glagino, the village of Davidkovo, the village of Mountain, the village of Riben dol, the village of Two poplars...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The municipality itself is located 100 km from Smolyan, and to reach Plovdiv, it passes 200 km. You know that for the Rhodopes roads are support, economics and development. Since the whole area is only on wheels, there is a second-class road, the very call of all these people is that the municipality of Banite and the upper part, where these seven villages are, could be supported by a small investment by the government of the Republic of Bulgaria, building this time so that tourism can be revealed and therefore these people can enter into a more active economic activity. Therefore, Minister, I look forward to your response to the financing and construction of this road. If the file with their signatures is lost somewhere, I'd like to give it to you and leave it here on the desk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Minister, please complete your response to the road village of Zagrazhden, Banite municipality. I deliberately repeat the name of the village, which I misread, having an idea of the names of the settlements in Western Bulgaria. That's where the emphasis is elsewhere. With an apology to the inhabitants of Zagrajen village.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, thank you for the folder. I suppose you come from the fact that sometimes documents are lost in the Ministry, as in the case of the tunnel, but not during our mandates. These signatures stand in the Ministry, I'll take them again. A few words in a specific answer to your question. On the territory of Smolyan District Road Infrastructure Agency, you know, is responsible for the construction, repairs and maintenance of over 500 km of Republican road infrastructure. In order to improve the state of the Republican roads in the area for the period April-October, the period of active ongoing repair and maintenance is planned for 2017, implementation of ongoing repair and maintenance activities for which more than 1 million are provided in the API budget. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible 078 thousand. lv.! This is the budget, you and I can debate where to distribute it. "Whether to be the road between the municipality of Lucky, Plovdiv region, and the municipality of Banite, Smolyan region, or in other sections. The Republican road you mentioned is third-class, part of the Republican road network of Bulgaria, passing through the territory of Smolyanska and Plovdiv region, and the section from the municipality of Lucky to the village of Zagrazhden falls into the territory of the two districts. Construction and repair activities in the district started in early 2014. In part of the section of the road on the territory of Smolyan district to the border with Plovdiv district, in the direction of Zagrazhden village, the activities ended at the end of 2014. They were paid off at the time by the new management of the Agency. It was worth about 1 million. lv. with VAT. Due to the exhaustion of the financial resource respectively, the site was stopped. The division on the territory of the district of Plovdiv between the village of Southovo, the municipality of Lucky, near the border with the district of Smolyan has a narrow gauge, in places with completely missing road construction and drainage. The existing masonry support walls are in a transmission state. Really extremely difficult condition of the road, so we may not be able to do the proper rehabilitation in the current repair. The construction of the rest in the section of the municipality of Lucky to the village of Zagrajen is not included in the investment programme of API for 2017, I will explain for what reasons. First of all, to establish its current status and to identify measures to be taken to complete the site, API experts have been currently carrying out a two-week tour of the route. An expert assessment will be drawn up for this reason why a budget for 2017 is not provided, to determine which sections a technical project should be drawn up, because in those in transmission state, we have active landslides, we can hardly pass, I mention again, in terms of current repairs and maintenance. For them will be prepared a technical project for major renovation and reconstruction and in which sections, respectively, with the expertise that is currently being carried out by the "Railway Infrastructure" Agency, it will be proved that the cheaper resource, not so expensive repair with funds on the current maintenance, can be implemented. You are right in finding, we do not want to divide and categorize our priorities only by the classes of highways, first, second class. On the contrary, we know that third-class roads and as a percentage are in the worst condition of the Republican road network, but from the point of view of regional development they are the main aisle The first one will be proven by the expertise. There should be technical design, respectively the award of the construction. A resource will be provided for the current repair and maintenance in the rest. Here we could not join within this million that I mentioned, to our great regret. I will return to the toll again, perhaps in the backdrop, as the Agency's revenue, as you very well know, is extremely insufficient.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u49	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u50	Dear Minister, I understood your answer this way: We know that there is a problem, we will see, but whether it will happen. Doubtful because you did not say a deadline. In technical and construction terminology, as you have been advised, this brings you out of some position. And the first government of Borisov, and the second, you are in the third, there is no commitment to this problem. These funds were one million, one and a half million afterwards, on the public-investment program, when the Oresharski cabinet was, and one step was taken. Understand the problem. He's not political. The problem is to help to preserve and preserve a municipality, as it has enormous tourist potential. Until 1989, for the sake of Karamush....and the hunting exploits of certain great men....bettered and stopped this time. Now there's an opportunity for 2.5 kilometers. You're a man who knows about construction. Let's get him to engineering. Don't do it with big gauges, but open the city. 50 miles from Lucky to Asenovgrad. It's a wonderful community. 2 million, 2 and a half million to devote to supporting the economic development of the municipality in order to preserve demographics, it is more than politics to force these people to leave the municipalities and to seek livelihood elsewhere. Therefore, the responsible behavior is.. I turn to you and I ask you to commit yourself to deadlines...... that this time it will be built in the mandate in which you are responsible. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Since the question contained a great deal of solution and advice on how to find an answer, please come in for the duplicate, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u52	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, I could hardly agree with the finding that Borisov's government specifically ignores the individual areas and does not improve and rehabilitate the infrastructure in them, let alone the road infrastructure. The resource was secured but paid back at the end of 2014, December. The programme was clear.. 1 million. 200,000. lv. without VAT. I'll tell you what was done in Smolyan district the most important road sections for 2012 2013: reconstruction of the third-class road Madan-Glatograd-Benkovski 10 million. BGN, Batak "Dospat" - Barrotin "800,000 BGN." with VAT, preventive repair of Stoyanovo - Ardino "I am only talking about the third-class and smaller sections of the project - 700 000 BGN, 24 million for the road Smolyan-Michalkovo-Krichim, you know the section for Pamporovo 24 million with VAT. Apart from that, special for Smolyan District, we have anticipated... For the road Asenovgrad - Smolyan we have provided a third tape to be built within this mandate. Apart from that under the Operational Programme, the roads will have guaranteed funding with a European budget, we have over 80 million. lv. for Smolyan region: Mihalkovo region I suggest, if you want in a debate with you, I tell you what are the options for current repairs and maintenance. To take out some of these roads from the Operational Program "Regions in growth" "Maybe there will also protest many Bulgarian citizens who will be dissatisfied by dropping out the rehabilitation of these road sections" to take out some of these road sections and do what you say.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u53	Don't fight them!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u54	I would commit myself within the framework of the budget, which has the Road Infrastructure Agency, as it is normal for every ministry, respectively, every minor authorising officer such as the Road Infrastructure Agency, to spend such resources as it has. I mentioned 300 million. lv. on an annual basis for the construction of new sections and rehabilitation of existing ones. I can only commit that we will not leave any of the districts of Bulgaria without targeted investments under the Ministry's budget and under the Operational Program, which gives us the opportunity to rehabilitate the roads second and third grade. In fact, I'm going to commit myself to this road you mentioned with this stretch of 2.5 kilometers. So we're going to figure out what the value for these 2.5 kilometers is going to be. from the reference we have for 18 kilometers. If it allows us to allocate resources within 200 000 BGN, we could, within this million for ongoing repair and maintenance, be able to fit in. Again, I say that specifically for Smolyan District the Ministry, respectively the Road Infrastructure Agency, has done enough. The fact is, we must not allow ourselves to tear apart individual settlements and leave them without transport accessibility. Whatever needs to be done will be done within the limits of the budgets we have for the Agency. Thank you. [[People's representative Dora Yankova requests a conductive procedure]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u55	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you. Although there are ministers standing here, as you make remarks by MPs when they do not speak on the subject... I turned to the Minister to commit specifically to this path and shared that the three governments of Borisov have no commitment to this path. I am opposed to separate policies in the Rhodopes being opposed in order to seek a solution. I therefore ask that you also keep the ministers in line when they need to respond. Mr. Minister, the question was specific for Zagrazhden village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u57	Thanks for the remark, Mrs. Yankova. Obviously, the dialogue with the minister will continue. I hope you get a satisfactory answer. We move on to a question to Minister Nankov, asked by the MPs Daniela Saveklieva, Georgi Dinev, Stefan Apostolov, Alexander Matsurev, Dimitar Gamishev about the construction of the highway. There is a word for Mr. Dinev to develop the issue within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! My question is related to the construction and construction of Struma Motorway, which is of great national importance due to two main factors. The first factor is the purely human The other main factor is the purely economic factor because from the construction and completion of a modern European highway the whole region would receive great economic growth. Dear Minister, in the three months of the caretaker government on many projects there was a great delay. The biggest and most serious one was on the highway of Struma. It became clear that there were documents submitted by participants in the tender for Zheleznitsa. This section has the most serious concentration of road accidents. The road through the Kresna Gorge is the most dangerous route with the highest number of victims. Unfortunately, even this week, a man's life has been taken from this particular precinct. Even days of delay there can lead to dangerous consequences. In this regard is my question to you, Mr. Minister: what is the delay in the procedure by the institutions involved................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Is there going to be a new auction? What is the danger of failure of the tender or possible appeals by the KPC and SAC and possible loss of funds? What stage is the most problematic section of the Kresna Gorge? Wouldn't it lead to a loss of funds and even a return of funds for the entire highway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u59	Thank you, Mr. Dinev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u60	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleagues who asked the question, Struma Motorway is a more regional project. I always said he should be above political. It is a geostrategic project for the whole of Bulgaria, not only for Bulgaria, but for the Balkans and for the whole of Europe. Therefore, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works together with the API as a specific beneficiary of Operational Programme "Transport", you know, we are working hard to complete all sections, not only those listed by you from the motorway, including the most problematic section from the point of view of road safety, field complexity and environmental appropriateness, namely the section through the Kresna Gorge. The deadlines set in the schedule are optimized so that the construction of the motorway is completed, this is in response to your last question, within the time frame of the programming period, namely December 2023. The construction of Lot 3 of Struma Motorway is especially in three, you know, positions, in three floors: Lot 3.1 Blagoevgrad, Krupnik, with a total length of 12,54 km. As part of it, the construction of a tunnel of 2 km and 2 km and 460 m is designed from this lot 3.1. Perhaps I will answer this part of the question in a little more detail, as it was the missing documents that were there that ended the procedure and I will give a little more information about it. Lot 3.2 Krupnik "Kresna," part of which is the Kresna Gorge, the worst, I mentioned, section and lot 3.3 Kresna "Sandanski" with a length of 23 km 620 m. For Lot 3.1 Blagoevgrad, Krupnik and Lot 3.3 Kresna, Sandanski there are procedures, contracts for design and construction, construction supervision. There's funding in place. You know, the subject is being handled according to the terms laid down in the contracts. In the middle of the route of Lot 3.1 is a tunnel with a length of 2 km, north of the village of Zheleznitsa. An open procedure was announced for the design and construction of the tunnel, which was terminated at the beginning of April this year by a decision of the API Governing Council, which required that the documentation should be updated as soon as possible and that the public procurement was announced again. I will not comment on the reasons that led to the termination. You know, documents disappearing, looking for each other, you still don't know exactly what they were missing, what they found and so on. There, the DANS and the D.A.'s office, the competent authorities are conducting an investigation. I don't think it's right for me to comment before the relevant results and findings come out. I am just going to say at the moment what the Road Infrastructure Agency is doing is working on drawing up new tender documents for participation and it is intended to be divided into three sub-divisions. I won't mention why it's easier in terms of performance. Of course, our main goal is to reduce the delay that we have from over eight months in this section by about 400 days and thus the deadline for completion will be reduced, I mentioned, by about 400 days, from 1400 to 1000 days. The contractor for design, construction and engineering of the site is scheduled to be selected by the end of February 2018. Lot 3.2 from the highway "Struma" from Krupnik to Kresna, Kresna Gorge, you know, the most complex section of the highway from every point of view. At the moment, no tendering procedure has been announced to obtain the approval of the European Commission for financing this section. A ready-to-use project is needed and the application form is to be submitted. Deputy Minister Popnikolov had mentioned that it was filed. On the contrary, it wasn't filed. The application form has not been submitted to the European Commission. It is to be submitted, respectively, by removing the notes of the colleagues from Jaspers. Accordingly, the API has provided for the necessary actions to develop and complete the new form for the financing of the project. Technical specification and tender documentation have been developed for the award of this application form. It shall start in June 2017 and the corresponding selection of a contractor by the end of November. These are specific deadlines and I think they are foreseeable, despite the complaints that could occur, and the month of November 2017 to have a contract for the preparation of the application form. The API has planned at the end of 2017 the tender procedures for the selection of contractor of construction and construction supervision to be announced and by mid-2018 there will be an appointed contractor for the site of the They're, you know, longer appeal deadlines. According to the Public Procurement Act, you know, the contracting authority's decision and the award decision can be appealed to the Commission for Protection of Competition, respectively to the Supreme Administrative Court at second instance, so I could hardly commit myself to those deadlines. Our common objective at the moment is to submit to the Ministry of Environment and Water the EIA report and the compatibility assessment to it, taking into account all relevant deadlines, at the beginning of March 2019, to have a building permit issued for Lot 3.2, so that we can really, I mentioned what is the duration of the Operational Programme, eligibility of the activities and costs of the Operational Programme "Transport" to 2023 to have a finished section and not lose any euro funding and really improve Sofia's communication access with the nearest port of Thessaloniki, respectively to make a connection between the localities of the region fast and adequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u61	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Please elaborate on the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your comprehensive answer. You yourself mentioned a problem section, a problematic procedure for the tunnel "Zeleznitsa" and in that order of thought I would also like to ask an additional question, which, according to all of us, is essential. My question is: how was the external expert selected in the procedure for "Zeleznitsa" during the service cabinet, the external expert who is actually responsible for the corruption and fall of the procedure for the construction of this section? How is an external expert appointed, who during the management of the three coalition, was part of the management of the API, and at the exact moment when the European Commission stopped all the money for roads in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u63	Thank you, Mr. Dinev. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat. You have this opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dinev, I may not be the correct addressee of the question. It's hard to tell exactly how he was assigned. Other bodies are currently questioning, I guess, and they're figuring out exactly how he was assigned. Yes, it is practice, and it is not a bad practice when there is really external expertise, according to legal procedures, the external expert must be registered with the Public Procurement Agency, and selection shall be carried out, respectively, if the relevant experts have a better competence on the subject matter and nature of the contract than the experts of the contracting entity, in this case the Road Infrastructure Agency. I also mentioned in a summary in my answer to the basic question. I could hardly commit to a comment on the subject, as the really competent authorities in the country are currently conducting an investigation on the subject. The fact is that not only did the bad practice that brought back some processes and events from ten years ago in the Road Infrastructure Agency, you know how long it took the Bulgarian state to overcome both negativity and the attitude of the European Commission after 2009, after similar practices from some previous periods, it is a fact that some of the vices, some of the bad moments have now been returned. I am convinced that we are currently not going to see one in this leadership. Let us let the competent authorities do their investigation of how, for what reasons, this external expert, respectively, was appointed to whom he was appointed the home was found missing documents of one of the participants in the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u65	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We come to the question of MPs Filip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev about the urgent repair of the international road II-14 Vidin. Here you are Mr. Topchiev, you will develop the question, you have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, my question concerns the international road II 14 Vidin "Kula" "Kurska" and in particular the section between the villages of Byala Rada and Soldieritsa. You must be well aware that there have been landslide processes in this area for years, the area is unusable and it is necessary to use a bypass route. [[Shows photos.]] I also have a picture here to get a visual idea of what this road is, which is of international importance, connects Bulgaria with another country. In this regard, my question to you is when will this department be repaired? Mr. Minister, I'll leave the photos for you to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u67	Thank you for asking the right question, and I specifically expect Mr. Nankov's answer. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Topchiev! Thank you for your photos today you are pouring materials on me, not that they are not in the Road Infrastructure Agency and in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. On the contrary, much more detailed are our materials, and on the basis of them I will say what action we have taken at present. The Republican road that you mentioned is the road II-14, the road Vidin.Kula.Kula.Kurska Chuka, the border with the Republic of Serbia is carrying out transport communication at the localities Slatina, Novoseltsi, Bella Rada and Soldieritsa with the municipality of Vidin, the city of Kula and the border crossings. Intensive precipitation in 2014 has activated the landslide zone on route II-14 in the section you mentioned in your question between the villages of Bela Rada and Soldiers and caused the overload of road pavement and the opening of deep cracks reaching up to 1 m in depth and width. A tube watershed was destroyed at the 10th kilometer, which does not take the surface water, with which the processes are deepening. For the site there is a finished technical project, designed on the basis of the research design works carried out by the Road Infrastructure Agency in order to clarify the reasons for the destabilization processes in the section. The technical project was adopted by the Road Infrastructure Agency of the Board of Experts. The necessary action has been taken for the renovation of the precinct that you mentioned. "Bella Rada and Soldier from the second-class road II-14. A tender procedure was launched on 12 May this year for the selection of contractor of the construction and installation works for the restoration of the area. The time limit for submission of tenders shall be 19 June 2017. One month and one week. I must mention that in 2016 a contract was concluded with the contractor for the exercise of the copyright supervision of the project within the meaning of the Law on Structure in the territory and the regulations in force. At present, selection, examination and evaluation of the bids of the participants in an open procedure under the Public Procurement Act for selection of contractor for the completion of the construction and supervision of the site is being carried out. The period for carrying out the necessary reinforcement and drainage activities of the site ensuring the stability of the affected landslides of the area and the removal of groundwater in a safe way outside the landslide area shall be 110 calendar days from the conclusion of the contract. I mentioned that the deadline for submitting offers is 19 June 2017. After the conclusion of the contract, the deadline for implementing the construction and repair works for strengthening the landslide is 110 calendar days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u69	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Popov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I hope you really have more detailed photos at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works because the photos are the same 10 years ago. It's not from yesterday or today. Such a question has been asked during Mr. Plevneliev's time and he answers: To be absolutely honest with you, these repair works have not been realized due to the elementary fact.. This is happening in the plenary sitting in 2010. A question is again asked in 2011: "It is included in the 2011 Emergency Programme project of the Agency for Road Infrastructure." It is set to repair the pipe and restore the fallen section. The funds provided for this amount to approximately 390 thousand. lv. with VAT. The activities must be carried out within three months of the beginning of this year's construction season. That's what's going on in. 2011 In 2015 the Minister is already Mrs. Pavlova, who says: "You are right! You asked Mr. Rosen Plevneliev this question as Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. It's a fact! The actions were carried out, but apparently they were insufficient. That's why this time we decided to change our approach. What we are doing right now, perhaps you have seen it and you have announced a tender procedure so that we can do a detailed analysis of the geologic state of the terrain, of the reasons that led to this spectacular really subsidence of the flood and sinking, which is about a meter long, to make sure that the measures, which from now on, on the basis of this analysis, will be designed, are measures that will solve the problem permanently. This is happening in 2016. She also says: "I hope that once we have chosen a contractor, this geological survey is done, an analysis will be made, funding will be provided and the Road Infrastructure Agency will apply under the Interdepartmental Commission for Disasters and Incidents. We come again, already in 2016. Once again it is answered that this time, the indicative value of the proposed option, in order to strengthen the landslide, is 2.5 million. lv. Once again, promises are made that this time will be reflected qualitatively and within the relevant period.... from 2010 to the present time. I hope, dear Minister, that you will be the first minister to really solve this problem. We rely on you because this is an international road, concerning Bulgaria's relationship with the Republic of Serbia. You can see that for more than ten years this time it sits in the same state. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'm done. I really hope that what you announced from the stands here will eventually be fulfilled and that within about a year, year and a half this problem will be resolved so that we do not have to ask the same question again and show the same pictures from ten years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u71	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Popov! In the summary to your question, you have made a retrospect of everything done so far, as the construction itself is preceded by this is the regulatory base in the country, such are the complex strengthening events that concern geodefense and landslide processes from all the activities that you have listed. So it's not a little done back in time. At the moment, rest assured, a budget is provided for the realization of the site 2 million. Three hundred and fifty thousand. lv. without VAT. At present, this is the indicative value of a project, it may fall with the conduct of the public procurement................................................................................................. I mentioned that the contract was announced on 12 May this year. We'll see if there's an appeal. The sooner the procedure is completed and the contract is signed. I mentioned, 110 days is the implementation period. The faster the landslide will be strengthened and really solved one of the serious problems in the Northwest, in particular in the Vidin region. However, we are talking here about a road that makes access and connection to the Republic of Serbia. Moreover, I am now entrusted to my colleagues from the Railway Infrastructure Agency to prepare a technology project on the entire length of the second-class road II-14 Vidin. I hope, indeed, that after providing resources at least for the current repair maybe next year, I say again, we will see, God willing to introduce the Toll system as quickly as possible, then there will be enough resources to build new sections of the Republican Road Network, I mentioned in my previous answers to questions and to rehabilitate existing ones. We're gonna do a full rehab of the entire second-rate route, not just the landslide section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u73	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was the last question for Minister Nankov. Thank you for your participation. We are moving on to questions to the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov. The first question is from the MPs Pencho Milkov and Georgi Stoilov on the construction of sewerage of the districts "Middle tower" and "Dolapite" in the city of Ruse. Which of the importers will develop the question? Here you are, Mr. Stoilov, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! For years there has been a problem with the construction of the sewer network of the two districts in the town of Ruse. In 2014, it was found that opportunities were missed to solve this problem through European funding. The citizens of these neighborhoods have protested many times over the past years. They have expressed their disagreement about the disregard of the institutions of this problem. They have negotiated with municipal and regional administrations, but there is no result of this. There is only a declaration from the city council of Ruse. Despite all this, tension and anxiety continue at this time. Over 6,000 Russians in both neighborhoods are forced to use septic pits. My question to you, Mr. Minister: Is the construction of a sewer network in the districts of "Middle tower" and "Dolapite" in the city of Ruse and based on what funding? Have any actions been taken? Can you specify within what specific deadlines this construction will be implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. For an answer the Minister of Environment and Water, Mr. Neno Dimov. Here you are, Mr. Dimov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u76	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Stoilov, Dear Mr. Milkov! In accordance with the requirements of the Waste Water Treatment Directive and Ordinance No 6 of 9 November 2000 on emission standards for the permissible content of harmful and hazardous substances in waste water, consumed in water sites for Agglomeration Ruse, a sewerage network should be built and the waste water from agglomeration entering the sewerage network should be subjected before discharge in water sites to secondary or equivalent treatment and additional treatment for phosphorus and nitrogen. The town of Ruse has a population of nearly 146 thousand. The size of the Agglomeration Ruse as of 31 December 2014 is 213 300 equivalent residents. The neighborhoods are within the agglomeration range. Of the total agglomeration load 94% is covered by the sewerage network and 6% is not provided for collection, purification by the central sewerage system. The waste water treatment plant in Ruse is built with a capacity of 240 thousand. the equivalent of inhabitants and provides secondary purification and additional purification of nitrogen and phosphorus and has the prospect and possibility of purification of all waste water from agglomeration. To ensure compliance, the sewerage network needs to be completed and the purification of the entire load of agglomeration is ensured. A contract was signed on 31 March 2016 for the preparation of a regional pre-investment survey for the water and water system in the territory of the water and water sector in Bulgaria, through the financing of Operational Programme "Environment" 2014-2020 with the contracting authority Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and with the contractor "Wattodyssin" BCO. The activities of the construction of the necessary infrastructure of Agglomeration Ruse to comply with the requirements can receive funding under Operational Programme "Environment" 2014 - 2020, including for the districts "Cold Tower" and "Dolapi" after completion of the currently developed regional survey of the Water and Water and Water" Ruse. According to the Annual Operational Programme of the Operational Programme "Environment" 2014-2020, the opening of an invitation to provide project proposals for building infrastructure water with recipients of assistance 15 consolidated water water supply, including that in the city. Ruse is scheduled for the third-quarter quarter of 2017, and the deadline for submission will be the first-second quarter of 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u77	Thank you, dear Minister. Come in for a cue, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u78	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! First of all, I am pleased with your answer, as I suppose the Russians, that the issue of the sewers of these two districts in Ruse stands on the agenda, as it is unacceptable for people in the 21st century to go to septic pits and have their houses tilted from it. Secondly, something that you said, and it is known from the information about the failed project, which I am familiar with - 94 percent of the Russians have and are included in the sewer network, and with the realization of this project only 3 percent more will join it. For this it was unacceptable for these 3% of people to say the following: We have managed with 94 percent of national funding, but because the European project has failed, you will not have a channelling network of 3%. I am glad that there is an opportunity to finance the project under the Operational Programme, but even if it is not financed under the Operational Programme and this is done with national funds, the sewerage should be built, which I hope for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. A hole? I won't. Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u80	Madam President, honourable Members! In particular, I see that colleagues from GERB are highly five people in the Chamber, but I will address them specifically. Honourable colleagues from GERB, the shortest definition of the word "shike" is a group of people united by criminal goals. In my opinion, GERB is exactly a group of people who are genuine...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u81	Well, Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u82	Mr. Kutev, I'm asking you to behave yourself in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u83	...with Bulgarian-Russian traditions, devoid of a sense of past, self-preservation in their actions. What prime minister of a democratic country could be a man who was among the leaders of the groups in the 1990s?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u84	Mr. Kutev, I'm making a formal remark! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues from GERB...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u86	I will not allow insulting qualifications to the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u87	That's right. However, I hope you understand that the words I just read are not mine. They were written in 2013 by a colleague of yours, now a GERB MEP, who last week condemned us that we had been butchered by the Bulgarians, as a Turk didn't klall them, he said. The man has written and published a whole book dedicated to you the country's elite. There, by the way, in the book of your colleague, a member of GERB, you are called real political relapseists, never realized the damage they caused to the nation. (On the first bank of BSP for Bulgaria there are placed standing three books titled Shaika.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u88	Whoever wants to read the book can buy it and read it. We're not reading rooms here. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u89	I don't read, I quote. Especially interesting is the quote in which he tells us that today we can say that the biggest failures of GERB and Borisov in particular happened right here in the selection of people. The people are you. Nothing different has been imported, but just the opposite the ladybugs flooded all levels of public government, and cases such as Boyko Borisov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Miroslav Naydenov, Rumyana Jeleva, Kalina Ilieva and hundreds more will remain in the annals of Bulgarian political science as sublimate to one of the biggest failures of the Bulgarian nation. Why in this situation did the man agree to be a GERB MP, for me remains unclear?! The more important question for me in this case is: why did you agree to put it in the lists and, respectively, make it an MP?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u90	Mr. Kutev, this is a problem of the political party GERB, not your problem. Read the declaration and how it relates to the topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u91	That's what I'm doing. I'm reading a statement. In this book there are two pages devoted to me not to think it's just you. [[(People's representative from BSP for Bulgaria..................................).............................. to Bulgaria...................................................................................................... Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u92	You're very original. Thank you. As long as I got my license, I can take your word and read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u93	You can't, it's a declaration on behalf of a group and you can't.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u94	It's on the manifest.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u95	As I say, in this book there are two pages devoted to me, in which I am quoted quite accurately. This within this work puts me, by the way, alongside Baruch Spinoza, Mahatma Gandhi and even Boyko Borisov. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u96	Mr. Kutev...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u97	Boyko Borisov is quoted for a much more negative fronting than I am.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u98	Mr. Kutev, I'll take your word for it. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u99	I pay attention to this questionable intellectually aesthetic attempt at creativity not because I suggest you read it, although we will give you the books if you want, but because I want to pay attention to the compromises you tend to make in the name of power. Unfortunately, the story of the transition is a history of unforgivable compromises that have made the political class meaningless in the eyes of citizens and, in which everyone participated, almost without exception. That is why no one today has the right to exercise power for the sake of power itself. Every power is a form of compromise. The main question of power is: what level of compromise are you willing to reach? What's your level of squeamishness that you're not willing to fall under? The red line that distinguishes you from the political sellout and that shows that power is not exercised at all costs, but only for the benefit of society.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u100	Is this part of the declaration or a quote from the book, Mr. Kutev?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u101	It's been a long time since I've been on the book. You're not listening to me clearly. The book has long been over for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u102	I'm listening very carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u103	What level of compromise do you have to be at to make a 25-year-old deputy minister of foreign affairs? As you can see, this is no longer a quote from the book. Isn't Rumyana Jeleva enough for us to understand that foreign policy is a complicated thing, especially now? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] What kind of cynicism is needed to make Valeri Simeonov Chairman of the Cooperation Council on Ethnic Issues? It's a compromise that's not even disgusting. You are making a compromise that is dangerous to the state in a very complicated environment. Just when we need a moderate and rational policy with regard to Turkey, with this appointment you are strongly removed from any ethnic tolerance. I do not know about you gentlemen of GERB, but we would not support this compromise. The implementation of the requirements of the UN Convention on Disabled Persons requires several billion leva. However, in this year's 2018 budget forecast, published only a few days ago, there is not even a minimum increase in funds for these people. What must be the threshold of squeamishness in order not to discern that public care for people with disabilities is part of our self-determination as humans?! You came with a promise of 300 leva. minimum pension, and the compromises we talked about have led you to an increase of 20 BGN. But instead, electricity, water and gas, respectively, and the prices of all goods, will increase, i.e., nominal pensioners will get less because they will be able to buy less with their pensions. And this is for a pension of £200. It's genocide! You promise stability, and the obligations of the state for the period of your last government have increased by more than 10 billion. lv. Now, with the new budget procedure, we will be talking about another 6 billion. Which country is stable when its duties increase? The debt to the international financial institutions makes Bulgaria dependent, not stable, as does our children, who will either pay the debts of this government or fulfil the conditions of the International Monetary Fund irreparably! And these conditions are usually: privatisation, freezing incomes and other policies of instability. This is no longer a coalition compromise, but a civilisational choice! With it you choose not freedom, at the expense of comfort in power! And this, colleagues from GERB, is below our threshold of squeamishness and we from BSP will be consistently against! Dear Members of the National Assembly, Bulgaria as well as the world today face key problems. The refugee wave is flooding us and it is becoming increasingly clear that a common European solution to the problem cannot be expected. Europe itself is torn apart by its old contradictions. It is already obvious that the neoliberal development model has exhausted its capabilities! It is obvious that in the last three decades Bulgaria has held the right most economic transition, which left about a million and a half of our compatriots below the poverty line! On the other hand, there are several hundred rich people, for many of whom there is no reasonable explanation for their wealth, or if there is an explanation, it borders on the Penal Code. For us, in BSP, it is obvious that this cannot go on like this! We understand our political differences and do not expect you to become defenders of the poor and the disadvantaged, but we firmly believe that with the so-called coalition compromises you will not solve any of the problems of the country and will only deepen the plagues of the transition! A million and a half Bulgarian citizens living around and below the poverty line need urgent solutions such as natural...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u104	Emergency solutions!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u105	...emergency decisions, so I said, as in a natural disaster, because they do not know whether or how they will live to see the next fiscal year! The compromises that the government is making now, and your low threshold of squeamishness, will be fatal to some of these people! Some of the people of this country that we don't help now, next year will be just numbers in sad statistics. In the previous parliamentary term Party GERB had all the political power in the country: you had a parliamentary majority, and it was quite stable; you broadcast a government; the President of the Republic in the last term was actually appointed by you. It's yours, and the vast majority of the local government. Never again in Bulgaria will there be so much power concentrated in one hand. And you couldn't change anything! None of the key problems of the transition have been solved: neither poverty, crime, nor the crisis in education, nor the demographic collapse, nor the stagnant economy, nor the immobilising whole regions of unemployment, nor the refugee crisis, nor the failed defence capacity of the army, nor the failed health reform, nor the uninitiated judicial reform. And all this happened because, colleagues from GERB, you were stuck in irresistible compromises in government! It's like you haven't learned anything! Today we are faced with the same compromises and, unfortunately, no one expects a better result! Be more squeamish with your own compromises and follow Salinger's old principle: The above ridge, masters. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Madam President, as soon as I'm done, this was a declaration by a parliamentary group, and that your deputies have written things you don't want to hear is your problem! [[World and long applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u106	We move on to the next question to the Minister of Environment and Water. Mr. Neno Dimov. It's a matter of the MP... [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Quiet, please! ... [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Quiet, please! [[(Extreme applauses from BSP for ……]] Question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov on the implementation of the Operational Programme Here you are, Mr. Chakarov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, fellow Members! Dear Mr. Dimov, according to the information that is available through the media, the implementation of Operational Programme As a programme for financing infrastructure projects, this is one of the tough implementation programmes, both financially and physically, physically. Unfortunately, as far as I know, there is a delay in implementing the provisional terms of the Programme. In the framework of parliamentary control, I have repeatedly asked questions about the course of the implementation and implementation of the Operational Programme "Environment" and about the other operational programmes for this period. Today, when we are quite advanced in terms of the time frame for the programming period, I mean that almost half the time of the programming period has passed. My question to you is: what is the implementation of the Operational Programme 2014 "Environment 2020" at this time as both physical parameters and financial parameters? At what stage is the implementation of the preconditions of the Programme and is there a danger of stopping it as a whole, that this does not happen, or that of individual axes? What is your assessment of the implementation of the Operational Programme so far? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. For an answer there is the word Neno Dimov " Minister of Environment and Water." Here you are, Minister, within three minutes to develop your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, to date the Ministry of Environment and Water has fulfilled all commitments under the ex ante terms of the Partnership Agreement for which it has been identified as a responsible institution. The Ministry is related to one general precondition and three thematic preconditions as follows: the general precondition is seven actions, but 1. the definition of baseline and target values of result indicators, based on Priority Axis 5 Action Plan. Thematic pre-condition 5.1. "Prevention and risk management: The existence of national or regional risk assessments for the purpose of disaster management that assessments take into account adaptation to climate change. Thematical Prejudice 6.1 Stimulating the efficient use of the resource. Appropriate reimbursement of water service costs. Thematic condition 6.2 "Dumpage" sector, "Promoting economic and ecologically sustainable investments in the waste sector," in accordance with Directive 2008-98/EC and with the waste hierarchy. The implementation of some of the ex ante conditions has already been reported to the European Commission and to others will be reported in the 2016 Annual Implementation Report of the GAS to be submitted to the European Commission by the end of June 2017. The thematic precondition 6.2 with which the thematic conditions are completed has already been confirmed as fulfilled to Bulgaria by letter from the European Commission of 4 February 2016. With regard to the financial and physical implementation of the Programme. 25 application procedures with a financial resource of 1.53 billion have been announced. lv. or 47% of the general budgetary framework. The beneficiaries have provided project proposals for 1.17 billion. lv. or 36%. The agreed grant amounts to 748 million. lv. from the budget, of which nearly two thirds are engaged in contracts with contractors. A total of 35 projects have been implemented under the Programme and over 100 million have been paid to beneficiaries. lv. In the initial phase of implementation of the Programme as a result of the existence of real arrangements with the contractors, there is a positive trend for a steady increase in the share of interim payments compared to those of the initials. Overall, the financial implementation of the Programme corresponds to the plans and forecasts of the managing authority and no significant deviations are observed. The progress in the physical implementation of the OPS 2014-2020 is as follows: - two waste water treatment plants are completed and put into operation in the municipalities of Radnevo and Shumen; - environmental assessments and assessments of the compatibility of four river basin management plans as well as the maritime strategy have been drawn up. With regard to the announcement of the grant procedures, significant progress has been observed, taking into account the late start of the Programme. The main efforts in its implementation are concentrated in ensuring the necessary level of negotiation, which in turn will ensure the implementation of the Programme's objectives. I can highlight two major problems. The first is the presentation for the financing of non-especially quality projects, which is why the process of their assessment is being extended. The second problem is the appeal of the procedures for selecting contractors or their termination, which slows the implementation of the projects. The choice of performer at the earliest stage would facilitate the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u110	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Chakarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u111	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Visible by the answer, as you say, the preconditions have been met. You didn't mention the situation with the waterworks, with associations, whatever pre-condition there is with regard to the water sector. We have serious concerns there. It is also good for the relevant competent department of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to move the issue forward in order to have a realization in the water sector of one of the toughest axes with extremely many projects to be implemented. I would like to express concern, and I would like to express serious concern. At the same time, I would like to say that I am not particularly optimistic about the implementation specifically on this axis and overall of the Operational Programme. I pray that I am wrong, because we need these funds, as I was saying before, to change the standard of all of us. These funds must be implemented, used to achieve the objectives and commitments that we have made. The fourth year runs from the programming period. What you have pointed out as realization and all the information you have provided tells us and tells us one thing that we have not learned our lessons and what we need to do as conclusions in order to overcome the weaknesses and errors of the first programming period 2007 - 2013 so that there is an accelerated move and implementation of this Operational Programme. This also applies to other operational programmes. Not as typical as ours in the last few years to go on a raid to absorb the funds. Our concerns and pessimism arise from the fact that the remaining time by 2020 is relatively short and the projects are heavy and bulky, difficult to realize. You pointed him out. This is also not good with regard to the subjects who apply and prepare projects, mainly municipalities. It was appropriate at this stage to submit projects that met absolutely all the requirements and standards. You've got a huge job ahead of you. We wish you luck! I assure you that we will monitor how this Operational Programme will be implemented, as well as others, because they are important to our country, they are important to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Here's your coat, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, first of all, I would like to thank you for the control you exercise and for the pessimism you express, because this is definitely a direction that will help me and the Ministry to deal with this extremely important sector. The fact is that about two thirds of the funds under the Operational Programme "Environment" concern the water sector. The fact is that there are more complex procedures there, given that the main beneficiary is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, that the direct beneficiary is the water sector. This may be the most complex and at the same time the bulky part. We are aware of this, both I and the team working under the Environment Programme, as well as the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. We hope that with joint efforts we will achieve a result so that we do not lose any euros for the Bulgarian water system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u114	Thank you, dear Minister. This was the last question to the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov. Let us thank him for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to a question to the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova. The question is from the MP Vasil Antonov on a strategy for the completion of the project for the construction of NPP. Here you are, Mr. Antonov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u115	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mrs. Minister, in the program of the government of the last cabinet Borisov in the part of the energy sector there are six priorities, of which none is for the construction of the Atomic Power Plant. From your interviews I have succeeded in extracting a sentence concerning the construction of the headquarters of Belene, that the plant should be completed in the best way and so, nothing specific, no numbers, nothing more. In the previous cabinet, where you were a minister, I also asked the same question a number of times, but there was no specific, except that you were looking for private investors to complete the project. All this is good, but we must not forget a few things. Firstly, in the Energy Strategy that you have adopted and expires 2020, it is pointed out that by 2020 there should be two new nuclear reactors built. The second thing we should also remember is that the need for a nuclear power plant is no longer just a whim, but one of the only options for a replacement reserve. The new latest rules for environmental protection are already exhausting the mode of operation of the thermal plants that we have. Another argument that we should also not forget is that we have a licensed site, a site, two reactors, and there is really no perspective on us and no clarity on how these things are going to happen. We must also remember the World Bank report, where it is mentioned that...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u116	Guide yourself to asking the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u117	Of course. ... Going towards liberalization of electricity prices, Bulgaria needs new energy capacities. Here comes my question to you: what is your strategy for building the Atomic Power Plant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. For a response.. the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova. Here you are, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u119	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Antonov! The question you are putting in relation to the NPP is always an up-to-date issue, at least in the last 15, not to say even 20 years. On what you mentioned about the construction of the site in your question, I just want to remind you that it was built back in the 1980s and is related to the first project for the construction of the nuclear power plant. It's a fact, she's in Belene right now. And something else is a fact, though. This is the old equipment for NPP Belene. Part of this old equipment in 2007 was sold back to the Russian side, respectively at much less profitable prices. What's left of it, and at present, it's on the playground. What we need to do from now on with joint efforts is to find a way to prevent such a mistake from happening again, because at present there are 3 billion. lv. Bulgaria's taxpayers' money invested in this project at the site "1.4 billion." lv. and 1,176 billion. BGN, which we paid months ago, in December 2016 for the equipment ordered in 2008. I do not agree with you that there is no text in our Management Program that is related to the nuclear power plant. If you pay attention to Part of the Energy Sector, you will see that it is clearly stated that the Decision of the Council of Ministers of 15 December 2016, which is related precisely to the Minister of Energy, to organise the preparation of a technical and economic analysis related to the project. In this regard, we have commissioned the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to prepare such an analysis, along with the need to develop proposals related to the Strategy for the Development of Bulgarian Energy. Here, by the way, I just want to remind you, as you mentioned in your article that Bulgaria's energy strategy is until 2020, but 2020 is tomorrow for energy. What I did as one of the first and perhaps most important actions was to send a letter to all parliamentary groups with a request by June 12 to present experts who will broadcast all of you so that we can within the Ministry of Energy and the existing working group from last year to create the new Strategy to develop a Strategy for the Development of Bulgarian Energy. It will be up to 2030, with a horizon by 2050. This Strategy will not be of a particular government. It will be the Strategy of Bulgaria and I therefore rely very much on your responsible position. In it will find a place and the fate of the project. But since we don't have time to wait for its development, I'm going to rely extremely much on the analysis that BAS will present. What I have as initial information is that by the end of September the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences will be ready with its analysis of the need to build NPP "Belene" and respectively the entire financial model for the realization of such a project. I've had the opportunity to mention that at this time, [[the President signals that time has run out]] One part of the equipment is already on the site of Belene and the other part is coming by the end of September. What we need to do as a first step is to take action to separate the assets and liabilities with regard to the project and launch a public and transparent privatisation procedure in order to seek an investor to invest in the realization of this so important issue that has been ahead of us for many years. I hope that's how we'll find an investor. If there is no such solution, another solution will be sought, perhaps related to the VI block of the nuclear power plant. That's what I can tell you at this point. Of course, we are waiting for the position of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to become clear. I believe that this is an independent, competent body that is not politically bound and will give us clarity on how to develop this project and whether to develop in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u120	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Antonov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, unfortunately, it is confirmed what I said and not just today that energy is chaos. What you are talking about right now shows once again that you have no clarity on how the Belene Central should be completed. First of all, you weren't accurate about the old reactor that was purchased for the Atomic Power Plant, you called it a morally outdated reactor. This reactor really sold at a certain low price, but today it produces electricity in the Underground, if you do not know. And it wasn't a Russian reactor, it was a Czech reactor, the Shcode, as I recall. The second thing I would like to mention to you is that you are talking about the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences now transferring the problem to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, but you are actually a second term minister in this cabinet. The strategy that we are commenting on, 2011 - 2020 is the first cabinet. You are implementing the strategy first, second, third cabinet. Really now we're transferring the task to BAS. I am not convinced that in this direction you should seek a solution. It is clear that you should attract experts, but this should have happened a long time ago and had clarity. In this regard, there are other things that are very annoying. The public funds invested are 4 billion for the one in Kozloduy and for the one in Belene. What should we comment on the licensed site? We've got two actual reactors. They're already with us. Here we need a quick strategy and options: to calculate what so far, how much is the percentage of the final part of the completed Central and to enable the state, or if not, to seek investors. And there are other options if the state does not have funds [[the President signals that time has run out]] I'm ending up with the funds that the investor will end up with, with part of the profits, getting 51% for this Central. It's a matter of national self-esteem, but not just a question of energy strategy, otherwise we fail. You saw how much trouble we had in the winter. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] From a large exporter and the self-esteem we have had, we have imported electricity for months at a high price so that we can cover the high energy reserve we have. I hope that we will talk about these issues again soon much more specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u122	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, I will allow myself to disagree with you again about the fact that there is chaos in energy. I can tell you that there was chaos in 2005 when the decision was made and the agreement of 29 November 2006 was signed, without it being clear what will happen without clear the parameters of the project, with what money will be financed, how it will be built. Moreover, there is a condition on which to be the performer of this project, Mr. Antonov. So there was chaos back then and now we're paying for the chaos. Last year, we paid it £1 billion. 176 million. I agree with you that we need to act quickly, but tell us how to act quickly, as the resource needed to be completed by the state such a project, and you very well know it, is 20 billion. Lev?! If you would like to propose how this could happen within the framework of these budgetary indicators that our country has, I would be grateful. Dear Mr. Antonov, I am using this case to assure you and all the MPs that the government of Prime Minister Borisov is working extremely responsibly in this direction. We will not allow the money of the Bulgarian taxpayers this time to be irrationally spent or just anyone to forget that some money has been spent on the Bulgarian taxpayers and that people expect and it is important for us to make the best, economically justified decision for Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u124	Thank you, dear Minister. This was the last question to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova. We thank her for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to questions to the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. A question from the MP Vasil Milanov Antonov on the development of relations between Bulgaria and Russia in the field of tourism. Here you are, Mr. Antonov. Two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, tourists from the Russian Federation are very important to our country. Russia and I have a common history and traditional relations. It is in the interest of the Bulgarian state to develop cooperation with Russia, especially in the field of tourism. Over 300,000 Russians own properties in Bulgaria. All this contributes to the growth of Russian tourists and is a prerequisite for increasing potential in bilateral ties. And so far, one of the sharpest problems facing the growth of tourist traffic from Russia is the visa regime. Although measures have been taken to ease the procedures for issuing visas, there are still reservations here on this issue. Dear Minister, as well as during the expired term of the National Assembly, I ask you again the same question: what is the development of our relations with Russia in the field of tourism? I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u126	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. For a response the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. Here you go, Mrs. Angelkova. Three minutes for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u127	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, on the occasion of your specific question, I assure you that the intensive and thorough dialogue that we have built and maintained with the representatives of the Russian Federation during the second cabinet of Mr. Borisov will continue and the concrete results will be upgraded with even more intensive work. In this roundup, I take the opportunity to inform the parliament that I have already had several working conversations with the Head of the Federal Tourism Agency Mr. Oleg Safonov about the preparation of an upcoming bilateral meeting, as I also held a meeting with the Russian Ambassador on the preparation of the meeting of the Bulgarian-Russian Intergovernmental Commission, which should be held by the end of this year in Moscow and the organization of a meeting of the Bulgarian-Russian Working Group on Tourism. We also discussed a joint visit on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast of the traditionally preferred children's camps to send another sign of readiness and organization for the reception of Russian tourists in our country. Russia is a strategic partner for Bulgaria in the field of tourism. Accordingly, the Ministry of Tourism has taken a number of measures regarding the Russian market, which should provide Russian tourists in Bulgaria in the short and medium term. As you know, 2016 was a record for Bulgarian tourism, as my ambition is to turn the achieved results into a sustainable upward trend. Last year was extremely successful in terms of the market Russia, with the total number of visits of Russian tourists in Bulgaria was over 580 thousand, the registered growth is almost 20% on an annual basis, which does not include Russian citizens with a second home in Bulgaria. Focused efforts and in-depth bilateral contacts with our Russian partners have led to an increase of more than 11% for the last winter tourist season in terms of tourist traffic from the Russian Federation. As regards visas, as early as February 2015, it was agreed with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ease the procedures for issuing visas for Russian citizens. The reliefs also apply to Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Armenia and Georgia. Short-term two-fold or multiple-entry visas shall be issued for organised tourism with a period of validity of up to one year for citizens who have used Bulgarian visas in previous years. The owners of real estate are entitled to short-term double or multiple visas for a private visit with a period of validity of up to one year and those who have used Bulgarian visas within the last 12 months with a period of validity of up to three years. During the intergovernmental meeting of the two countries at the end of January 2016, a Protocol on Cooperation in the field of tourism was signed. The scope of visa facilitation for citizens of the Russian Federation was extended as children to 16 years of age who come to children organized tourism in Bulgaria receive free visas. In 2016, for the first time in five years Mr. Oleg Safonov's visit to the Federal Tourism Agency was held. I am happy with the reciprocal gesture and the opportunity I had to present our country as an attractive tourist destination to the Russian State Duma. Such an opportunity Bulgarian minister had not received in the last 27 years. Thanks to the active partnership with the Bulgarian Transport Ministry, agreement was reached with the Russian aviation authorities to expand the wings of the charter flights season and in the period from the second half of April to 30 October they were carried out without prior coordination. Bulgaria also participates in a number of exhibitions - Moscow, St Petersburg, Ekaterinburg, Kazan and Samara. Bulgaria is a joint partner of the exhibitions, except in Moscow region and the Altay region, also in the Republic of Altai, the districts of Vladimirska, Orenburg, Tulska, Kaludka and so on. I want to assure you that we will continue the same high level of activity with the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u128	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Antonov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u129	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. There is certainly some effort in the direction that you mentioned. I would like to remind you that you have made commitments and mentioned several times since the beginning of the year, especially when you became a second minister for the term of office, that the increase in the growth of Russian tourists and former Soviet republics, of course, expect to reach 40%. I think I'm specific in the number. There are some mishaps, though. I wish they were single cases, but unfortunately, they're not single. For example, we quoted the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences a few moments ago as saying that researchers who come from the former Soviet republics for exchange of experience, exchange of reports, reports on specific developments are listed in this light regime and should not pay for visas. There have been specific cases since 2013. Two years in a row they have not paid visas, and for the last two years they have paid 60 euros. At first glance, it's not much, but when something happened years ago, and it's already happening the other way around, it's restrictive. That wouldn't be good for the country. Another thing you rightly noted is our participation in the International Tourist Exhibition in Moscow. I think that gave good results, and you mentioned it yourself. With regard to classical, traditional sea tourism, it is already noticed that cultural and historical routes are defined, especially the reserves that we need to look for in family tourism. You are extremely right that you have to go in the direction of other countries to go towards the release from these restrictions. I would say that this is valid not only for those countries that we have commented on, but also for our close and distant neighbours, who are not members of the European Union. I will be careful to monitor your efforts in this direction. What we can and we will cooperate, of course, with the opportunities that we have of opposition, but we insist on increasing efforts in this position to achieve higher results in terms of tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u130	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u131	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Antonov, thank you for your support and your cooperation. As I have said, we will continue in this direction, including we are already working with the Foreign Ministry on the occasion of even greater reliefs that would be possible for Russian citizens, taking into account, of course, the rules, regulations, directives of the European Union. I can assure you that this is the direction in which we work, including we are discussing with colleague Oleg Safonov jointly cultural-historic routes, also routes related to religious tourism, on which they are extremely fond. In this regard, joint visits to different regions of Bulgaria are also forthcoming. We continue to work intensively so that we can reach these numbers, which we made at the beginning of the year as a promise and commitment during the meeting I had in January this year with Mr. Oleg Safonov in Moscow. We will rely on your support and assistance so that the Russian market, which is strategic for Bulgaria in the tourism sector, can go with a positive upward trend for the success of Bulgarian tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-26.u132	Thank you, dear Minister, thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. This was the last question in today's parliamentary control. I'm shutting down the plenary week. The next plenary session is on 31 May 2017, Wednesday at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
