ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members, allow me to present to you a Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for the period 18 October 2017, which we discussed at the Conference of Presidents and now I present to your attention. 1. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 2 October 2017. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Special Intelligence Means Act. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, on 13 September 2017. Adopted at first vote on 27 September 2017. 3. Selection of Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. The selection procedure is in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 20 September 2017. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. General Draft drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs, on the basis of the draft laws adopted at the first vote on 7 July 2017 with importers of the National Assembly of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 10 May 2017; MPs Plamen Hristov, Albena Naydenova and Polina Tsankova on 12 May 2017; MPs Danail Kirilov and group of MPs on 30 May 2017; MP Hristian Mitev and group of MPs on 4 July 2017. We're going to continue our work yesterday. 5. New discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by the National Assembly on 27 September 2017, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 198 of 6 October 2017 to the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria We propose to be the first item for Thursday, 19 October 2017. 6. First voting on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Council Regulation (EC) No 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used for the application of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2017. 7. First vote on Bills amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. The first bill is with importers Yordan Apostolov, Boris Yachev and Hristian Mitev on 5 September 2017; the second draft is with importers the People's Representative Dragomir Stoynev and a group of MPs on 21 September 2017; and the third draft is with importers the People's Representative Zapreyan Yankov and a group of MPs on 27 September 2017. 8. First voting of draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports with importers the People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 19 September 2017; the People's Representative Mustafa Karaday and a group of MPs on 21 September 2017; the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov are importers of the third Draft on 27 September 2017; and the fourth Draft is with importers the People's Representative Boriana Georgieva and a group of MPs, on 28 September 2017. 9. Parliamentary control. Please vote. They voted 185 MPs: 161, against 1, abstention 23. The work programme has been accepted. Messages: Bills and draft decisions for the period from 11 October 2017 to 17 October 2017. On 13 October 2017, a Law amending the Roads Act was adopted. Importer is the People's Representative Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, as well as to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 16 October 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health and Safety at Work was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as to the Committee on Health. On 16 October 2017, a bill on payment services and payment systems was introduced. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, and to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Once again on 16 October 2017, a Draft Law for ratification of the technical agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Supreme Chief Command of the United Armed Forces of NATO in Europe (SHAPE) has been adopted, providing support by the host country to activities of allied forces in the context of joint forces with a very high degree of readiness. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Defence is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as to the Committee on Foreign Policy. On 13 October 2017, by letter from the President of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds received an interim report from the Commission on the completion of the programmes co-financed by European Union funds and the countries of the European Economic Area during the 2007 programming period, as well as the progress made on the programmes for the programming period 2014-2020, according to data on 30 June 2017. According to the letter, the report is located in the "Documents" section on the website of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The letter was sent by e-mail to all MPs. Those who wish can also get acquainted with the report on paper at the Library of the National Assembly. The National Statistical Institute has received information about the indexes of consumer prices for September 2017. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I suggest a t. 8 off the agenda, due to the following arguments. Just a few days ago, the new Law on Physical Education and Sports entered parliament, and has already been assigned to our Commission. The law begins to be seen on November 1st. Of these four suggestions there are many sensible things in the four, but there are also great weaknesses. We, as Parliament, are in danger of rejecting these proposals. It is good for them to enter between first and second readings in the new Law. So my suggestion is to drop this item from the agenda and just look at these four LEDs in the new Bill. Because, you know, it's ridiculous to look at four PIDs in the current law on physical education and sports, given that in just a few days we start looking at the new one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u3	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Is there a reverse opinion? I can't see. Please vote on the proposal made. Vote 181 MPs: 107 against 66 abstentions 8. The motion is accepted. We move on to consideration of the items on our agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE DANISH-EXECUTIVE PROCEEDING CODEX. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce to you the President of the Commission the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask for a procedure under the Bill in the Chamber to be admitted to Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Natalia Cherneva, Ms. Anna Bachvarova, experts "Taxical Policy" at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Alexander Georgiev, Deputy Director of Executive Director NAP and Rosen Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u5	Vote for admission to the Chamber. Vote 154 MPs: 151 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to take their seats in the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u6	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 702-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 October 2017. At a meeting held on 12 October 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 702 01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 October 2017. The amendments proposed in the Bill shall specify the provision of art. 87, para. 11 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, and for the purposes of the complex administrative service it is stated that in addition to the National Revenue Agency, the Customs Agency and the municipalities will also provide information about the existence or absence of obligations by electronic means. In this way, persons will be exempted from the obligation to provide the competent authorities with a certificate of existence or absence of obligations issued at their request by the National Revenue Agency, the Customs Agency and the municipalities in fulfillment of obligations provided for in other regulations. § 2 of the Bill proposes to waive the obligation before the removal of a sole trader from the Commercial Register is notified to the National Revenue Agency, which is a measure to reduce the administrative burden. In this regard and in view of the introduction of other measures to reduce the administrative burden for persons with transitional and final provisions of the Bill, proposals for amendments to the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses, the Law on corporate income taxation, the Law on local taxes and fees, the Law on value added tax and other regulations have been made. The proposed Bill also introduces the rules of Council Directive (EU) 2016/2258 of 6 December 2016 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards access by tax authorities to information on the fight against money laundering. The time limit for transposition of the Directive is 31 December 2017. In accordance with Directive (EU) 2016/2258, by § 1 of the Draft Law is granted the right of access to information and documents collected in the framework of the due diligence carried out by the debtors under the Law on measures against money laundering, transposing the rules of Directive (EU) 2015/849, to information on the measures applied for complex customer verification and to information on the actual owners of legal persons and other legal entities. The changes envisaged in the draft act will not be related to expenditure for citizens and business representatives. Following the discussion, the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance expressed their principled support for the proposed draft by concluding its discussion with the following results: The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 702-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. The next report is from the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Will it be presented by the President of the Commission or not? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u8	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 702-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 October 2017. At its meeting held on 12 October 2017, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, No 702-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 October 2017. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Financial Policy Directorate. The draft was presented by Mrs Petkova, who stressed that the main objectives of the draft regulatory act are the need to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses, and the introduction of Council Directive 2016/2258 of 6 December 2016 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards the access of tax authorities to information on the fight against money laundering. In order to achieve the first priority, changes are proposed to specify the provision of art. 87, para. 11 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, and for the purposes of the complex administrative service it is stated that in addition to the National Revenue Agency and the Customs Agency, the municipalities will also provide electronic information about the existence or absence of obligations to persons who should provide a certificate of existence or absence of obligations issued at their request in the execution of obligations provided for in other legal acts. Part of the changes proposes to waive the need to notify the National Revenue Agency prior to the deletion of a sole trader from the trade register, which is a measure to reduce the administrative burden and is motivated by the fact that the natural person is in charge of unlimited liability for his obligations as a sole trader. The bill provides for amendments to a number of laws, including the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Accounting Act. In order to relieve taxable persons who did not operate within the meaning of the Accounting Act in the relevant tax year and who do not submit an annual report on their activities, they should also be exempted from submitting an annual tax return under the Corporate Income Tax Act. The proposed amendments to the Accounting Act provide for an exemption from the obligation to announce in the Commercial Register the annual financial statements of undertakings which did not operate during the relevant period. In accordance with Directive (EU) 2016/2258, the Bill confers the right of access to information and documents collected in the framework of the due diligence carried out by the debtors under the Law on measures against money laundering, transposing the rules of Directive (EU) 2015/849, to information on the measures applied for complex customer verification and to information on the actual owners of legal persons and other legal entities. The provision of this power to the revenue administration is linked to the need for effective control of the quality of the information, which is subject to the exchange for tax purposes. During the discussion of the Bill, a question was asked by the National Representative Dora Hristova about the binding of the proposed changes in the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. 12, para. 9, with an unaccepted bill on measures against money laundering. Mrs. Petkova explained that the reference was made to prevent the initiation of a criminal procedure with regard to the Bulgarian state for an unsaved period of time for transposition of European legislation, but will be in line with the adoption and entry into force of the unaccepted legislative act. Following the discussion and the vote held: with 12 votes in favour, without the opposition and 4 abstentions, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposes that the National Assembly adopt a draft amendment to the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 702-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Gusheva. A report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government has also been submitted under the Bill. The report will present the President of the Commission, the People's Representative Iskren Veselinov. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u10	Honourable President, honourable Members, I present to you: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 702-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 12 October 2017, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 702-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 October 2017. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Tax Policy Directorate at the Ministry of Finance. The main changes proposed in the Bill are related to reducing the administrative burden on citizens and businesses by removing the requirement to provide some official paper-based certification documents. In this regard, the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill are proposed and amended the Law on excises and tax warehouses, the Law on Corporate Income Tax, the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, the Law on Value Added Tax and other regulations. The proposed amendments to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees are aimed at easing administrative service and increasing control in carrying out the annual vehicle technicality checks, and the tax check will be carried out through access to an automated information exchange system. In relation to complex administrative services, it is envisaged that, when providing information on the existence or absence of a person's obligations to the municipality concerned under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, no fee shall be payable. The Commission was given an opinion by the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, expressing principle support for the proposed amendments to the Bill, including the amendments to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. In the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria are made concrete remarks and motivated proposals for further changes and clarification of certain provisions of the Bill which aim to achieve a level playing field between state and local authorities administering tax revenues and increasing their collection rate. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 8 votes for the Council of Ministers and 5 votes for the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, proposed to the National Assembly that a draft amendment and supplement to the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 702-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers, be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u11	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we are going to debate the presented Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? There are no preliminaries, so I'm asking you again, I'm looking around the room. Are there any statements on the presented Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the proposed bill. We are voting for a motion for a decision adopting a decision approving the bill: The Council of Ministers HAS DECIDED Approves the draft law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code; He proposes to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the Bill under the heading of the National Assembly. 1. The Minister of Finance shall present the Bill under paragraph 1. 1. Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev Please, voting mode, we are voting on Decision No 567 adopting the bill amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. They voted 145 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 43. The bill amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code was adopted in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVES. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Special Intelligence Act No 754-01-55, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 13 September 2017, adopted on the first vote on 29 September 2017. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u13	We vote on the title of the Bill. They voted 130 MPs: 125, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u14	According to paragraph one has a proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov, made in accordance with the order of art.83, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of paragraph only: I'm the only one. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 shall be added at the end for a period of 5 years. 2. A new para is being created. 2: The President may be reassigned to the same position only for a further period of 5 years. 3. Previously on AMC's... 2 and 3 become respectively. Three and four. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it, et cetera. 4 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 And in it the words are said. The first paragraph is replaced by the following: Five o'clock. 6. Previously on AMC's... 6, 7 and 8 become respectively. 7, 8 and 9.................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u15	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u16	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In relation to paragraph one, first, I am proposing a separate vote on item. 1 of the paragraph of t. 2 The newly created para. 2. What are my motives? The text of the Special Intelligence Means Act in its article. 19c should sound as follows: The State Agency is headed by a President appointed by a decree of the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Council of Ministers for a period of five years. In this way, it will become uniform in practice, because there is indeed a gap in the Law and the President has no mandate, is not limited in the time in which he can perform this position. With this proposal, in practice, we will align his mandate with that of the State Agency "National Security" because the State Agency................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You even know there's a directorate in the DANS. What is made as a proposal in the new para. 2, with which we disagree and announced it at the very first reading of this Bill, it is practically possible for the President to be reassigned to the same position for another five years, which brings it together as opportunities with the Chairman of the State Intelligence Agency. However, these two agencies have many different functions as opportunities, such as meanings, as powers. That's why I'm making this proposal. We hold on to our proposal because we supported this Bill at first reading precisely in order to fill in the emptiness of the Law, but it runs out only with para. For a period of 5 years, what is recorded is 1........................................................................................ As I propose, for a term of 5 years, before the We also made a proposal to the Commission for Control of the Services. Two down. It has not been supported by this proposal in the Commission, which is why I am also doing so in this House for a split vote on this. 1 and the new para. 2, et cetera. 1 shall be added at the end for a period of 5 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u17	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to start by saying that I support my colleague Popov and we continue to hold on to this proposal. I will take only and only in terms of t. 2, para. The President may be reassigned to the same position only for a further period of five years. What do we mean because, in my opinion, the reasons for such a proposal are insufficient? Firstly, the State Agency is essentially a service whose status of the President and of the Service itself cannot be compared to that of the State Agency. The colleague Popov already pointed out the fact that it is closer to the State Agency, where there is a Directorate of Technical Operations and more than that of intelligence. Thus, fellow Members, think carefully, we are creating a status through the Chair of the Agency, in a service that is becoming a mega agency. And, on the other hand, we ignore and insult the status of Bulgarian scouts. Let us be aware of the people working under high-risk conditions, most of them abroad, with an insufficient budget, and apart from the dangers they are suffering from the security environment, are also subjected to the powerful impact of local services. I see the transparency of such an intention. This man, who is currently head of the State Agency, now has a mandate of four years. If now a five-year term is given, after five years another five-year term and his term becomes 14. In fact, I was surprised you didn't want the term to be life-saving. Let us be objective, fellow Members, let us not forget that in the Commission, the report of this service has not been adopted, with sound reasons, and let us be aware that when we want to give office status, it does not mean that we should settle a certain person in this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u19	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Are there any other statements? I don't see any requests. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Philip Popov for a separate vote on para. 1 and para. 2 in the proposed Bill. Vote 156 MPs: 59 against 70, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Popov's proposal for an editorial amendment in para. 1 for the addition of the preposition to the text for a period of 5 years...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Please vote. Vote 158 MPs: 60 against 67, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on a single paragraph in the version of the Commission. Vote 160 MPs: 114, against 36, abstention 10. The proposal is adopted, and thus at second reading and the Law amending and supplementing the Special Intelligence Means Act. Honourable Members of Parliament, we proceed to the next item on the agenda: SELECTION OF THE GENERAL DIRECTOR OF THE BULGARIAN TELEGRAPHIC AGENCY. With the report of the Committee on Culture and Media, Mrs. Sawateva will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Access procedure on grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please allow the candidate to be the Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency Mr. Maxim Minchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u21	Please vote for admission. Vote 138 MPs: 135 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Minchev to the hall. Please, Mrs. Sawateva, introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u22	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Culture and Media on hearing the proposed candidate for Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency Maxim Hristov Minchev At an open session held on 12 October 2017 and aired in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Culture and Media Commission held a hearing of the proposed candidate for Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency under Section V of the adopted Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly (promise, SG No. 77, 2017), hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. A proposal for Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency for Maxim Minchev from the National Representative Toma Bikov was received in the National Assembly. Mr. Vezhdi Rashidov, Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media, noted that the required documents, according to Section I, are presented to the proposal. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. According to Section III of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission's opinion on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army is that at present there are no documents establishing the belonging of Maxim Hristov Minchev to the authorities under art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. As a result of an inspection carried out by the Directorate-General for Civic Registration and Administration at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, it is found that the candidate for Director-General is of Bulgarian citizenship and has no legal restriction. The proposal for the candidate, together with all documents, has been published within the specialized website on the website of the National Assembly. Members of the Culture and Media Committee, having become convinced of the regularity of the documents, have begun hearing the proposed candidate. National Representative Toma Bikov presented Mr. Maxim Minchev's candidacy and outlined his undisputed qualities as Head of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, his activities as Secretary General of the World Council of Information Agencies and President of the Association of Information Agencies from the Balkans and South East Europe. In his presentation Maxim Minchev emphasized on the implementation of the main policy of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency as a national information leader, the raising of the international prestige of the country, as well as the policy towards Bulgarians around the world. He pointed out that the National Agency paid special attention to video news and news of a regional nature. The candidate highlighted as the Agency's main mission accurate, fast, impartial and non-false news. In the discussion of the application for Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency took part the MPs: Vezdi Rashidov, Diana Savateva, Spas Gurnevski, Krasimir Bogdanov, Chavdar Velinov and Boryana Georgieva. A unanimous support was expressed for Mr. Minchev's candidacy and the questions asked he answered thoroughly. On the basis of the hearing held, the Committee on Culture and Media proposes to the National Assembly to examine and vote under Section VI of the Rules of Procedure the proposed application of Maxim Hristov Minchev as Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, to which the draft decision is attached to this Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Under the rules of procedure for the selection of Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, importers have the opportunity to submit their proposals within two minutes. Here you are, Mr. Bikov, to make your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I suggest that we support Mr. Maxim Minchev's candidacy as Chairman of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. Mr. Minchev was born on 5 June 1953 in Sofia. He graduated from journalism at the University of Lvov, Ukraine, in 1976. He was a NATO scholarship student in Brussels, fluent in Russian and English. He has worked as a deputy editor-in-chief in the Bulgarian National Radio as editor and leading editor in Radio Free Europe. He was an editor in different newspapers and magazines. Mr. Minchev has more than 2500 publications in the daily and periodical printing, more than 1500 analyses, reports and comments in the electronic media. He is a member of the Union of Bulgarian Journalists, the Union of Bulgarian Writers and the International Organization of Journalists. Since 2006 he has been Chairman of the Association of Bulgarian Media around the world. Since 2016, he has been Secretary General of the World Council of Information Agencies, President of the Association of Information Agencies from the Balkans and South East Europe, and of the Association of Information Agencies from the Black Sea Region. Since 2003 Maxim Minchev has been Director General of BTA. In December 2017, his first 5-year term expires under the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency Act. The undisputed professional qualities and high authority of Maxim Minchev make him a worthy candidate for the responsible post of Director General of BTA. Out of these motives, I would stress that only a few months ago, this Parliament adopted with full unanimity the BTA's 2016 review, which was a kind of assessment of the work of Mr. Minchev and the Culture and Media Committee last week with full unanimity supported his candidacy, which I think is sufficient motive to support this candidacy in plenary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u25	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Under the procedural rules, following the submission of the applicant, we shall proceed to a debate on the proposed application. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to take part in this? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The group of the United Patriarchs is supporting Mr. Maxim Minchev's candidacy because we believe that this media, which he has managed for so many years, is one of the few that is really involved with the problems of Bulgarians abroad. What BTA and he have personally done over the years, namely these meetings of the Bulgarian media around the world, is something that other Bulgarian media should be involved in. The fact that BTA made correspondent centers in Bosilegrad and Taraklia is also indicative that the Bulgarian telegraph agency does not really share Bulgarians from Bulgaria and Bulgarians from abroad, but cares for everyone. We believe that the example that was given by BTA should be an example of BNT and Bulgarian National Radio, namely to make their correspondent centers wherever compact Bulgarian communities live. That is why we support this BTA policy and Mr. Minchev's policy, which he has led for so many years, and we will support his candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u27	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Are there any lines to Mr. Angelov's statement? Here you are, Mr. Rashidov. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I would like to say a few words about Mr. Maxim Minchev. There's something that's very interesting and it's nice to hear in the room. Let's put aside that he was elected president of the World Media Association, and that means he's a valued and respected man outside. But I must say, we've worked in the years when I was Minister to hear it. Using the cultural centers that the Ministry of Culture and the State has in many countries in Europe, we have worked very hard and actively not only for promotion and for good, clear and honest news about Bulgarians who are abroad, but the main, great role of Maxim Minchev was that this news should reach European citizens for everything that concerns the dignity of the Bulgarian state. Because very often the media broadcast such information, which brings a bad name to Bulgaria and negatives to the Bulgarian state. The only agency currently working to promote the positive that is happening in the Bulgarian state, for what is quality, good, for everything that changes Bulgaria is BTA. And this is thanks to Director-General Maxim Minchev himself. We also unanimously support Mr. Minchev, God willing, to develop this media and to bring more and more prestige to the Bulgarian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u29	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Any other MPs? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Everything that has been said so far has also been discussed in the Commission. After the brilliant concept presented by Mr. Minchev, we all united around the fact that his candidacy is worthy of the Director of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. As Mr. Rashidov said, it is nice to hear some things in the hall. It is nice to hear that BTA is an oasis and that in BTA there is no fake news.. something that we all suffer from, the whole society in Bulgaria. The BSP group for Bulgaria will support Mr. Minchev's candidacy because we are really impressed by what he presented to the Commission. We wish him success and, of course, to expand the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency has our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Are there any other Members of Parliament to take part in the debate? I don't see any requests for speeches. I'm closing the debate. Under the Rules of Procedure, the candidate shall have the opportunity to make a statement to the National Assembly after the deliberations have been concluded. Would you like some, Mr. Minchev? You have this opportunity, so I must invite you. You won't take advantage. Thank you. We are going to vote on a decision proposed and annexed to the Commission report, with the following text: Project! DECISION on the selection of Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 10, para. 1 and 2 of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency Act HAS DECIDED He elected Maxim Hristov Minchev as Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency for a term of 5 years. Please vote. They voted 141 MPs: 141, no opposition and no abstentions. [[Applause.]] The motion is accepted. Mr. Minchev was elected Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. In accordance with art. 12, para. 2 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency at its election the Director-General takes an oath before the National Assembly. Mr. Minchev, come to the stand and repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u32	I vow in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and to perform my duties in good faith as Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency by guiding myself by the principles laid down in the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. I swore! [[Applause. Members of parliament greet Mr. Maxim Minchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u33	Thank you. Dear Members of the National Assembly, after this solemn moment we move on to the business work on: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR DELEGATION AND ADVISION OF THE CIVIL PROCEEDING CODEX Mr. Kirilov, please present the Report. Dear MPs, as you recall, Paragraph 35 of the Bill was reported yesterday. Due to the expiry of the time of the meeting, we have interrupted to continue today with statements under § 35. There were requests for speeches: I think, Mr. Milkov I don't see him in the hall, Ivan Ivanov proposed a break, I think. You have the opportunity to take reference to the wording of § 35. Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! While the opposition speakers are preparing, I would like to remind you that § 35 regulates the non-severable minimum. By § 35 we have a proposal in three ways. We also have an amendment that has been proposed by the Commission. Option I "I" text of importer, version II "I" text of importer, variant III "The proposal which I recognize as a proposal of colleagues from the Political Party GERB, variant IV " proposal of Plamen Trifonov Hristov and a group of MPs, and a proposal from the Commission. The Commission supports the version of the importer for option III and proposes the following version of § 35, which becomes § 42: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 446 para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: ) (a.k.a. I'm not gonna read one. Point 2 says that t. 1 of para. 1 is canceled. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 is the proposal to amend t. 2: "2." if the convicted person receives amounts from the minimum wage up to 600 BGN. one-third of the top if it is without children and one-quarter if it is with children it endures; and one-quarter if it is with children it endures; and one-third of the top if it is without children, and one-quarter if it is with children it endures; and one-quarter if it is with children it endures. We commented with our fellow importers, we are inclined, instead of the editing proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, to support the version of our colleagues from Volja. I propose that we support the proposal of our colleagues from Volja, together with their editing, as made by Plamen Trifonov Hristov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u35	This was an application to support an already submitted option. We are not going to vote on this as your proposal, but it was a call for this option.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u36	Dear Mr. President, if I may, I would like to make it clear that, in this situation, a split vote on the options will probably be required, so please accept that I am proposing a split vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u37	I'll put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u38	I point out that we will support option II, which belongs to colleagues from the Ministry of Justice, together with the editorial proposal of Mr. Plamen Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u39	Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Indeed, the subject concerned by art. 446, is very important because currently working texts are practically not applicable because, you know, the minimum wage, when this thing was accepted, was 220 BGN. Since then, it has increased many times. I understand the approach both the Commission and my fellow Members have that this provision of the Code must be changed. In this case, we have introduced the so-called option "I" in which we propose that the non-secessible minimum be determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers, as this is the most working option for us in view of the almost annual change of the minimum income, which is determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers. As early as this year, it is clear that the request that the majority responsible made the minimum wage to increase to BGN 510 will to a large extent render this new proposal ineffective. In practice, we will see ourselves in a situation next year to change the Civil Procedure Code again. In general, this approach, which has been set up and supported by the Legal Committee, could to some extent have been changed, but in order to save time for Parliament and more adequacy of the decisions taken, it is more normal for this thing to pass through the Council of Ministers. Here the topic is more controversial, and we hold, of course, if it is adopted by the House, the decision to enter into force IV option, to remain points 5 and 6 of our proposal, of the so-called Here we have recorded it: "The income from remuneration, other remuneration for work or pension up to the amount of the minimum wage and "When it is apparent from the basis for the amounts received on the debtor's bank account that the latter are non-segregable income within the meaning of para. 5, the bank shall notify the court contractor of the reason for the failure to comply with the security message. To date, I repeat, we have dozens, hundreds of cases when this kind of income is seized, the bank does not respond in due time, and we place the debtor in the uncomfortable situation then he leads cases to be returned to him precisely these funds. I hope that both the Members of this House and the Members of the Legal Committee will understand this approach as correct because, leaving this provision unexplained, we are giving a very wide field again for the involuntaryness of incomes that should be guaranteed under debtors' Law. The arrangement, even in its changed form, is once again becoming ineffective and we are not defending the debtor in any way. That's the goal, you know, of the non-secvisible minimum of the debtors to have income to ensure at least their threshold of existence. Such a provision would actually protect him. Again, I would ask my colleagues to consider whether it is not more working option to let the Council of Ministers set this non-secvestible minimum precisely in view of the annual increase of the minimum wage, because in the text proposed to be supported, it is written that the ceiling will be 600 BGN and the expectations that are set in the election program of the government are that this ceiling will be passed in just one or two years. In that case, we will be in a situation to amend the Law again. This is a more working option, much easier for both debtors and creditors, naturally, and the legislator, but think about it. I think it's very important and I'm making a procedural proposal. 5 and 6 to be included in the proposal, which was approved by the Legal Commission and was made by Mr. Kirilov. Again, this is a firm way to protect debtors from such abuses on their guaranteed income by the demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines to the statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, as a whole I also approve of the principle, which is also laid down in your proposal, option I, and I believe that it is not very different from what we have proposed. What worries us is that you are assigning to be defined by the Council of Ministers in the current legislation the rocks are also defined, i.e. they are not self-regulating, but fixed as numbers. I note that when the current legislation entered into force, the minimum wage was 220 BGN. You understand that up to now it should have been updated, but it is not. We are worried that if we accept the Council of Ministers to update, it may also be delayed in time. That is why we propose that an automaticism of the rocks themselves should be regulated with the increase of the minimum wage. I support your proposal to add t. 6, which would impose additional obligations on the banks, which is a great idea and is a mistake on our part that we didn't include it. I would like to draw your attention to the substance of the matter. 5 which is embedded in your version is also embedded in ours because our version regulates what happens with salaries that are above the minimum wage. That is, in our version, the minimum wage is, if I may say so, inviolable. In principle, I agree with you. 6 to join our proposal and we would support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u43	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I am taking a line because we do not accept the approach to transfer this work to the Council of Ministers. Yes, the Council of Ministers issues many acts, but I support the arguments in all the discussions that were on this issue that this is the work of the legislator that he has to do. It is true that here the challenge is to find the right tool, to give an accurate criterion for determination. That is why we will support the proposal of our colleagues from Volja. Yes, and the minimum wage is determined by the Council of Ministers. I don't want to politicize here. It is not a question of transference of responsibility here, but the Civil Procedure Code is the procedural act which regulates all civil relations on a procedural basis. It is therefore appropriate not to wait and not apply any decree of the Council of Ministers. We specify the following: although in a different way we have come to similar decisions, what our colleagues in Volja are commenting on. You hold your paragraphs 5 and 6, which is the behavior of a bank in terms of performance on income from wages and similar. We've put it in a proposal for a new article. This is the next paragraph. There, in five paragraphs, we develop the behavior of the bank in determining the non-secessibility and possible dispute in this regard. The Commission has adopted this is the next § 36, our proposal. I think it can be supported because we've tried to make it more detailed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u45	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Does he have a back-up, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleagues Hristov and Kirilov, you do have your reasons, but in the end I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the binding of a non-secvesable minimum with the minimum wage still attaches us to a decree that the Council of Ministers issues in relation to the minimum wage. The upper limit that you have set is 600 BGN, I expect it to be crossed very soon. For this reason, it is precisely for flexibility and for a faster response, so that we do not have to go through the whole legislative process, that we have made the proposal and that it is regulated by an act of the Council of Ministers. I agree that the practice so far has always been to be anchored in the Civil Procedure Code, but in view of the dynamics of changing the minimum wage, our proposal has also been dictated. About what you shared about art. 446a, yes, we do. I took a detailed look at the lyrics. Indeed, it is largely responding to our proposals, because the objective there is the practice that we have at the moment. The demands to be able to block precisely this type of non-secessable income of debtors, to cease. I also hope that the court will then apply them in disputes, and the banks themselves will apply them in practice to stop this vicious practice from blocking benefits from pensions, minimum wages and so on. Your proposal, Mr. Kirilov, we accept it and understand that it is in support of our proposal. But I would ask you once again to reconsider the approach that we have with regard to the determination of a non-severable minimum with a decision by the Council of Ministers. Again, this is in view of the dynamic change in the minimum wage per year. Six hundred leva upper limit in my opinion will be passed very soon, and we will literally have to amend the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Just to clarify your opinion. I take it that you withdraw the proposal that points 5 and 6 be added to the text of the Commission in view of the wording of art. 446a, who solves these questions?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u48	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u49	I'm not putting him to the vote. Are there any other MPs willing to take the floor? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are also inclined to support option II of our colleagues from the party. I notice in their proposal that they have given a rock that is suitable, but only in t. 4 have recorded that the corresponding size for the top is retained when the four-time minimum wage is obtained. Before that, I didn't see whether it was the top or the full reward? I see that colleagues from GERB and in the Commission's version we are also talking about a top. Therefore, it is good to specify in the scale on what will this difference be held on the top of the minimum wage or on all the remuneration received by the person concerned? So I suggest, if we may, that we clarify it now and make an editorial amendment to the texts regarding the top. If it is not possible to do so right now, to postpone the adoption and voting of these texts, to make the editorial amendment and then come back. If you think it's possible at all and suggest such an editorial amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u51	Mr. Popov, you are discussing editorial amendments in version II, paragraph 1, item 1. Four, right? This is Volya's proposal. Anyone else? Mr. Mitev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am glad that there is such evolution on the part of colleagues from GERB in the face of colleague Kirilov regarding the option to be adopted. Yes, really setting a minimum wage base is a good objective criterion. We have a similar proposal, which is contained in option IV, only there the step is between one, two, respectively three and over three minimum salaries. We wouldn't mind accepting the proposal of Volja. The specification with regard to Option I must be made here. Why is this not a good decision? The decision is not good for the simple reason that the acts of the Council of Ministers are subject to control of legality. This act may be attacked in a Supreme Administrative Court and revoked if we move towards such a way of determining the non-segregible benefits received from pensions. I believe that this proposal is not appropriate for this reason. Moreover, the legislative settlement gives a much greater degree of legal stability, and also the wage bet on the minimum wage as a criterion gives the conditions for objectivity. With regard to paragraphs 5 and 6 of Option I, I believe that the proposed authorisation in § 36, with the creation of a new text, is a solution to the problems posed by BSP colleagues in Option I. I join in what my colleague Popov said about the top. There really must be such a editing of the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u53	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other Members of the National Assembly wishing to take part? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm using as a procedure a statement because I failed to respond to Mr. Popov. I want t. 4 which you noted was missed, to read all of it, to make it clear that there is no such miss: "4." if the convicted person receives a monthly remuneration of more than four times the minimum wage, the top above the two times the amount, Mr. Popov, of the minimum wage. I mean, it's definitely the top above the two-times. That's all I wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u55	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Are there any lines to Mr. Hristov's statement? I can't see. Dear Mr. Kirilov, after these proposals can we proceed to the vote? There's been an offer. Is work needed to improve the editing?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u56	I think we're ready.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u57	We are ready to vote as they are proposed. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Of course, I will put this proposal to the vote. Thank you. We are voting on Mr. Kirilov's proposal to vote separately on the proposed options for a new text of art. 446. Four have been tabled by parliamentary groups and one text proposed by the Commission. Please vote on a proposal for a separate vote on the text. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. We vote separately the options that stand the attention in the Second Voting Report of art. 446. We vote option I of § 35. We specify: it is submitted by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. They voted 122 MPs: for 31, against 26, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on option II, for which there is a proposal of the National Representative Plamen Hristov to make a change. First, we vote on the proposal of the National Representative Plamen Hristov for a change in version II of § 35. They voted 124 MPs: 121, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote option II with the already voted amendment proposal by the MP Plamen Hristov. Vote 131 MPs: for 131, against and abstention there is no. The proposal put forward by the parliamentary group of the party Voljya "Option II" has been adopted. I put to the vote option III submitted by the parliamentary group of GERB. They voted 131 MPs: for 4, against 1, abstention 126. The offer is not accepted. I'm voting option IV. They voted 125 MPs: 15 against 3, 107 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote proposals by the Commission the last version of the text of art. 446. Vote 128 MPs: 12, against 3, abstention 113. The offer is not accepted. Option II has been accepted for a new text of art. 446 with the editorial amendment of the National Representative Plamen Hristov, which was also accepted. This remains the final text.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u58	Paragraph 36 "Searchable income received by an account in a bank'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 43.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u59	Statements? I can't see. Please vote. Vote 127 MPs: for 123, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u60	Paragraph 37, option I, by importer, option II, by importer. The Commission shall support the version of the importer for option I. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option II and propose the following version of § 37, which shall become § 44: ..................................................... Art. 450a is amended as follows: "Electronic back-up on a bank account's claim Art. 450a. (1) A claim on a debtor's claim on an account in a bank shall be imposed by a judicial contractor by means of an electronic secure communication signed with a qualified electronic signature sent electronically by means of a uniform environment for the exchange of electronic supports. The amount to be reported shall be the amount to be reported in the balance sheet. (2) The support message, the reply of the bank, the notice to lift the arrest, the confirmation of the received message and other messages concerning the imposition, execution and lifting of the lien shall be thrown for received by the addressee with their withdrawal from the middle of para. 1. (3) The Minister of Justice shall issue a decree setting out the requirements for the middle of para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements? I won't. I'm voting § 44. They voted 123 MPs: 104, none, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u62	Under § 38, there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov, made in accordance with Article 38. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 453 is created It's five o'clock. leases and leases, as well as any agreements providing the use of movable and immovable property.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposed text of § 38 on the report. They voted 123 MPs: 119, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u64	According to § 39, option I and option II. The Commission shall support the version of the importer for Option I and Option II and shall propose the following version of § 39, which shall become § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 454, para. 1 the words "30 per cent" shall be replaced by "20 per cent."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u65	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Please vote. Vote 120 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u66	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 47. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 41 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u67	We'll vote them separately. I shall put to the vote the text supported by the Commission for § 40, which shall become § 47. They voted 122 MPs: 103, none against, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. We vote on § 41 with the Commission's proposal to reject § 41. They voted 121 MPs: 113 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u68	Under § 42, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u69	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 42 on the Commission proposal, which shall become § 48. They voted 122 MPs: for 121, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u70	Under § 43: Option I There is a proposal from the MP Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Kirilov, Alexandrova and Fikirliyska. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for Option I and Option II and shall propose the following version of § 43, which shall become § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "75 per cent' are replaced by "85 per cent'. 2. Paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6 shall be inserted: For determining the value of the items under art. 474 para. 5 The court contractor is obliged to appoint an expert. The selling price of movable goods cannot be lower than their insurance value when there is one. This rule shall not apply to subsequent sales of the same property. (4) In the first sale notice, either Party may challenge the price of the object to its designation by the court contractor and request a new assessment with the appointment of an expert. The Tribunal shall set a time limit for the submission of the costs. (5) The bailiff shall carry out a new assessment of the property where the country within the term under para. 4 has paid the costs for the new expertise, such as in the cases of para. 2 and 3 appoints other or more persons of interest. (6) The determined by the order of para. 4 and 5 new valuation is not subject to challenge.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Do you have the floor for speeches, fellow Members? There aren't any. I shall put to the vote the text for § 49 on Article 49. 468 on the Commission proposal. They voted 123 MPs: for 123, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u72	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u73	Statements on the proposed text? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for § 44, which shall become § 50. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The proposal for § 44 is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u74	Under § 45, there is an offer of an importer option I, Option II. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for Option I and II and shall propose the following version of § 45, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 474 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words "movements" shall be added to the list of items or groups of belongings. 2. In para. The fourth sentence of the sentence shall be replaced by the words "sales and art. 521" shall be replaced by "sales" and "sales" shall be replaced by the words "sales" and "sales" shall be replaced by the words "sales" and "sales" shall be replaced by the words "sales" and "sales" shall be replaced by the words "sales" and
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the Legal Commission, discussing the issue of the text of this provision, we added and I am glad that Mr. Mitev recognized what I said in the Legal Commission.... that law deals with the term "built goods." The importer had only proposed that the court contractors should be able of their own free will to group the items which are subject to public sale and offer them as groups, and in law there is no definition of a group of property groups while there is a definition of groups. In view of this, I welcome the inclusion of "coitus" in the text, but again I express my concern and to you how will the grouping of items under subjective criteria be applied in practice by private judicial and civil judicial contractors? Grouping can make things either unsellable or change their price to a large extent. We all know that the common is by no means equal to the forming parts. There are always changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u77	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Come in, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It's a short statement. It aims to support the analysis that Dr. Milkov has done with a view to the debate of the Houses and the collections of belongings. We have provided for the broadest opportunity in terms of the possibility of making public sale of movable goods. We believe that this is in favour of implementation in order to speed up enforcement proceedings and achieve the satisfaction of creditors more quickly. The aim of my speech in this regard is to say that this is one of the first steps we are taking in order to specify the implementation of executive tools in relation to individual subjects. Here we expand and specify with regard to movable items. Next, you will see a separate establishment and a commercial enterprise, then you will also see provisions regarding the shares available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u79	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 45, which shall become § 51. They voted 126 MPs: 126, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u80	Paragraph 46 "Introduction text'. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 46, which shall become § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: In the case of items referred to in para. Article 1 shall not apply. 468 para. 4.... 6..........................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u81	You have a say in this? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on a proposal from the Commission for the revision of § 46, which becomes § 52. They voted 126 MPs: 126, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u82	Under § 47, there is a text of an The Commission does not support the version of the importer for Option I and II of § 47 and proposes to be rejected. Option I: ss ss s s s s s In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 10 is amended as follows: When the tender is declared not to have taken place, a new tender shall be held in accordance with para. 1... 9....................................................... 2. They're creating an al. 11 and 12: The price of the object of the new tender shall be set at 80 per cent of the starting price of the previous tender. (12) When the goods are not sold after the second auction, the court contractor shall declare the sale not to be done, release the item and transmit it to the debtor. If the debtor is not present, the item shall be handed over to the guard, and if the item has not been surrendered for custody, it shall be left at the place of sale to the debtor. Option II: ss ss s s s s s In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 10 is amended as follows: When the tender is declared not to have taken place, a new tender shall be held in accordance with para. 1-9. 2. They're creating an al. 11 and 12: The price of the object of the new tender shall be set at 90 per cent of the starting price of the previous tender. (12) When the goods are not sold after the second auction, the court contractor shall declare the sale not to be done, release the item and transmit it to the debtor. If the debtor is not present, the item shall be handed over to the guard and if the item has not been handed over for custody, shall be left at the place of the seller at the disposal of the debtor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I put to the vote both Option I and Option II for § 47, which the Commission does not support and propose to be rejected. They voted 132 MPs: 98, against 2, abstention 32. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u84	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u85	Statements? I won't. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission for § 48, which becomes § 53. Vote 131 MPs: for 107, there is no objection, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u86	Under § 49, there is a proposal of the MP Christian Mitev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MPs Danail Kirilov, Anna Alexandrova and Yordanka Fikirliyska. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 49, which shall become § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 485 is amended as follows: "Determining the starting price for public sale Art. 485. (1) The bailiff shall appoint an expert to determine the value of the property. The person concerned must be entered in the Register of Independent Evaluators under the Independent Evaluators Act or in the list of specialists established as property persons under the Law on the Judiciary. (2) The conclusion of the expert shall be communicated to the parties which may challenge it within seven days. In the dispute, the country refers to an expert who meets the requirements of para. 1 to draw a re-conciliation and bring costs for its implementation, otherwise no re-conciliation shall be carried out. (3) In two or more valuations the value of the property shall be determined as an arithmetic mean of all valuations. (4) The starting price of the property from which to start the bidding shall be 80 percent of the value of the property. (5) The rules of para. 2 and 3 for determining the value of the property shall apply only at the first public sale. (6) The starting price at the first public sale shall not be lower than the tax valuation where such is determined. (7) The rules of para. 2, 3 and 6 shall apply only in the case of the first public sale.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u87	You have the floor to speak. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u88	Mr. President, honourable Members, I take the floor mainly to make a proposal for an editorial amendment to the wording of this provision by proposing an amendment to § 54 of the report. I suggest: 1.Alinea 5 to cancel because it duplicates partially with para. 7. 2. Allinei 5 and 6 to become respectively para. 5 and 6, as al. 6 to be amended as follows: The rules of para. 2, 3 and 5 shall apply only in the case of the first public sale. Otherwise, outside the proposal for an editorial amendment to the Commission's text, I would like to point out that this text provides for the possibility of the so-called protection of the debtor against the assessment of the property and we are doing arbitration adjocing these assessments, thereby saving the judicial appeal and preserving the speed of enforcement. At the same time, we believe that we guarantee that the price of execution is reliable, which is close to the market price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u89	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other statements? I can't see. My fellow Members, I am voting on the version made by Mr. Kirilov of § 54 on the report. The proposed version shall include the following: 1. Alinea 5 to cancel. 2. Previously on AMC's... 5 and 6 to become respectively para. 5 and 6, as al. 6 is amended as follows: The rules of para. 2, 3 and 5 shall apply only when the first public sale is carried out. I'm voting on Mr. Kirilov's motion. Voting mode. They voted 129 MPs: 121, none, abstention 8. The proposed version by Mr. Kirilov of § 49, which becomes § 54, has been accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 49 together with the newly adopted version proposed by Mr. Kirilov, which becomes § 54. Voting mode. 130 MPs voted: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I give the floor to Mr. Bogdanov for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I take the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "United Patriarchs" and at the same time as Chairman of the Friendship Group between Bulgaria and Albania in the Forty-third and Forty-fourth National Assembly. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, last week the Albanian Parliament adopted the Law on the Protection of National Minorities in the country with 102 votes for the country, 10 votes against the country, and 1 abstention. With this law, the Albanian state officially recognises the existence of a Bulgarian national minority in Albania, along with eight other minorities in the country. This undisputed success of Bulgaria was achieved with the outstanding long-standing efforts of many institutions and personalities. It restores the historical truth, brings a devastating blow to the historical forgeries and laboratory created national doctrines and, most importantly, it rehabilitates this nearby but almost unknown to many of our countrymen Bulgarian community. And the Bulgarians in Albania have been an integral part of the Bulgarian ethnic land since the early Middle Ages. During large periods they were in the composition of the First and Second Bulgarian Kingdom. There are important spiritual and enlightened Bulgarian centers, such as Devol and Berat, related to the activities of St. Nicholas. Clement and St. John's Day. Naum. Here are the final struggles against Byzantium to preserve the Bulgarian state independence at the beginning of the X1st century. The lands of Golo Bardo and Mala Prespa are recognized as Bulgarian under the Sanstefan Treaty. After the Berlin Congress, Bulgarians from these regions continued the revolutionary fight against the Ottoman authorities. After the imposition of the Serbian regime in Macedonia, Bulgarians and Albanians together participated in the Ohrid-Debar uprising. The violent events and wars of the first half of the 20th century changed the map of the Balkans. The independent Albanian state is emerging. In 1932, according to a resolution voted by the Second Balkan Conference in Istanbul, Bulgaria and Albania signed a final protocol stating that the Albanian delegation recognises the existence of a Bulgarian minority in Albania. Due to the change of governments and the coming World War, the resolution has never been ratified. After 9 September 1944 under the influence of external forces, the People's Republic of Bulgaria abandoned the care for the Bulgarian minority in Albania for the benefit of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia, part of the Yugoslav Federation. An active process of Macedonianisation is under way, mainly of the Orthodox Slavic population of the Korcan region. However, much of the Bulgarians retain the memory of their ethnicity. The research and publications on history, language, folklore features of this community of representatives of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Bulgarian higher education institutions, Macedonian Science Institute, NGOs and many Bulgarian and Albanian scientists also contribute to this. According to different estimates, between 50 and 150 thousand live in Albania today. people with Bulgarian self-consciousness in the region of Mala Prespa and the region of Korca, Golo Bardo, Gora. Thousands of Bulgarians also live in the big cities inside the country... Elbasan, Tiran, Drach, Berat, Vlora, Kukus, Peshkopia. After 1990 they established several organizations such as the Cultural Enlightenment Company Ivan Vazov, the Cultural Society of Golo Dendo Prosperity, the Friendship and Cooperation Club of May 24, the Association for Albanian-Bulgarian Friendship. Three Bulgarian Saturday and Sunday schools were opened. In Tirana the school is named after the revolutionary Hristo Botev. There are schools like this in Korcha and in Bilista. The Orthodox temple was restored in the village of Steblevo. Nicolas. A number of cultural and enlightened events are organized for 3 March, 24 May and other Bulgarian holidays. Over the years, the issue of the rights of the Bulgarians in Albania has been asked to visit Bulgaria by the former presidents of Albania Sali Berisha and Bujar Nishani; when visiting a Bulgarian parliamentary delegation in Tirana, before the leadership of the parliament of Albania in 2015; between the friendship groups of the two parliaments; before the Ambassador of Albania to Bulgaria His Excellency Mr. Kiriyako Kuretta. At these meetings, the Albanian side says it will implement all recommendations regarding the protection of national minorities and in view of the country's prospects for EU membership. The big breakthrough comes on 15 February 2017, thanks mainly to the efforts of MEPs Andrey Kovachev and Angel Dzhambazki. The European Parliament in Albania's Annual Progress Report calls on it to recognise the Bulgarian minority in the country. A Draft Law on the Protection of National Minorities was introduced in the Albanian Parliament at the end of April of this year. In it the Bulgarians are not referred to as such. At this moment, Bulgarian organizations in Albania are submitting applications for inclusion of Bulgarians in the Draft Law. Due to extraordinary parliamentary elections in Albania, the law remains for consideration by the new parliament. The Bulgarian organizations again submit applications accompanied by a petition on behalf of more than 3,000 people who state their Bulgarian ethnic origin. Resistance against the recognition of a Bulgarian minority expresses only the representatives of the so-called Macedonian capitalist, which creates the paradox in a sovereign state to oppose the recognition of another one. The talks of the Prime Minister of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov with Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama on September 28th, Ms Ekaterina Zaharieva with Albanian Foreign Minister Ditmir Bushati, the call of the National Assembly Foreign Policy Committee to Albanian colleagues, the contacts of individual MPs, the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad have a serious impact on the position of the Albanian country and ultimately on October 13, 2017. The Albanian Parliament adopted the Law on the Protection of Minorities, including the amendment with which Albania officially recognises the Bulgarian national minority. Congratulations to the efforts of the Bulgarian companies "Prosperit Golo dendo" with President Hadji Pyrusi, the leadership of the Albanian-Bulgarian Friendship " with the leadership of Dimitar Pandovski, Ervis Taluri and Yani Nikola, to all our compatriots from across Albania; congratulations to the Bulgarian scientists and researchers who promoted the cause of the Bulgarians in Albania; to the efforts of the Bulgarian representatives in the European Parliament, the Foreign Ministry and the Prime Minister Mr. Borisov, the MPs Julian Angelov, Boris Vangelov, Krasimir Bogdanov, the Chairman of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad Petar Haralampiev. The recognition, ladies and gentlemen of the Bulgarian national minority in Albania from the Albanian Parliament is a historic moment. It shows the Albanian state's European approach to all minorities on its territory, proves the friendly feelings between the peoples of Albania and Bulgaria, opens up Albania's path to European integration, but, above all, honourable Members, proves once again that we Bulgarians are strong and achieve our national goals only when we are united. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u91	And thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. I am convinced that all MPs, regardless of their belonging to the parliamentary groups, welcome the progressive decision of the Albanian National Assembly and take into account the importance of this truly historic moment. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, we continue with texts from the Civil Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u92	According to § 50, version I by importer, version II by importer. The Commission generally supports the version of the importer for Option I and II and proposes the following version of § 50, which becomes § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Commission considers that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and is incompatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 the words "for what amount' are replaced by "are there any established at the time of the ban on limited property rights entered in claim applications, forbidden and rental contracts'.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u93	You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposal for the amendment of § 50, which becomes § 55. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u94	According to § 51 "Important version I, importer version II, importer version III test. The Commission shall support the version of the importer for option II and III. The Commission supports, in principle, the version of the importer for option I, i.e. 2 and does not support t. 1. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 51, which shall become § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The second sentence of the second sentence shall be replaced by a single bidding proposal and a third sentence shall be deleted. 2. Alinea 3 is canceled. 3. In para. The second sentence is created: "The hopeful proposals may be withdrawn at the latest within this time limit.' 4. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: supposed bids by persons who are not entitled to take part in the public sale, bids for a price below the starting price, as well as proposals exceeding the starting bid by more than 30 percent are invalid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Ladies and gentlemen, since there are three options proposed by the importer, option II and option III are supported by the Commission, and from option I, item 1 is not supported by the Commission, so I will put to the vote option I, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 11 against 24, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 51, which shall become § 56, as proposed by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 84, none, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u96	The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 52 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u97	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 52. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u98	Proposal by the National Representative Hamid Hamid for a new paragraph art. 491b with the following text: In the case of administration and transfer of the archive under the order of art. 33 of the Law on Private Judicial Contractors, in cases where part or all of the documents in a particular enforcement case are missing, the receiving judicial contractor shall act on the revocation of the collateral and the deletion of the prescribed prohibitions at the request of the debtor, or a third party who owns the prohibited property in the case of written evidence submitted that the obligation has been repaid after having notified the applicant in writing in the case and has not challenged within 14 days the authenticity of the documents submitted. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u99	Statements? I don't see Mr. Hamid in the room, which is also an importer of the proposal. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Hamid Hamid Hamid, not supported by the Commission. They voted 113 MPs: 5 against 53, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u100	Under § 53, there is option I by importer, version II by importer. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for p. 1 of option I, etc. 1 of Option II. The Commission supports this. 2 of Option I, etc. 2 of Option II. The Commission proposes the following version of § 53, which becomes § 57: ...... 57............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Reg. 492 3 is amended as The buyer shall be obliged, within two weeks of its announcement as a buyer, to submit the price offered by the buyer by subtracting the amount paid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 53, which shall become § 57. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u102	Under § 54, there is option I Proposal of the MPs Pencho Milkov and Christian Mitev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission generally supports the version of the importer for option I and does not support it for option II. The Commission proposes the following version of § 54, which becomes § 58. ... § In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 493, p. 1 is finally added: the bider, when the bider is a demander, is reduced by the amount of one call.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Dear colleagues, because the importer has proposed two options. Option II is not supported by the Commission. I shall put to the vote, first, the Commission's non-supporting option. They voted 112 MPs: 11 against 73, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 54, which shall become § 58. 110 MPs voted: 103, against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, with the next paragraph, we have until recess of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u104	Under § 55, there is option I by importer, version II by importer. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the version of the importer for option I. The Commission supports the version of the importer for option II, i.e. 1 and does not support it in t. 2. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II, i.e. 2. The Commission proposes the following version of § 55, which becomes § 59: ............... 59................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 494 para. The second sentence of the second sentence is replaced by the second sentence of the second sentence of the communication.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Firstly, I am voting on the proposed option II, which the Commission supports in this regard. 1. and does not support it in t. 2. I put to the vote non-supports in point. 2 option II of the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 9 against 70, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission of § 55, which shall become § 59. Vote 95 MPs: 93 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I am announcing a recess until 12.00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u106	Please take your seats. We continue with the adoption of a second reading of the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Here you go, Mrs. Alexandrova. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u107	Under § 56 there is an importer text, a proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 56, which shall become § 60: ........................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The first sentence of the 495 sentence of the first sentence of the first sentence of the first sentence of the first sentence of the first sentence of the first sentence of the first sentence of the first sentence of the first sentence of the first sentence of the first sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the first sentence of the second sentence of
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements on this point? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Voting regime for the Commission proposal for § 60 in relation to art. 495. Vote 73 MPs: 68, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u109	The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 57 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u110	Are there any speeches on this point? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 57 to be rejected. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u111	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 58, which shall become § 61. ......... 61..................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 498 is In addition, the Commission considers that the measures in question do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 2 shall also apply to persons who have entered leases and leases after the first mortgage, as well as to all agreements providing the use and management of the property.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u112	You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposal for amendments to § 58, which becomes § 61 in conjunction with art. 498. 90 MPs voted: 72, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u113	............... 59................................................................... Section II shall be established in Chapter forty-third with art. 501a "Department II "Electronical public tenders The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become § 62.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u114	You have the floor to speak. Mr. Bojankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We welcome the idea and concept of conducting electronic auctions, but it has become clear in the Commission that such a system has not been built, that is to say, the texts that we are adopting are blind and we would like to see first how this system will be created, how it will function and then support it. For these reasons, we will abstain at this stage.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u116	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Any lines to the statement? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My remark regarding the speech of colleague Bozhankov is as follows. Colleague, if the text is adopted and supported, we adopt the legal regulation of electronic public tenders. In the Transitional and Final Rules, we foresee obligations for the Ministry of Justice to do two things and we have given two deadlines. Within 12 months to issue a regulation implementing these rules and 18 months to launch and operate such an electronic system for public tenders. And, basically, we think this is the right procedure. I had talks with the Minister of Justice on Monday. She says it includes this part of the project under the OPSP for funding and that it will follow the deadlines that are on this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u118	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. A hole? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u119	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov, for your comprehensive response. I hope everything with the system goes smoothly. I say this for reasons, because my personal experience was with an electronic system in waste management, which caused a lot of controversy among the professional community and it actually turned out that the regulation regulates something, but it does not function well, and my concern was not to get something like this here. I hope the events develop according to what you said.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u120	Thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the text supported by the Commission for § 59, which becomes § 62. They voted 107 MPs: 87, none against, 20 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u121	Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev for the creation of § 59a. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Danail Kirilov, Anna Alexandrova and Yordanka Fikirliyska to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 63: .............................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 507a: support of account Art. 507a. (1) The debtor's bank account shall be secured up to the amount of the debt in the performance case. (2) Where the court contractor has admitted manifest disproportionateness within the meaning of art. 442a, he shall be responsible under Article 442a. 441.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any speeches on this point? I won't. We are going to vote on the new § 63 as proposed by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u123	Under § 60, there is a proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev in accordance with Article 60. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for p. 1 Option 1 and Option 2. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for p. 2. The Commission proposes the following version of § 60, which becomes § 64: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 508, para. 1 in the text before t. 1, the word "three-day' is replaced by "one-day' and is created. 4. "4." If the debtor is not a debtor, the bank in which the account is opened and the amount of the amount is transferred to the debtor's bank account, the bank in which the account is opened.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. My fellow Members, first of all, I will put to the vote the Commission's non-supportive text of the importer on this point. 2 in option II. They voted 115 MPs: for 4, against 80, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendment of the Commission to § 60, which shall become § 64. Vote 117 MPs: 115 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u125	Under § 61, we have a proposal from the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova in accordance with Article 61. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 61, which shall become § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 512 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: The third debtor shall inform the bailiff of the circumstances under art. 508, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. Previously on AMC's... 2-6 becomes respectively. 3-7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u126	Thank you. Statements on this point? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote the proposal for amendments to § 61, which shall become § 65 on a proposal from the Commission. 120 MPs voted: 117, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u127	Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 66: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 515 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentences are created second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh sentences: in case the court contractor does not find the securities in holding of the debtor, the court contractor invites the debtor to hand them over within two weeks. For the securities transmitted to him, the court contractor shall draw up a protocol. If the debtor does not hand over the securities within the given deadline, the court contractor shall empower the applicant who requested execution of the securities to submit an application under art. 560 for their disabling. In the case of a decision to disinfect the securities, the court contractor shall carry out a sale in accordance with para. 4 on the basis of the judgment of annulment. In case the debtor in the order of art. 564, para. 1 deposit the securities to the court or to a bank, the court terminates the proceedings for annulment and orders the securities to be transferred to the court. In the event that the application for annulment is challenged by a third party which declares sole rights to the securities, the order referred to in Article shall apply. 544, para.2. 2. In para. 2 sentences fourth, fifth and sixth are created: "If the court contractor cannot find the shares or bonds available and the latter are not voluntarily handed over by the debtor under para. 1, the court contractor shall order the company to issue a duplicate of the same on the basis of which the execution is carried out. In the event of refusal or omission of the management body of the company to issue a duplicate, the court contractor shall impose a fine under art. 93, para. 1, t. 3 and empowers the applicant to submit an application under art. 560. In this case, the order of de-collateralisation of securities shall apply respectively to the names of the securities available. 3. In para. 4 sentences 4 and 5 shall be created: "When execution is carried out on the basis of a decision to disinfect securities, the buyer shall be legitimised before the company and to third parties with the order of award entered into force. On the basis of an award decree, the buyer may request that a duplicate of the securities be issued to the management bodies of the company.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 66. They voted 119 MPs: 99, none, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u129	Proposal of the MPs Daniel Kirilov, Anna Alexandrova and Yordanka Fikirliyska. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission proposes to create a new § 67: ................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 517a: "Execution on a separate part of an undertaking Art. 517a. At the request of the applicant, implementation may also be directed at a separate part of an undertaking within the meaning of § 1a of the Additional Provisions of the Commercial Law. The sale of a separate part shall be carried out in accordance with the order of the public sale of a property.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u130	You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. Voting procedure of § 67 on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 119 MPs: 95, none, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u131	ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Chapter forty-five is created with art. 518a: "Chapter forty-five" "Execution of rights on premises of industrial property of the debtor." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 62, which shall become § 68.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u132	Are there any comments on the proposal made? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for § 68 in relation to art. 518a. They voted 113 MPs: 90, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u133	By § 63, we have option I The Commission does not support the version of the importer for options I and II and proposes that § 63 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u134	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Legal Commission did not accept the proposals made by BSP and by "Volja", if I am not mistaken, for changes in art. 519 para. 1 which aims to prevent the execution of property, property and claims on public state or municipal property. Outside of the technical part of the debate that has taken place, I will ask you for your support on these texts, as you know the frequent cases that there are and the great public tension that is caused by foreclosures or stand-ups on similar public or state property, especially when it comes to whole municipalities, which find themselves with secured accounts by the private judicial contractor. There are enough ways to satisfy the legitimate interests of the demands without this measure. I therefore ask you to support option I or option II of the proposed report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u136	- What's the line? There are no lines to Mr. Zarkov's statement. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the proposal made in option I, not supported by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 33, against 48, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on option II - also unsupported by the Commission. They voted 113 MPs: 34 against 47, abstentioned 32. The proposal for option II is not accepted. And now I am voting on the Commission proposal, which does not support options I and II and proposes that § 63 be rejected. They voted 113 MPs: 79, against 34, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u137	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64, which shall become § 69.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u138	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal for § 64, which becomes § 69. They voted 109 MPs: 109, none against, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u139	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 65, which shall become § 70.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u140	Statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposal for § 65, which becomes § 70. 110 MPs voted: 109, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u141	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u142	Any suggestions? I won't. Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the division. Vote 112 MPs: for 111, against none, abstained 1. The motion is accepted. Will you continue, Mr. Kirilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u143	The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 66 and proposes to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u144	Statements? I can't see. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal § 66 to be rejected. Vote 109 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u145	The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 67 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u146	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for § 67 to be rejected. Vote 108 MPs: 91, no objection, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Proposal of the MP Hristian Mitev and Anna Alexandrova according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the version of the importer for option I and II and shall propose the following version of § 68, which shall become § 71: seventy-seventy-seventy-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six. Within 6 months of the entry into force of this law, the Minister of Justice shall issue the ordinance under art. 450a, para. 3..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u148	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal for § 68, which becomes § 71. They voted 114 MPs: 94, none, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u149	Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 69, which shall become § 72: ................. 72................................................................. (1) Within 18 months of the entry into force of this Act, the Ministry of Justice shall establish the online platform for electronic public tenders. (2) Within 12 months of the entry into force the Minister of Justice shall issue the ordinance under art. 501a, para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u150	Statements? I can't see. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposal for the amendment of § 69, which becomes § 72. 110 MPs voted: 98, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u151	The Commission shall in principle support the version of the importer for option I, II and III and shall propose the following version of § 70, which shall become § 73: .............................................................................. Public sales announced until the entry into force of this law are completed in the current order. In cases where public sales are declared non-performing, the new starting price shall be determined by the order of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u152	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposal for the amendment of § 70, which becomes § 73. They voted 114 MPs: for 107, against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u153	Paragraph 71 "Instruction text'. Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 71, which shall become § 74: ................ 74.................................................................. The pending proceedings in cassation complaints submitted until the entry into force of this law shall be dealt with in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u154	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 71, which shall become § 74. They voted 118 MPs: 118, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u155	................. In the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 163 is created. 4 " with the content indicated. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 72, which shall become § 75.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u156	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote § 72, which becomes § 75. They voted 120 MPs: for 101, against 19, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u157	Paragraph 73 "Investigation text', Option I and Option II with regard to item II. 5. Then we have a proposal from the MP Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 and 4, and c. Two and three are withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 3 a t. One and two are withdrawn. Proposal by the MPs Danail Kirilov and Christian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the importer's text on the e.g. 1 et c. 4 letter................................................................................. The Commission supports, in principle, the importer's text on the point. 7. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for p. 2, p. 3, p. 4 (b) (i.e. 5, Option I and II, t. 6 and so on. 8. The Commission proposes the following version of § 73, which becomes § 76: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Private Judicial Contractors (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 para. 5 is amended as follows: The private court contractor may present any invitations, communications and responses in connection with civil law relations and, at the order of the court, messages and subpoenas in civil matters. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) c. 2 the number bb) is created t. 5. It's five o'clock. deprivation of service for good; (b) the creation of para. 3: The punishment referred to in paragraph 3 shall be as follows: 1, t. 5 may be imposed on a private judicial contractor, to whom there are three or more disciplinary penalties in force, at least one of which is under para. 1, t. 4. 3. Article 81 is amended as follows: The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation Art. 81. The advance charges payable on the execution of maintenance claims, of a worker in employment relationship, for the transfer of a child, as well as for the award of public state and municipal claims for collection under art. 2, para. 2 and 3 shall not be imported by the applicant but shall be collected by the debtor. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 84, para. 1 shall be added at the end of the application.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u158	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Undoubtedly, these texts in the GPC were one of the most anticipated, because more than 10 years had been trying to master the court performers, to be disciplined and respected under the Law to stop their complete iniquities. We must make it clear that despite these amendments, this will not happen. This conversation on the subject is not the last one. It will continue from this point on, because in the beginning the Institute of Private Judicial Artists is anachronism in Bulgarian law, as it is laid, as are its basic principles and principles. The Institute of Private Judicial Contractors was introduced in early 2007 or 2008, when it was sharing the liberal wave. It is a typical fruit of liberal perceptions and views in law. Then he had the idea, it wasn't abandoned, it was mentioned from time to time, of privatization and of prison activity, of the execution of punishments. Thank God it didn't, because we'd be facing much worse problems. The process that is competitive, to which performance is a continuation, cannot be given into private hands and carried out by figures, by persons resembling business entities. For this reason, there will always be lawlessness, because profit is being pursued here, economic effect is being pursued. An activity that is typical, classical for the state. The execution of the punishment is thrown to privates. It is practically privatized. Never by sanctions will business operators be stopped from seeking and carrying out their main objective of profit. From this point of view, we from the Ataka for many years have made proposals for the liquidation of the Institute of Private Judicial Artists. The law also knows the other institute of state enforcement. Their figure must be filled with content in the future, to think about it. I warn you, I warn you that the problem has not been solved. The citizens will continue to suffer. The lawyers here understand very well what this is about. I risk attracting the storms, the resentment of the private court performers who are a powerful lobby, we need to be aware of that as well. At first, their intentions were much more radical, in the end our position softened and came to what will for some time exist as a solution, but it will not fulfil its historic role. I will remind you that once the judicial institution was called.. Judges and performers............................................ was called.................................................... The people who carried out this function were judges who continued the competitive process, the lawsuit in its other phase, its second phase. She's the executive phase. One phase cannot be carried out on the principle of competition, on the principle of state custody, coercion in any respect and after the final judgment or judgment, be thrown into a phase that is quite different in character, in a sense, in a sense, in a sense, and has another genesis, other roots, another meaning, another meaning. I finish with the words........... we will be facing the problem again..................................................... we will be facing the problem again.................. not imagining that we have solved it. We're throwing a little ash into society's eyes that we're doing something, but that's not the end of the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u160	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines to Mr. Shopov's statement? I won't. Are there any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I first put to the vote the Commission's non-supported texts of the importer for this. 2, p. 3, p. 4 (b) and (c) 5, Option I and II, t. 6 and so on. 8. They voted 136 MPs: for 31, against 59, abstention 46. The proposals have not been accepted. I am now voting on the text supported by the Commission for the revision of § 73, which becomes § 76. Vote 138 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 28. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u161	The Commission does not support the version of the importer for Option I and Option II and proposes that § 74 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u162	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal options I and II of the importer for § 74 to be rejected. They voted 133 MPs: 95 against 35, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u163	The Commission does not support the version of the importer for Option I and Option II and proposes that § 75 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u164	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With these proposals under § 75 was made one, unfortunately, unsuccessful attempt to find a relatively easy solution to a rather severe and complicated problem. This is the problem with the so-called "eternal debtor." However, the texts proposed in practice will neither solve the problem, but on the contrary will deepen it. It is high time, honourable Members, that we accept and fulfil the European requirements to focus on drafting and adopting a Law on the bankruptcy of individuals. This is the key to solving this problem. Here our proposed version, which, thank God, the Commission has not been supported by either option, and I call on the MPs to support the Commission in their vote, namely those two paragraphs to be rejected. In practice, only natural persons and unsecured claims are mentioned here. Well, what claim, in particular the claims of the banks, is not secured? On 100% they are always secured with a bet, a mortgage or other means by guarantors and so on, so this is basically, a hole in the sea. Nothing can be done by this text, even if it was accepted. Therefore, perhaps the banks, when we had this discussion, did not object to these texts, but strongly objected when I spoke about a Law on the bankruptcy of individuals. This is the key to solving the problem. There is such legislation in Germany. There, by the way, about five years have been discussing this problem to find its lasting and symbolic solution. We have been discussing this as a problem here in Bulgaria for a long time. We're making some attempts, obviously unsuccessful, and I think it's high time we took a step in that direction. We will therefore vote on the Commission's decision to reject these two paragraphs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u166	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Colleague Popov, the texts were not supported because of opposition objections, which we value and respect, and not because of your claim that a private bankruptcy law is needed. The texts were not supported because they did not receive support at the Scientific Theoretical Conference, which we relied on to a large extent to support both the doctrine and the caselaw. We have decided to respect the considerations that ten years is a short term at the current speed of justice, and this can lead to the temptation of debtors to hide long and long. I would like to strongly object to your claim that the Law on the bankruptcy of private individuals would be a solution. I beg you not to lie to your constituents! Please be sincere, direct and honest! This Law will create slaves in the state. Explain this to your constituents with a social attitude and do not mislead them that this is a solution. Here we will stick to the proposal that scientists and judges have made, that is, looking for a third sensible option. To look for an existing possibility that still exists in the GPC and could develop. Let's give the debtor who feels pressured to let go of this pressure, going to the district judge, declaring, declaring all the property and limiting his responsibility to this. It's a nice institute. It's also in the current Civil Procedure Code. Unfortunately, it's not used. My over-debtors write to me from London, and they account for why wouldn't this Law be passed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u168	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Popov, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that my arguments and the arguments of our fellow Members, in practice, coincide with those of the scientific community with regard to the Civil Procedure Code and the texts that you have proposed. Regarding the Law on the bankruptcy of individuals, I strongly object to your reply and allegations that we are lying to people. I do not see in Germany, as I mentioned, that there is a slave, as you have spoken. It is very important what will be written in this Law, dear Mr. Kirilov, and it should be accepted. An example I give you in Germany has solved a similar case very simple and simple, of course, in accordance with all the legislation. There, after a natural person declared bankruptcy, two years or a year, this is now a matter of reasoning, in theory, of research, of analysis, against this person cannot form executive cases, to impose foresights, prohibited on his property. It gives him a breath of air, so that he can subsequently repay the loans and loans to his creditors. That's it, that's it, I'm just setting it as an example. Of course, it must be analyzed, it must be very well developed and it must comply with all Bulgarian legislation. I say this because you are once again trying to look for an easy way to solve this problem, and this is obviously not the case with the necessary analyses. The first step we should take, because for a long time we have not taken it, is to do these analyses and to see how best we will be able to Implicate the so-called Law on the bankruptcy of individuals in Bulgarian law. And please do not mislead the House, but also the honourable viewers, the Bulgarian citizens, that it is about slaves. No way, because now the eternal debtor is practically becoming a slave to its creditors, no matter what they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u170	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u171	Dear Mr President, it has undoubtedly been stated by both the President of the Legal Committee and by fellow Members on the left that the text currently under consideration will not be supported. In other words, the proposal of the Legal Commission to reject this text will be supported. Somehow the colleagues on the left raised the issue of the bankruptcy of individuals. Dear colleagues, Mr. President, in 2013 from this House colleagues from BSP spoke that they have developed and will submit a bill for the bankruptcy of individuals. That didn't happen. In 2014, they reiterated in this House that they are ready and will submit a bill for the bankruptcy of individuals. It didn't happen either. And now we're going to start talking again about how, you see, German experience should be imported, I don't know what kind of experience. This did not happen then because the simple question had to be answered: and who will pay the Syndicates, who will check whether this individual, declaring bankruptcy, has or has no property? An expert or trade union, as you like to call it, must make the appropriate assessment. The debate is beginning to make some other sense about something someone has spoken about, has not done, continues to speak. Well, it's typical of BSP colleagues, but let's not politicize the debate. I take this opportunity to propose, after it has been stated that the decision of the Legal Commission to reject the texts will be supported, please put to the vote to end the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u172	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u173	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't know if it's in the form of a replica or a reverse opinion, but I would essentially like to give back an opinion. The debate is worth it. Just because we won't accept these texts doesn't mean the problem will disappear. The problem for the people who are destroyed under the debts exists. It is no coincidence that both the Chair of the Legal Commission and all of us are most likely to have received in our mailing messages with question marks: Why do you accept this text? Why are you rejecting him? If you reject it, what will you do? That's why it's worth having this debate. That we have mentioned that we have different ideas, developments over the years, I think and believe that other parties have, is quite normal. It has been mentioned here that this process took several years in Germany. He's not easy. Of course there are the interests of the Syndicate and a bunch of problems. It is not a coincidence that the bankruptcy procedure and the Commercial Law is one of the most complex. Not being easy doesn't give us the right to neglect him. Remember, at first reading from this tribune, it was stated that almost the text we propose, if we accept it, we will make it a revolution, as it has been put many times to debate in this House. This time we won't accept it. Okay, we're not gonna accept this, but let's start a conversation that solves the overdebted problem of individuals. That's my opposite offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u174	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Two proposals have been made: a proposal to end the debate by Mr. Lazarov, and a proposal to continue the debate. I put to the vote Mr. Lazarov's proposal to end the debate on this point. They voted 132 MPs: 83, 27, abstention 22. Debates on this point are suspended. In this case, we are going to vote on the Commission's proposal - options I and II for § 75 to be rejected. Vote 131 MPs: 114, against 5, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov on the creation of a new paragraph in the Energy Act. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov for the creation of a new chapter in the Water Act. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u176	It's nice to read both unless they're withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u177	No, they're not withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u178	If you withdraw them, you won't read them.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u179	I withdraw both offers. They didn't get support, it's specifically the production that's being offered, but it needs to be refined. This is a form of advertising with regard to consumers in water services and electricity supply. The Commission proposes to establish paragraphs 77, 78 and 79: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Labour Code in art. 349, para. 1, t. 11 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No § 78. In the Law on the Civil Service in art. 112, para. 1, t. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): Five o'clock. § 79. In the Law on Political Parties in art. 18, para. 1 after the words "al." In addition, paragraph 1 (b) is replaced by the following: The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u180	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 77, 78 and 79 with content in accordance with the Commission report. Vote 127 MPs: for 126, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 77, 78 and 79 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u181	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the paragraph be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u182	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am using the last paragraph to express my gratitude to the Chair of the Legal Commission. I am using the last paragraph to thank my colleague Danail Kirilov, the members of the Commission of the ruling majority and the opposition, not to give them all to my colleague Milkov, colleague Zarkov, Anna Alexandrova, Yordanka Fikirliyska, who stood until the late hours in which the Legal Commission met. I thank the national ombudsman, the representatives of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Chamber of Private Judicial Artists and the referees and experts of the Legal Commission, without which this Bill, which actually makes a very serious reform of the civil process, would not have happened. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u184	Thank you. You missed the Vice-Presidents of the Commission. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u185	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Ombudsman! I would like to thank my fellow Members from the United patriots, personally and specifically my colleague Mitev, Vice-President of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Thank you all for participating in this work. It was long, complex, highly controversial, with very clearly reflected clashes between these ideas and interests. Despite the many times we have put into this work, I think the discussion was careful, justified, without unnecessary emotions and without attacking. I hope we've come to working decisions. This is to be checked by the practice. I would also like to thank the scientists who took part in the scientific conference, the judges who shared the experience I would say invaluable in their work, although we disagreed with all those who were expressing. I also allow myself to say that one of those participants who were useful is currently subject to an attack. At the moment he is defending himself and I want to express my support for his work, which he did under the GPC, and wish him success in all battles. I would also like to thank the Ombudsman. I know how many things I'm guilty of. I know what damage and damage I've done, but I still think we had a good interaction and that this interaction was in favor of the law. In order not to overdo it, Mr. Chairman, we have two more votes. I am convinced that the Ombudsman will have the opportunity to take an opinion on this. I thank my colleague Alexandrova, I thank the four Vice-Presidents of the Committee on Legal Affairs and all Members and all of you for the support or failure to support specific legal decisions. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u186	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there others? It was just like an Oscar ceremony. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u187	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! And on behalf of the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria, who participated in the work of the Legal Commission, I would like to express my gratitude for the patience and organization of the President of the Legal Commission and his team, as well as for the overall work in this Commission. [[Applause.]] I think this is one of the meaningful things that this Parliament has done. It has shown that a bill submitted by various forces can be co-operated, found its place and was eventually adopted. The initiative for all this came from the Ombudsman of the Republic, to which we also owe our gratitude. Now we have to see whether and how these texts will work and watch carefully for further problems that we could not solve, but the work continues. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u188	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Any other statements by MPs? The Ombudsman of the Republic has the floor of Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u189	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for your hours of work in plenary in the work on this Bill. Thank you for your commitment, thank you for standing by your constituents on a subject that is extremely painful for them. I know it wasn't easy, and it wasn't easy to resist the pressure of private court contractors, but it was a test for this parliament because I've been fighting this battle for five years. I've introduced this project to three parliaments. This is the first parliament to decide on the important step to limit the superpowers of private judicial contractors. [[Applause.]] Thank you to all the parliamentary groups, especially to the Legal Commission for the tens of hours it has used to get to this result, thank you personally and to the Chair of the Legal Commission Mr. Kirilov, [[Applause]] Because I'm a realist. If he had stumbled, the adoption of the Bill would have become even slower, harder and somewhere further in time. He did so from the heart and eager to help citizens who suffer from the harassment of private judicial contractors. Two more sentences. I accept the skepticism that sounded from this part of the Chamber. [[sighs right-hand side]] . I, too, engage in the next six months to watch closely how the newly adopted texts are applied..................... I have constant feedback with the citizens. I am sure that you have one, too, and if it turns out that the private court contractors have found gaps between the adopted texts, I am committed to again insisting on your attention for changes to the Civil Procedure Code. So far, it's a good result. Five of six important causes have found a solution. The sixth cause, which concerns limiting the overprivileges of banks, has not been removed from our attention. On the contrary, literally from tomorrow, as we have agreed with the lawyers of the Patriotic Front, we are starting work on drafting texts to enable citizens to verify the accuracy of the accounts that banks claim against them. I must admit, the lyrics I had suggested were not precise enough. They would have further burdened the citizens, as I stressed during the debate. The best proposal was from the party Volja, but it was not supported in the House. We will make a good option which, I hope, will again be adopted by this Parliament by consensus. Thanks again! I wish you to work tirelessly on all causes that are important to your constituents, which are just and even when it is difficult not to give up, as we did in this important battle! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u190	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ombudsman. Any other speeches? I won't. I am closing the debate and voting on the Commission proposal for § 76 by importer. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 76 by importer is rejected. We now have to return to the Commission's proposal to create a new § 41.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u191	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In short, I return you to the Commission's proposal for a definition of proportionality and a new article. 442a with three paragraphs. In view of the debates and in view of the fact that this was the last text voted in the second reading final in the Legal Committee and was voted without being seen, i.e. it was voted on on an oral statement, it is necessary to edit it. I had suggested dropping out of Al. Two and three. The Ombudsman objected to the removal of para. Two and three. He asked for a recess so that further discussions and consultations could be held. At present, I believe that all those involved in the work of the working group and the Legal Committee agree with the following: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 442a under the name "Size" Paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall not apply. Please note the finals at the end and the opportunity to remain unsatisfied. Instead of al. 2 and para. 3, which you see in the report, the proposal is for para. 2 containing the following content: Paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall not apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u192	Alinea 3 is out, is that it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u193	Alinei 2 and 3 drop out with this content, and instead is the text of para. One and two, as I read them.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u194	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote first to drop para. 2 and 3 of the text proposed by the Commission. Vote 120 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 1. The proposal for the removal of para. 2 and 3 in the Commission text in the proposed new § 41 are rejected. We are going to vote on the proposals made by the parliamentary tribune to supplement para. 1, as presented to you and then to create para. 2 with the corresponding content as presented to you by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Danail Kirilov. They voted 118 MPs: for 94, against 1, abstention 23. Proposals for amendments to the proposed new § 41 in the form of supplement in para. 1 and para. 2 with its contents are accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 41, as proposed to you by the report and by the amendments that have just been adopted by the plenary. We are voting on the new § 41 on the Commission report with the amendments that have now been adopted in this House. They voted 119 MPs: 87, none against, abstention 32. Paragraph 41 on the Commission's report, together with the amendments adopted in plenary, has been adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly, I propose that the deadline for proposals for amendments and additions to the bill on electronic communications networks and physical infrastructure adopted in the first vote, No 754-01-50, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, should be extended by two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u196	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Is there a reverse opinion? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal made. They voted 122 MPs: 114, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE APPLICATION OF THE COUNCIL REGULATION (EC) No 1236/2005 ON TRADE WITH CERTAIN GOODS WHICH THEY HAD BEEN COULD HAVE BEEN USED FOR THE USE OF DEATH-CRAFT, TURNED OR OTHER FORMS OF GREEN, INDEPENDENT OR UNIFICIOUSLY RECOGNIZED OR PUNISHED. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you go, Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! To your attention, I present ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Council Regulation (EC) No 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used for the application of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, No 702-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2017. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 4 October 2017 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Council Regulation (EC) No 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used to apply the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Economy: Lachezar Borisov Deputy Minister; Hristo Atanasov Director of the Internationally Controlled Trade and Security Directorate (Internationally Controlled Trade and Security Department); Ivan Penchev Head of Internationally Controlled Trade Department (Internationally Controlled Trade Department); Desislava Doycheva State Expert at the Office of Internationally Controlled Trade and Security (Internationally Controlled Trade and Security), and Maya Stoilova Chief Expert at the Directorate of Internationally Controlled Trade and Security. The bill was presented by Lachezar Borisov. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to implement Regulation No 2016/2134 and Regulation (EC) No 1236/2005 in a timely manner the introduction of national rules for granting authorisations for the provision of brokering services, transit and technical assistance to goods which could be used for the purpose of applying the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. The introduction of common export authorisations and the provision of brokering services aims at limiting the administrative burden for applicants and the competent authorities are entitled to issue a general authorisation. In relation to Decision No 338 of the Council of Ministers of 2017, the Draft Law provides for the waiver of the requirement to grant certain references or acts issued by the applicant, as their requirement and issue will take place in the official order. The Act shall be annexed to those required under art. 76, para. 1, t. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. After a 19-vote vote, the Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Council Regulation (EC) No 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used for the application of the death penalty, torture or other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, No 702-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I hereby put to the vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Council Regulation(EC) No 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used for the application of the death penalty, torture or other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment brought to the National Assembly under heading 702-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2017. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The bill was unanimously adopted in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE OWNITY AND USE OF EARTHS OF EARTHS. The report by the Committee on Agriculture and Food will be presented by the National Representative Dimitar Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on three bills amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land: No 754-01-52, tabled by the National Representative Yordan Apostolov and a group of MPs on 5 September 2017; No 754-01-61, submitted by the National Representative Dragomir Stoynev and a group of MPs on 21 September 2017, and No 754-01-63, submitted by the National Representative Zapreyan Yankov and a group of MPs on 27 September 2017. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 4 October 2017, discussing the three drafts cited. The commission took part in the work of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests Vergina Krasteva, Deputy Minister, Lilia Stoyanova, Head of the Department of the Directorate of Land Relations and Comasation. Representatives of non-governmental and branch organizations were also present. Draft Law No 754-01-52 was presented by the MP Yordan Apostolov. The Law introduces the requirement that the lease contracts be concluded by owners or co-owners of properties, or by an authorised person, and the relations between co-owners will be settled under art. 30, para. 3 of the Property Act. With regard to co-owners, a second option is proposed in which it is subject to the condition that the co-owner or co-owners who enter into the contract or authorise someone to enter into one, own more than 25 per cent of the shares in the joint ownership. Rental of agricultural land will be allowed where this is expressly agreed in the contract and the tenant will be obliged to notify the landlord immediately. When validating the signatures of the parties to signed leases and lease contracts, the notaries will check the extent to which the landlord, respectively the tenant, meets the new requirements. It is envisaged that, when entering the lease and lease contracts on agricultural land, sketches will be presented and the terms and conditions for their registration in the municipal agriculture office will be laid down by the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry. A fixed fee shall be introduced to enter the contracts for more than one year. It is prohibited for municipal agriculture services to register leases, leases and joint processing of agricultural land when they are concluded by non-owners and when they find that more than one different contract is available. A requirement shall be introduced where there are rental contracts not concluded by the owners or by their authorised persons in the Registry Office to confirm such contracts in the Registry Service within one month. This will be done with a written declaration that has a notarized signature. The absence of a declaration will result in the official deletion of the registration by the Judge of the Registry, respectively of the registration by the Land Property Authority. For the annual leases, the declaration will be submitted to the municipal agriculture office. The new rules will apply to the 2017 2016 business year. In this regard it is intended to end the pending legal proceedings to appeal against the refusals of municipal agriculture services to register property contracts concluded by non-owners, co-owners or persons authorised by them. The Agricultural Landing Act proposes similar changes in terms of the scope of the inspection carried out by the notaries in the conclusion of contracts and the requirement to provide a sketch when entering the lease contracts on agricultural land. The Committee on the Law received opinions from the National Association of Grain Producers, from the Bulgarian Association of Judges on the Registrys and from the Bulgarian Association of Agricultural Land Owners with comments and concrete proposals. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry supports the bill in principle, making remarks on a large part of the texts. Draft No 754-01-61 was presented by the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova. It proposes the establishment of a targeted register of owners and users of agricultural land to be kept by municipal agriculture services. Owners will have an obligation to state changes in a timely manner. In case of non-compliance between the owners entered in the contracts submitted by users and the information available in the register, the municipal office will be obliged to notify the parties to the contract. The need to apply for permanent use of property is removed. If two or more of the contracts for the same property are not entered in the Registry Office, registration shall be carried out on the contract specified by the owner in the declaration lodged. The requirement to have an explicit written agreement between the parties is also removed when the period of contracts not entered is extended. It is proposed annually by 5 August that municipal agriculture services prepare systematic information on agricultural land in their lands for the upcoming business year and ensure its publicity. The information collected will be sent to the committee leading the conclusion of agreements to create sets of use between owners and/or users entered in the register. The Agricultural Landing Act proposes when the lease contracts are entered mandatory to require a sketch of the properties. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 should therefore be amended accordingly. The Commission received an opinion on the draft Law of the National Association of Grain Producers. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry does not support the bill and draws attention to the fact that all information is available in existing registers such as municipal agriculture services provide data on registered contracts, applications and declarations to owners and users of agricultural land. Draft Law No 754-01-63 was presented by the MP Zapreyan Yankov. It proposes that rental contracts may be concluded by an owner, co-owner or co-owner, or by an authorised person, as well as by a person obtained from the owner or from the authorised person the right to use or manage the land. The authorisation should be with a notary certification of the content and signatures of the parties. Relations between co-owners will be settled according to art. 30, para. 3 of the Property Act. It is intended that the land can be rehired if agreed in the contract, and the tenant will be obliged to notify the landlord and the municipal agriculture office in writing within three days. Contracts with a term of more than one year will be concluded with a notary certification of the content and signatures of the parties. Only rental contracts meeting new requirements will be registered in the municipal agriculture office. When providing for the registration of more than one contract for one property, the contract entered into the Registry Office with the earliest date will be registered. These requirements will be applied by the 2017. The specific rules for the registration of contracts will be established by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. In order to maintain the registration of the contracts already concluded, they should be confirmed by the owner or co-owners by a declaration lodged at the Municipal Agriculture Office. It is proposed that the holders of compensatory instruments that have won tenders for agricultural land from the State Land Fund pay forty percent of the proposed price by cash. From the legal definition of the concept of "Passant agricultural animals" the horses drop out. The Agricultural Landing Act proposes similar changes in terms of the conclusion of lease contracts, the verification by notaries of compliance with new requirements and overendowment of properties. The Cadastral and Property Register Act proposes the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency to provide the documents necessary for the needs of municipal agriculture services through remote access to its information system. The cooperative law provides that joint processing contracts provided by the members of the cooperative are subject to notary certification and registration. The Commission received an opinion from the National Grains Association. There is also an opinion of the National Association of Municipalities, which supports the bill by making concrete proposals. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry supports the bill. In the subsequent discussion on the three drafts by the Parliamentary Group of Volja...................Volja.................................................................. The parliamentary group of GERB noted that they are against the requirement to provide sketches when entering the lease contracts and leases of agricultural land provided for in the laws of the National Representative Yordan Apostolov and a group of MPs and the National Representative Dragomir Stoynev and a group of MPs, as the sketch does not represent a document of ownership. According to them, the presentation of a document of legal basis, the notary certification of signatures and the content of the contract and the requirement that contracts be concluded only by a certain range of persons is sufficient guarantee against abuse. In addition, GERB announced against the creation of a new register of owners and users, as all information is already available in existing registers. From the parliamentary group, the DPS said they were ready to support all three bills, but disagreed with the proposal to reduce the percentage paid with compensatory instruments in tender for agricultural land by the State Land Fund. They also disagreed with the removal of horses from the concept of "Passant farm animals." From the Association of Farmers, from the National Union of Cattlemen in Bulgaria and the National Association of Grain Producers announced strongly against the introduction of a minimum percentage of ownership in the conclusion of lease contracts proposed as a version in the draft law of the National Representative Yordan Apostolov and a group of MPs. According to them, the problem with contracts concluded by non-owners for the white spots is caused by the text introduced in the Landing Act, which provides that in order to be able to conclude lease contracts, owners should own more than 50% of the properties. The branch organizations opposed the provision of sketches when entering the lease and lease contracts on agricultural land and against the creation of an additional register. In conclusion, they argued that the proposed changes would lead to a large increase in the administrative burden for farmers without helping solve the problems. The National Union of Agricultural Cooperatives in Bulgaria agreed with the arguments of the other representatives of the branch organizations and in addition said that they are strongly against joint processing contracts to be subject to notary certification. The Bulgarian Association of Registry Judges noted that notaries are required to check the documents for ownership only. They noted that there was no time limit for the listing and that the judges of the entries who had the most up-to-date information on the real estate transactions and their burdens were not provided to carry out a verification of ownership. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that the ownership remained the same at the time of entry of the contract. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Food shall: 1. With 19 votes for the House, without the opposition and 1 vote, abstention is proposed by the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on ownership and use of agricultural land, No 754-01-52, submitted by the National Representative Yordan Apostolov and a group of MPs on 5 September 2017. 2. With 9 votes in favour, without the opposition, and 11 votes in abstention, the National Assembly proposes that no draft law on ownership and use of agricultural land should be adopted in the first vote, No 754-01-61, submitted by the National Representative Dragomir Stoynev and a group of MPs on 21 September 2017. 3. With 11 votes for the House, 1 vote against the House and 8 votes abstentions, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on ownership and use of agricultural lands No, 754-01-63, submitted by the National Representative Zapreyan Yankov and a group of MPs on 27 September 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u200	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. It's 13.59. Due to the running out of time scheduled for today's plenary day, I'm adjourned.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-18.u201	We'll continue tomorrow on the program we've already adopted. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
