ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 48, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that a decision be adopted on the regular plenary sitting on 25 May 2017, Thursday, from 14:00 to 19:00. Please vote. Vote 152 MPs: 149, against 1, abstention 2. With regard to the decision just adopted, allow me to remind both committee guides and their members to organise committee meetings on Thursday, 25 May 2017 in the most convenient way for them. Proposals on the agenda may be made by 18:00 on 23 May 2017. Message: in the execution of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through and the residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of servicemen from Albania, Britain and Spain to participate in the doctrine of NATO. The notification was received on 18 May 2017, No 703-0-5 and submitted to the Defence Commission. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 12 May 2017 to 18 May 2017 from: - National Representative Cornelia Ninova, MPs Zhelyo Boychev and Manol Genov to Nikolay Nankov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the implementation of the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multifamily Buildings. The reply should be made in plenary on 26 May 2017; - MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Ivan Genov to Temenuzhka Petkova The reply should be made in plenary on 26 May 2017; - MP Krum Zarkov to Ekaterina Zaharieva - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs, on Bulgaria's progress under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism. The reply should be made in plenary on 26 May 2017; - National Representative Anton Kutev to Krasimir Karakachanov - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence, on the personnel policy of the government. The reply should be made in plenary on 26 May 2015; - National Representative Georgi Yordanov to Nikolay Petrov, Minister of Health, on a strategy for the development of hospital care facilities in the Republic of Bulgaria. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 26 May 2017. Written response by: - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov to two questions from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Daniel Yordanov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva. We're moving on to answers to questions. The first question is to Nikolay Nankov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. He will answer a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov on a strategy for completing the highway. Here you are, Mr. Antonov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u2	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, in the management program of the new government, in the transport part one of the main priorities that has been stepped up is completion of the highway. In your interview recently, Mr. Minister, you also mentioned as a very important priority precisely the completion of the highway. The several questions that I had asked your predecessor in the previous parliament, too often the answers I received were leaky, optimistic, but there was nothing concrete about them. Very often the construction of the route, the project for the route was changed, and the procedures that were going on public procurement were delayed and were very often canceled. Undoubtedly, the construction of the highway is extremely important, which will enable the economic development of this region, and will also enable the people who live there to level up in development with Northern and Southern Bulgaria. We definitely think of this as a serious matter. My question to you is: what is your strategy for completing the highway?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. The word is made by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nikolay Nankov. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, Road Infrastructure Agency (API) in the years has undergone a series of actions with which projects, such as the speed road Botevgrad The following sections of the highway route are to be built for the highway: The first section from Yablanitsa to the road node of Boaza with a length of 9.3 km. The second one is from the boaza to the fork of Pleven Lovech, you know, second-class road II-35 with a length of 50 km. The third section of the branch Pleven "Lovech" to Veliko Tarnovo with a length of about 85 km. The fourth from Veliko Tarnovo to the road hub of Buhovtsi with a length of 90 km. The last section is from the road hub to the resource land on the highway....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In total, the listed sections are 250 km of construction of the motorway route. Projects for individual sections may be allocated in three groups. For two of them with a total length of 25.6 km, you know, a public contract was launched to select a contractor for design and construction, i.e. for engineering, and a public contract for consulting services. This is the section I mentioned, from Yablanitsa to the road node "Boaza" with a length of 9.3 km and that from the road node "Buhovtsi" to the road node "Belokopitovo" with a length of more than 16 km. For the first segment there is a selected contractor for design and construction with a proposed price of 55 million. lv. The bid, the tender price, the bid was 96 million and there was almost twice a 40% price reduction on the basis of the offer. The price is VAT-free, I mentioned, 55 million. lv. The decision was appealed to the Commission for Protection of Competition (PCC). The KPC has spoken in favour of the Road Infrastructure Agency. However, five complaints have now been filed before the Supreme Administrative Court (VAS). This is yesterday's information. Naturally, we will wait for the Supreme Administrative Court's decision so that we can enter into a contract with the performer and launch the execution of this section. A contractor is to be selected for the consulting service of this section. About the second segment I mentioned, from the road hub to the road hub of Belokopitovo, the price offers are about to be opened. Yesterday the price offers for construction and consulting service opened. The indicative value is 133 million. lv. without VAT for design and construction and 2.6 million for consulting services. The second group of sections are 50 km between the road hub of Boazas and the road hub of Pleven Lovech. There was launched a contract for selection of designers. We'll be signing a contract within a few days. The designers will design these 50 km in three stages. The time limit for the implementation of the design shall be six months. For the third group of sections, for the rest of the route of the highway is made an ideal project. At the end of 2015, an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) decision was issued, but for the section from km 206+500 to 222 km on the highway a new version of the route had to be developed. For this a contract has been concluded with a contractor and the design team is currently removing the comments and omissions identified by the API on the documentation. The new options will be re-exposed to the EIA, for which a contract was concluded with an external contractor in 2016. A significant financial resource is needed to complete the highway. According to indicative data, although we see that prices in contracts are falling, and significantly, the resource is more than 2 billion. lv. For 2017........................................................................................... With a decree of the Council of Ministers dated January 22 million were provided. Eight hundred and eighty thousand. BGN, in order to be able to start the two sections, with which we will initially have a selected contractor, for corresponding pre-financing under their contracts. In addition to the API's budget, another 1 million have been provided. lv. to pay for design and construction. Of course, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works (MRDP) and the Road Infrastructure Agency, we are continuing to work on the financial provision of the project, discussing various options for providing funds, including the introduction of the Toll fee. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Maybe in the next answers I'll also talk about the toll fee in the opportunity you'll give me as a duplicate. I'm done. Indeed, we are looking for opportunities to finance all the sections of which I mentioned at the Highway of Hemus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Nankov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u6	Dear Mrs. Chairmanate, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I understand your desire for a detailed description of the whole situation in the construction of the highway, but I definitely want to tell you that your answer was extremely satisfactory. You are a minister, and with this I started that your predecessor was going exactly the way you are going now. The people who live in Northern Bulgaria and all of us as opposition wish to specifically answer us when will the highway be completed? How much is it going to cost? When will these procedures finally be completed so we can have a complete highway? Undoubtedly everything you have listed so far is the speed road, which is Ruse "Turnovo; and the one that is Vidin and for which my colleague is about to ask a question about Vidin "Sofia," the speed road; and the tunnel under Shipka are very important. Without the Hemus highway, they are pointless. Without the highway, it becomes meaningless living and labor in Northern Bulgaria. It is worth answering one more question: how much is the final price growing after each of its determination of the highway Because to a large extent, people ask themselves one question. This issue is repeatedly put as a priority in every single cabinet Borisov. As a finale, we do not have any solution, and the funds that should be allocated to this highway are constantly increasing. Thank you, I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u7	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. The word has the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov for the duplicate. Here you go, Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, be assured that for us as a government the reduction of the disproportion between Northern and Southern Bulgaria is not only a major priority, but is our main goal and the highway "Hemus" and all the road sections in Northern Bulgaria, which I have listed, strategic ones, will be a key tool for reducing these disproportions. I agree with your findings on the importance, the priority of the highway, but you obviously did not listen well to my answer, because it was in the government of Borisov 2 that started the real implementation as procedures, and Government 3 will start the real implementation as activities for the construction of separate sections. The funding for the first 9.3 km, if we speak along the West "Iztok" route, is provided from the road hub to Yablanitsa. There we are just waiting for the legal procedure to pass the appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court. We're making a contract. Here, indeed, with the finding that the route is constantly expensive, I could not agree with that, as I mentioned in the reply just now that of 96 million. lv. At the same time, the Commission considers that the aid granted by the Region was compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. You can see that there is a 40% reduction in the price proposed by the Road Infrastructure Agency. In other words, there is a savings of funds that will be used for new sections accordingly. About the route East south, from the road hub of Belokopitovo, to the road hub of Bukhovtsi and again we are in the procedure of holding the tender procedure in order to open the price offers of the candidates. I suppose there could also be complaints, but this is the fundamental right of all the parties concerned concerned, in the good sense of the word, the competitive principle in participation in a public procurement to appeal the procedures. Financing. I mentioned important payments under both contracts are provided by the state budget, respectively from the Agency's budget. A moment ago, I mentioned to the Toll Fees an extremely important topic which I will perhaps develop in the duplicates to subsequent questions, because all of you, esteemed Members of the National Assembly, will ask me about separate road sections in separate areas..... second-class, tenth-class roads, first-class, speedy ones, motorways. Until we introduce the truly socially fair toll model and electronic bill, we will have a problem financing the road sector in Bulgaria. Once I enter it, on an annual basis we will have between four and five times greater resources not only for rehabilitation of old road sections, but for building and building new ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u9	Thank you, dear Minister. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It has been almost two months since the elections for the Forty-fourth National Assembly and almost a month since the election of Mr. Borisov's government. During this time, Parliament is not fully operational. I think we even set a record with the shortest session of 23 minutes. What this looks like outside this building, you know it's bad. This is another argument to collapse the authority of the institution. Why is that? The government of Boyko Borisov has no legislative programme. In the election campaign, you ladies and gentlemen of GERB promised, you claimed that you were ready to rule that you returned to power a third time and entered with a flying start in power to see this start, which turned out not to fly, but a false start. The facts from the beginning of the Forty-fourth National Assembly have been submitted six bills by BSP four of them, one of the "Volja" and one of GERB, and one of the "United Patriarchs" and by GERB, withdrawn afterwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u11	Your parents are old, from the last parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u12	This is your legislative initiative to date. GERB and the United Patriarchs pre-election promised to raise pensions, raise wages, fight domestic crime, drop a minor case, fight corruption, amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Where are these laws almost two months after the beginning of our work? None of this is happening, but without promising you have introduced the lobbying law on the construction of agricultural land for a changed purpose. Before the elections, the income and security of the people, after the elections these same things, only for the majority and the government. We from the BSP submitted proposals in the Social Security Code for recalculating all pensions, changes in the PPC concerning private judicial contractors and limiting abuse of people, the Food Act for protection of Bulgarian production, the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill to help people with disabilities, the Temporary Commission for unpaid salaries and social security of workers, the Temporary Commission for Water Pollution with uranium. Dear rulers, we have not won the elections, but we have given you a legislative programme. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You obviously don't have one. Let the National Assembly work on ours, which belongs to your banks in the form of bills. The second main part of our work is the parliamentary control. GERB have asked one question,
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u13	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u14	More importantly, the ministers of Boyko Borisov of these forty-eight have responded so far, until today only five.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u15	When?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u16	There are deadlines!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u17	Managers in one month do not fulfil their second commitment to parliamentary control. Two months of nothing to do with government and government. During that time, he was boiling feverish work on distribution of power and money. Do you remember in the election campaign which was one of Boyko Borisov's supporting points? Here's my team, BSP doesn't have a team. We want a debate between teams, not among leaders. Deputy Minister of Energy against whom six employers' organizations write an angry declaration; Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, for whom there was a dispute whether he was a bachelor or a master's degree, but the man contributed that he was one of those young people who kissed Borisov's public hand in training of youth GERB. Is there a connection to diplomacy with Bulgaria's empty chair at the Beijing meeting, which aroused the ambiguity of many European leaders and the participants in this meeting? The best man of one of the leaders of GERB becomes Deputy Minister. Deputy Minister of Transport, whom the Union of Bulgarian carriers and international carriers accuse of abuse. The entire staff of BDZ has been goosebumped by the leadership you've appointed. Deputy Minister of the Interior, who says that the problems should be solved by fighting and admired the sharia where violence was applied. I can continue with such scandalous appointments in all sectors, but I won't have the ten minutes for the declaration. This is Boyko Borisov's team, with which he paraded in front of the elections. That is why I will end with the last Deputy Minister in the Government of Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria with a Hitlerist greeting and Deputy Prime Minister with joking photos from Buchenwald. Where have you brought European Bulgaria? Are you willing to ignore European and Bulgarian values because of power and money? We want Valeri Simeonov's resignation. Since you allow yourself to tie this case to the sentence given by colleague Krum Zarkov, I will not ignore that question. I stand before you, and before all the people, and say this: we are different from you, and the distinction is in this. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u18	You're right about that.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u19	When Krum Zarkov uttered this line, BSP defined it as a mistake. GERB defines today's situation as a joke. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'm wrong. I'm kidding. [[(Applause and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] I said to Krum Zarkov: "You must immediately and quickly apologize publicly to the Bulgarian people, and he did so. Boyko Borisov said: "Everyone has had a business trip to make such jokes and is human. An apology on one side, on the other side, was to make Hitlerian signs, take pictures, and play social media with them. Third difference, Krum Zarkov was promoted to MP and the people directly chose him, and that is why he is here. He's had a direct choice. If the people had decided he wasn't worthy, Krum wouldn't be here. [[GERB lines.]] These deputy ministers, even director of the Directorate yesterday at the Ministry of Defence, did not receive the will of the people, they are the choice of Boyko Borisov and he is responsible for this. So much for the differences between us and you in these situations. We have questions not only for you, for the European People's Party, which is the political family of the right-wing parties and GERB in Europe and they are: does this government meet your criteria for democratic and European? The election campaign of your political family came to Bulgaria and condemned BSP as anti-European and anti-democratic and urged it not to be elected because it will take Bulgaria out of the European Union. Do you remember why this was done? Because of our position to protect the Bulgarian economy and Bulgarian production by rejecting the Agreement with Canada SETA. That is why your European leaders have named us an anti-European party. Where are these European leaders of yours today? Why are they silent? Where is their assessment that many representatives of the supposed European government in Bulgaria already make Hitlerian signs, photograph and publish them, and are proud of it? Where are your European leaders and what are the double standards of the European People's Party? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] During these two months of sharing in power, scandal after scandal and guilty silence of Borisov, what did the people receive? That's all that matters. Increase in the prices of gas, steam and water, the court canceled the minimum wage, the court canceled the national health card of Borisov 2, ecologists protest against lobby law, mothers of children with disabilities protest for inhumane conditions for their upbringing, six employers' organizations protest against you, trade unions and the Ministry of Interior come out with an angry position and do not give 100 days to this government in this position, tensions in employees and trade unions in BDZ, an increase of electricity is expected from July 1st, checks of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office and the European Development Bank for Sanitation and Corruption are under way to check the construction of highways from the Prosecutor's Office with suspicion of corruption. Sofia Municipality yesterday tried outside any law and rules to distribute some 36 million to companies close to you. This is real life outside this building and beyond your idea of politics and governance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u20	How are these companies close to us?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u21	I see that you resent, ladies and gentlemen of GERB, but can you deny these facts? This is the true essence of the government of Borisov 3 and the real picture of life in Bulgaria. Against this background, I would like to congratulate the BSP parliamentary group. [[Noise and lines from GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u22	Guide to completion, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u23	We're consistent colleagues, not in fairy tales, but in cases. Our program is already a fact, we have protected by the laws the interests of the people [[the President signals that time has run out]] who sent us. I'm done. Thanks to us lobbying law has been withdrawn and the deal in Sofia Municipality has been stopped. When the governors hid, we were with the mothers...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u24	Your time is up, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u25	Two sentences, please. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] When we were at the height of Bulgarian statesmen, we proposed the declaration for Macedonia and everyone agreed, that is, we prove that there is opposition, there is an alternative, there are statesmen when this requires the interest of Bulgaria. That's... [[The National Representative continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova, your time is up. [[Applause and cheers by "BSP for Bulgaria": "Bravo, bravo!"]] Any other affidavits? Mr. Todorov, please come on behalf of GERB's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today's declaration by the BSP must say that it proves one thing: that it is a party that every time reaches the gaping heights in brazenness, in shamelessness, a party that sings in the face of its chairman's aria of disgrace. [[Applause from GERB, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The aria of disgrace, whose good performer is Mrs. Ninova, contains several elements and it is a direct call against reason, against facts, against sound sense. The healthy meaning, Mrs. Ninova and Mr. Popov, is an experiential knowledge tested. What do we know about the BSP party? We know it's a party with a wrong name. It is a non-Bulgarian Socialist Party. [[Applause from GERB.]] She is the successor of the Non-Bulgarian Communist Party, a party that twice tried to make our Homeland Republic of the Soviet Union... [[Strong noise, lines and banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u28	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u29	Three times he brought Bulgaria to bankruptcy, killed the elite of Bulgaria and imprisoned the savior of the Bulgarian Jews. [[BSP banks for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u30	Mr. Todorov, just a moment. Order, please! Go on, Mr. Todorov. [[The Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria is leaving the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u31	Your congresses follow those series of conventions of the other non-Bulgarian party the Communist Party, whose successor you are, the party that condemned the savior of the Bulgarian Jews, the party that killed Grandma Tonka's heirs, the party that killed over 30 thousand Bulgarians! You slaughtered the Bulgarians, and neither did a Turk. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo" by GERB.]] In a careful study of the image of the non-Bulgarian composite, pardon, soccer party, one thing is clearly seen: that this is a party that is made up of a particular breed of insolent people, people who are intoxicated by their impunity. And the fact that you can't stand the facts I'm saying right now is only proof of the correctness of what I'm saying. Today's corruption fighter Mrs. Nino should answer specific questions. If there was a court in Bulgaria, if there was a prosecution in Bulgaria, it should have been in a place cold, in a place dark. [[Applause and cheering by GERB.]] And since she is of the gentle sex, I will not call on her to make small stones in this place cool and dark, but of the small gravel stones, but she still had to bear some responsibility for the insolentness that she demonstrated every time, the twilight blooms in this tribune. I will complete the declaration on behalf of GERB's parliamentary group with something that was said by a great American historian, a pro-Jewish by origin, Gertrude Himmelfarb, is said. It says so: "Communism has actually proved national socialism with more luck. " It is said so that you can't add anything, you can't take anything away. I would say that this party never made an excuse for the crimes against us Bulgarians, to the Bulgarian nation, to Bulgaria. And here I will quote a former member of the BCP, who, in his recollections when returning from the camps in Gulag, says never again: "I hope never again the rule of BSP, which is the utopia of power! I conclude by saying that these people should finally apologize for the crimes of the BCP and their crimes during the 28-year transition. Mrs Cornelia Ninova said that BSP has never been involved in privatisation and has not participated in what she calls the Robbery and Robbery Associations. And privatization of the foreign trading company -- Technoimpex -- which in only one capital city -- Harare -- has assets for a million and a half -- it, which privatizes with RMD for the amount of $70,000 -- how do you see it? Is this part of gang privatization? In my opinion, the RMDs were correctly called the Robbery Mentardzhian companies and the champion in Bulgaria for doing this type of privatization is called Cornelia Ninova, who is cynically absent at the moment [[Applause from GERB.]] And the unworthy campaign, which BSP and its hoops in this Parliament, the party of DPS, the ethnic party, which I also believe is part of the non-Bulgarian hoops in our policy, led an unworthy campaign at the very beginning of the cabinet Borisov 3 and because they mentioned specifically the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, I will say that their prime minister at the age of 34 stood up and led to such a success for Bulgaria, I refer to the face of Jean Videnov that millions of Bulgarians went out on the street and brought them down with stones and trees as if we were defending against the Ottoman enslaver who had invaded our country. Prime Minister Vasil Radoslavov became one when he was 32. The fact that Georg is 25 years old is only about young people. [[Applause from GERB.]] I see there's a few dozen of them here. You should know that it is not the party with the wrong name that will ensure your entry into the high power........................................................................................................................................................ The party that guarantees the educated, the smart, in the knowledgeable languages Bulgarians, young people is GERB and is located in this part of the hall and not to the left! [[Applause from GERB.]] And I'm finishing my speech with something that I think is important. It is said in Proverbs. The right ways of the Lord are watching, and the left ways are broken. The left roads are right over here, the broken roads according to mankind's greatest book. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Todorov. Mr. Ermenkov, please come in the manner of conduct. [[The BSP Parliamentary Group enters the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It was no accident that I paused after the respectable. Madam President, you are showing double arsin again! You interrupted our protest against the attempted insult and not the attempt, but a clear insult not only to our parliamentary group, but to a million people who voted for us and who a political transvestite called criminals, called liars! Because this man won't, first of all, have morality stand here on this stage and turn this stage into a stage! And you admitted this thing without making a comment, because this declaration, I hope, is not on behalf of GERB and by discrediting GERB, because this cannot be the language of modern politics, because when you look at the past, see above all yourself and your relatives who are criminals and convicted before you go out here on this stage and turn this tribune really into a disgrace to yourself, not to anyone else! And so I ask you, Madam President, the next time they become people here who have no conscience, who have no memories that have become pancakes a hundred times in a pan, to be very strict about what they say! A declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group must be something to express the opinion of the group. I very much hope that GERB will not stand behind this declaration, because indeed they will be... I cannot, even words I do not have outrage, but it will be really their fall! One such declaration shows that there are people in the Bulgarian Parliament who do not respect the choice of the Bulgarian people, that there are people in Parliament who prefer to look at the past, that in Parliament [[the President signals that time has run out]] There are people who insult who don't know what they're here for, and they're probably here...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u34	Mr. Ermenkov, time's up!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u35	...to clear their own conscience that they don't have. Please be principled and when such outrage occurs, stop them on time! Otherwise, the Bulgarian people look at us and he will decide who is right.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u36	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u37	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, my procedure is related to the fact that, with similar actions as what happened, that we are going back 26 years or perhaps even 76 years ago, is not the most important thing. The important thing is that we're tearing down the authority of this highest place we're in. I'm bound to say, after all I've heard, that I'm not associated with what my colleague was talking about. I have nothing to do with this image he expressed and I believe that both the viewers and the people of Bulgaria and the citizens can appreciate this. But I would like to stress that I was also proud of my father, who was a party secretary, and I think he was a decent man. And I'm proud of a lot of his friends and colleagues who were party secretaries and were decent people. And what you're doing right now...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u38	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u39	Well, you can't let that happen, Madam President. They can't be crossed out for generations just because some guy's unstable. You can't do that! [[Replys from the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u40	Please, no qualifiers!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u41	Please ask colleagues from GERB who were members of BSP or BCP to raise their hand. Please let me see how many of you have been members of BCP and BSP because you are more than half. [[GERB lines.]] Back to the way you were led. If you allow the National Assembly to be led in this way, we do not have a place, and you do not have a place in the National Assembly. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u42	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. In the manner of conduct please, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, I do not think that after each declaration, you should give a lot of people a reason to talk. Because the declaration, and today in Parliament, you asked it, colleagues on the left! Because the GERB parliamentary group knows what your approach is and we were done with two types of declaration. You ordered this to be in parliament today. [[Applause from GERB.]] Please be correct! If you were right enough today, if you were constructive enough, if we treated these young people who are in the room today with due respect...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u44	The procedure is the way it's run.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u45	...we would have a declaration that would have been for the upcoming holiday...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u46	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u47	...May 24, for the Bulgarian education and for the Bulgarian culture. But what you set as a tone, you want...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u48	The procedure is the way it's run.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u49	...the constant destruction of the trust of the Bulgarian Parliament. Therefore, Madam President, we adhere to the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the 44th Parliament. After declarations, if we're going in the direction of looking for a way and a reason to ask for the floor, I don't think it's right. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u50	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u51	Dear Mrs. Chairman, the colleagues were long-term, Mr. Tsvetanov too. If I were him, I'd be offended by such a statement, because I guess, like all of us, deep down in our roots, someone behind in generations can't have any member of the BCP. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] But one recommendation, Mrs. Chairman, don't let people on this stand who didn't take their pills this morning!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u52	Isn't that offensive, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u53	Please behave! I'm entitled to two minutes of explanation. I have no way of knowing on behalf of a parliamentary group exactly what message will be uttered by the parliamentary tribune. I gave BSP more than 10 minutes to develop its declaration. In the same way I gave the floor to the parliamentary group of GERB. In a declaration procedure by a parliamentary group, I have no way of knowing what will be said there. We're done with personal explanations.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u54	Procedure, procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u55	Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group of "Attack." [[People from BSP for Bulgaria want a procedure.]] You've had the opportunity of several procedures, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u56	I want procedure, I have reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u57	Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u58	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! It seems to me that the behaviour of our colleague who tried to read a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group, Mr. Todorov, is reprehensible.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u59	That's for the chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u60	In the manner of conduct! I'll take your word for it, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u61	All right, in the manner of conduct, Madam President. You should have interrupted Mr. Todorov at the moment he accused the oldest Bulgarian political party of a crime...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u62	Don't you blame us?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u63	...the moment he uttered these words, as this was a declaration of Bulgarian fascism.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u64	Mr. Zablyanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u65	Fascists are not only in government, they are also in parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u66	This is not the way to lead!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u67	Mr. Todorov, he had to be removed...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u68	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Zablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u69	Mr. Todorov had to be removed from the meeting, taken away from him and punished. You must stop such speeches yourself. These are not innocent gestures, these are not innocent speeches. This is not the primitive anticommunism of the early right hand, it is the resurrected Bulgarian fascism. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) The O.R. wants the word for procedure.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u70	I give the floor to Mr. Volen Siderov for a declaration. Final procedure in the manner of conduct. There's no point in repeating the same thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Because as the host of the National Assembly you allow manipulations, suggestions, attacks on fascism, Nazism and so on. There are different things spoken from the opposition, and it is only right, when speaking plain lies or untruths, to suggest or to give some examples of it, in fact, those who say these things, are they true or not. It should not be allowed from the stands of the National Assembly to have delusions, to say that someone was a fascist, that fascism was revived and so on. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I can only say this and you can give this as an example to the opposition and to the BSP as follows. The mayor of Pleven during the Second World War then wrote in his memories: "For Christmas I could not settle for a German soldier because of the local communists who sheltered everyone because they were allies with Stalin and Hitler...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u72	Please, in the manner of conduct, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u73	...and their party.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u74	I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u75	They were the ones with the Nazis and the fascists.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u76	Please, Mr. Angelov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u77	They, they!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u78	Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group on the Patriotic Front. [[Heckling]] Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u79	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u80	Sorry, my mistake is not the Patriot front, but the United Patriots.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u81	It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u82	Excuse me!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, dear guests, dear journalists! I'd like to start with a call to calm down. First of all, we don't need heart attacks during the Friday session, some of us are already old. There is really no need for this excitement with which the sitting began today. We've been back in discussion since the '90s. I remember them. I remember then the attacks on communists, non-communists. I think that's unnecessary now. We're in 2017. We've been through the times we attacked, spit while some people were robbing us. Let's end this and show that we are mature politicians who want something to move forward. I understand the insult and prejudice of the BSP group, and I understand the attacks of Mr. Todorov, who has long been dealing with publicist and exposing crimes of this regime in which there were really crimes. But there are also crimes today, crimes have always been in the politics of Bulgaria. And historically, the policy of the world is so paradoxical that really just before, colleague Julian Angelov mentioned a paradox. Yes, Soviet Russia and Hitlerist Germany were allies until 1941. Then Hitler attacked Soviet Russia. But because here today and yesterday, and these days there is a very heated controversy about who is a Nazi and who is a fascist, I just want to tell you that when at the Nuremberg trial in the cell of Yalmar Shaht, Hitler's economic minister, came in to tell him that there will be a trial against................. the company without which the German military industry would not have succeeded, he laughed at the voice and said:... Then you should sue..Standartaltoil because we were partners and without them the German military industry would not have been revived. You all know about Shell, you load your cars, I don't advertise TV specifically, I say it historically...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u84	Product positioning.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u85	... The company, which was founded by Henry Deterding, is Royal Dutch Shell. You don't know? If you don't know, I'll tell you. Here comes a strong, highly respected, educated man. Hristov, he knows very well that Henry Detterding, the founder of the Royal Dutch Shell, was a fanatic follower of Hitler and supported him financially at the time before he came to power. Well, let's shut down the gas stations, Shells, because they were created by a man who was a worshiper of Hitler, but a true worshiper, not such a fictional or acquitted of what you declared Deputy Ministers and Deputy Prime Minister Simeonov! On this current topic, I would like to say a few words, because I have a lot of and great, and bitter, and useful experience in this direction. Even with the appearance of a party, we were attacked in 2005 and I personally as the person who made this breakthrough, we were shown as Nazis, Hitlerists, Count Dracula and all that was possible the villains of the 21st century, who would set fire to World War III. It was the same show with which he now wants to manipulate the Bulgarian public opinion and bring us into an electoral system that will destroy democracy in Bulgaria. The same show I judged him for lying and defamation because he had put words in my mouth that I didn't pronounce. I convicted him, but so what! The effect was achieved, the public opinion was processed and the vote for us was then hit in this sneaky way! Now he's aiming the same thing. I respect Mrs. Ninova's ambitions. I also respect that she as a young person, ambitious, probably technocrat, was then appointed by Ivan Kostov as executive director of a large foreign enterprise [[Applause]] I remember those years! At the time I was a major and strong critic of Ivan Kostov, I continue to be because I think that he ruined the industry of Bulgaria, the industrial power of Bulgaria and I have heard this many times from colleagues from BSP. But then a young ambitious person is given a position to be realized. How it was realized then I don't know. But the realization of the Technoimpex is zero, it doesn't exist. The huge assets of these foreign trading enterprises have been wiped out, sold out for pennies, and so far no one is responsible, unfortunately. Currently, the leader of BSP is trying to attack the United Patriarchs in an incorrect way, to point out that GERB have taken as a partner some who are questionable as political correctness, please. Why? First of all, you were concerned about our program, not fulfilling the Programme of the United Patriarchs. Ataka's program was not implemented! Thank you for your concern, but let us take care of our Programme and its implementation. [[BSP lines.]] You saw that the government began with strong steps, you saw that in the first weeks, Deputy Prime Minister Simeonov, who attacked him in this incorrect way, because he neither has Nazi tendencies nor is he a pilgrim. These are absolute slanders, lies, manipulations, and you know them well. I know this guy from school years, I know that he doesn't have such views; I know that a publication has made a provocation against him.... those against me have been done dozens of times; I know very well when there are media attacks how they can put something in your mouth that you didn't say. You are doing this attack because you have seen that this government is starting a real job. In the early weeks, measures were taken that eased tourism. In the early weeks, measures were taken that enabled all those who wanted children to have in vitro children to do so without restriction. Measures were taken and continued to be taken [[Applause from GERB]] who in some way push ahead the one who wants something to do, something to do in Bulgaria! Even this withdrawn law was in my opinion a kind of reinsurance, because you criticize it as a lobbyist, but in fact it gave the opportunity to people who want to produce something in Bulgaria, to produce it, to do it, to extend their deadline. But, okay. A wave of protests rose and GERB immediately withdrew the law. You can see there's a reaction. There is a reaction in people who have a conscience who want to govern in accordance with the popular views, and when the photograph of the Deputy Minister of Regional Development appears it was immediately withdrawn. Now, on the hour! Well, what more do we want? This person is really competent, this person could really be useful to Bulgaria. But the political game is such a policy is a cruel occupation! We know it, and that's why I'm talking to my colleagues: yes, any word can be used, every single mistake you pay then a very high tax. I've paid for it, I know it. Therefore, at the moment, I call not only on reason and moderation, but to really look at the essence of things, actions. Valeri Simeonov is an active man, an energetic man, he wants to do something and I know it, I'm sure. I personally have criticized him as harshly as no one has, but I know he has qualities to do something. If you're attacking him now for saying something to a newspaper that hasn't been delivered correctly, that means that you're actually looking for not the good, not the political, not the principled way of criticism, but the second way of saying the second standard, the other standard. You want to make a Nazi out of it when you know very well he's not one. This is to wave to Europe in order to scare someone and say: "Hey, see what people you manage with!" Well, run with GERB, run with people who have proven that they are going through all the battles, that they really want to do something for Bulgaria, that they have suffered all the blows, all the black seals, all the hooligans and attacks we have been through, and we continue to be correct and accurate. And precisely because this government started, as it was in the previous reformers, without any claim from them for power positions, and as you see only two deputy prime ministers, with whom we state our political responsibility to the United Patriarchs, that we share the responsibilities of the government, neither positions nor positions. What means several deputy ministers or two ministers, a minister in fact real, and a leader of a party that stands up, I mean Karakachanov, and Deputy Prime Minister Simeonov, who stand with their face, with their name and with the risk of being vilified. I appeal mostly to the BSP group, because if we go, don't we... At least I've witnessed this period 2005. Then, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, with whom were you a coalition partner, you and the DPS? Well, with the son of the one who put Bulgaria on the axis and was Hitler's partner. King Boris' son was your coalition partner. I'm talking to the real Hitler, not his wax figure. If we go through things like this, there's just not gonna be a fix.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u86	Mr. Siderov, get your head in the game.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u87	To have a fix, let's look at the essence of what is being done, what is being done, criticize us for what we really do in politics, in the economy and in the social sphere. Then we will be honorable, then we will be true colleagues in the National Assembly. Everything else is a game that has already passed its time. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Thank you for returning the calm tone to the room. We move on to the next question from our parliamentary control................................................................. the speed road Sofia................................. Mr. Ivanov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u89	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! In 2011 the start of the design of the speed road Botevgrad was officially announced. Two years later, the new Danube Bridge at Vidin was put into operation, with which the strategic importance of the Sofia direction Vidin exceeded the regional frameworks. At the end of 2014, in an interview with the National Television Minister of Regional Development, Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova said that for the Mezdra section Botevgrad there is a project readiness and is submitted for funding under the plan "Yunker." One month later, from the National Assembly's stand, in response to the MPs, it informed that neither the parcel plan was approved nor the estrangement procedures for the route were launched. Six years have passed in which, in election campaigns, in management priorities, commitments were made to build the speedy path, but neither projects, nor sources of funding, nor governments' intentions have become clear and announced within specific deadlines. During his visit to Vratsa in the last election campaign, the current Prime Minister Mr. Boyko Borisov made a firm commitment to building this road during the term of office. This was officially stated by Mr. Borisov and the announcement of the priorities of the government from this tribune. In this regard, Mr. Minister, my question to you is: when will the construction of the speedway along the Sofia direction begin, and what is the degree of its project readiness?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nikolay Nankov has the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u91	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ivanov, building a speedy road Sofia "Vidin" is at stake as one of the important priorities not only of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, but also of the government Borisov 3, of the cabinet Borisov 3 as part of our management program. At the moment, the Road Infrastructure Agency is using everything necessary to build the speed path along the route I-1/E-79 Vidin "Botevgrad." Separate projects related to the implementation of the overall route are prepared phased and consecutively. I'll tell you what our priorities are, respectively, on the separate sections. The total length of the track is 147 km divided into 4 sections. The first one is Vidin "Montana," 95 km., entirely new construction. The second section is Montana.. Vratsa, 30 km., reconstruction and new construction. The third section is Vratsa Mezdra, 8.9 km., rehabilitation of the existing route. The fourth section is Mezdra... Botevgrad, 32.8 km., entirely new construction. The priority site of the Road Infrastructure Agency is on the first-class road from Sofia to Vidin and vice versa the tour of the town of Dimovo and the Mezdra section of Botevgrad as the first steps. Speaking of the section from Vidin to Dimovo and the tour of the town of Dimovo, passing through the city with increased traffic is a neural point and a serious problem for the whole region. The road route with the perimeter of Dimovo is 11.2 km long. The indicative value of this segment is 56.2 million. Euros with VAT. You know that the main problem of the overall route is the lack of funding, the currently unused funding, as the entire segment has indicative values of over 800 million. Euros. I will say because you asked a question what is the status of the project in the direction of Vidin "Botevgrad," I will explain what are our options and opportunities for searching for sources of funding. In the Vidin section, the site has a ready-made design. An EIA report has been prepared, a positive decision has been given, which is being appealed by the Sustainable Development Coalition. After the request of the API of a preliminary implementation has been confirmed by the SAC at the end of 2016. After the development of the technical project will be carried out accordingly. In September of this year, the technical project, including the detailed planning, parcel plan, is to be received subject to the approval of the National Expert Council on a structure in the territory of the Ministry of Regional Development and Good Works. The estrangement procedure will then be carried out within the foreseeable time limits of about one year by the end of 2018. The possible appeals of estranged acts are not included within this indicative period. The tender procedure for construction is intended to be introduced in 2018. The indicative value of the construction of this section is 450 million. EUR with VAT, without including the tour of Dimovo, which I mentioned at the beginning. The second section, the Montana road, Vratsa, has a ready-made project for it. Following a decision by the MoEW regarding the eligibility of the investment proposal against the nearby storage facility for explosives in the area of Lovely Dol, which is subject to high risk potential, a new EIA procedure will begin. Only after the EIA decision has been given can the activities of the project continue. The construction procedure is scheduled to be announced at the end of 2018. This is our linear schedule, if everything is OAS or early 2019. The indicative value for the construction of this section is 150 million. Euros with VAT. The third section of Vratsa Mezdra is envisaged for rehabilitation and major repairs. There's no need for alienations, we're rehabilitating an existing route. At the beginning of 2018, the API will consider the following options: whether to start a designer selection procedure for the section of the four-band gauge or to plan a procedure for rehabilitation and major repair of engineering, for me personally the better option. The indicative value is 10 million. Euros. The fourth precinct, Mezdra, Botevgrad, is currently underway with the alienation procedures. There's a complete design ready. This is what you mentioned as a response to Minister Pavlova's previous questions by you and fellow MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Nankov. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply, although the situation with this important infrastructure project to date hardly satisfies anyone. Unfortunately, the lack of real governance will in recent years has led not only to the loss of funding opportunities but also to the loss of human lives. Only since the beginning of the year are dozens of violent road accidents and victims of them, the latter being 3 days ago. As small as it may be, the hope remains here I will quote journalist Lyubomir Yordanov that at last the dark entrance of the Northwest will become a corridor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Nankov, would you like a duplicate? No, thank you. We are moving on to the next issue by the National Representative Georgi Yachev Gokov on the state of state and municipal road infrastructure in the territory of Stara Zagora region. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u95	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Ministers! Dear Mr. Nankov, as you are aware, the state of the infrastructure of a country has a strong and serious impact on its economic development, both on economic growth and investment, and especially on foreign investment, on the welfare and welfare of the people, on the people. With the same force, all this also applies to the impact on the development of individual areas in this country. In Bulgaria, it can be said that the quality of the roads continues to seriously diverge the regions from each other in terms of their development. In the country 35-40 percent of the roads are of good quality on the road, while the rest of the roads are not. Less than half the roads are fine. Therefore, most of the questions in this Parliament, from the previous Parliament, and certainly in the future Parliament will refer to the road infrastructure in the country and will be with you. Although the road infrastructure on the territory of Stara Zagora is well developed, it remains seriously fragmented in terms of its quality. There are excellent roads, but there are also those in miserable condition. Roads in a miserable state have a negative impact on business in the region and its development. As a Member of Parliament from the 27th Multiannual Election Region of Stara Zagora, I have repeatedly asked questions about different roads from the district that are really in a miserable state and leave entire municipalities disadvantaged compared to the others. It is now the beginning of your mandate, and in this regard I asked you to give an update on the state of the state and municipal road infrastructure, and especially on the state of the road pavement in the whole Stara Zagora district. Please answer several questions which are: What measures and solutions for rehabilitation, new construction and improvement of the condition have you foreseen by the end of 2017? Which sections of the state and municipal road infrastructure in the area are in extremely poor condition, according to you and according to the Road Infrastructure Agency? Which of them are you planning to rehabilitate and repair by the end of 2017? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. The word is made by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nikolay Nankov. Here you go, Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, it will be very difficult for me to respond fully within 3 minutes. I'll leave you with a written reference to everything you ask as a question, be assured. The Republican roads on the territory of Stara Zagora region have a total length of 883 km, of which only 220 are really in a bad, unsatisfactory state. The rest are in the average grade of API is three-stage: good, medium and poor condition. The short-term measures to improve the state of the Republican road infrastructure in Stara Zagora are as follows. The current repair and maintenance of APIs continue the activities of repairing flooring and drainage of roads, restoration of drainage systems, replacement and repair of road signs, laying of horizontal marking. The construction of the 15 thousand floors has been carried out this year at Trakia Motorway. kv. m. on the territory of Stara Zagora district. Another 114 thousand have been proposed to perform. sq.m. for repair of the section from km 156 to km 170 and we are discussing opportunities to secure the necessary funds. According to gross accounts, 6 million. And 700,000. lv. We can find several major road sections of the Republican road network on the territory of Stara Zagora district, which are in poor transport and operational condition and need urgent repairs with funds beyond the limit set for ongoing repair and maintenance. First of all, this is the second-beautiful road Veliko Tarnovo, in the regulation of the town of Gurkovo, with an indicative value of 1 million. And 900 thousand BGN. with VAT. Secondly, the third-beautiful road Obrucishte "Galabovo," with a length of 15.7 km, with an estimated value of 4 million. And 800 thousand. lv. In third place, the third-class Sarnevo road "Pshenichevo " Khan Asparuh, 11 km long, with a value of 3 million. And 300,000. lv. In fourth place, the road Opan "Venets" "Secretary" - Galabovo, with a length of 16.1 km, with a value of 1 million. And 400,000. lv. In fifth place, the third-class road on the border of Regional Road Management Plovdiv "Opalchenets," with a length of 7,350 km, with an indicative value of almost 3 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Ninety-five thousand. lv. In sixth place, the third-class road Kazanlak, with a holding of almost 2 km, with an estimated estimated value of 950 thousand. lv. In seventh place, road 2-56 from Pavel Banya, in the section from road 1-6 to the town of Pavel Banya, with a length of 3,26 km. and the section to the village of Coria with indicative value of 3 million. And 600,000. lv. In eighth place, the second-class road Polski Gradets, with a length of 1 km. 500 meters, with a pre-emptive value of 600 thousand. lv. And in the last ninth place, as sections with the need for immediate repair, is the third-class road in the granite of the District Road Management Stara Zagora is Yambol, with estimated value of the repair 300 thousand. lv. The planned construction and construction works under the API programme in 2017 on the territory of the Regional Road Management "Stara Zagora" is mainly to complete a complement of the road hub "Plovdovitovo" during the crossing of the highway "Trakiya" and road III-666, changes of the tender procedure, selected contractor. The contract is worth 1 million. Seventy-one thousand. lv. The implementation period shall be 45 calendar days. In addition, in Stara Zagora, this is optimistic news, one positive news, according to the Operational Program "Regions in Growth" - that is, we have guaranteed funding, you know, included two whole road sections. Lot 1 "Travel II-57 Stara Zagora" Radnevo, with a length of almost 40 km, worth 28 million. lv. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Unfortunately, at the moment, the decision to elect an ISS builder is being appealed, but we need to see the appeal procedure, we will conclude a contract as quickly as possible, God willing to start 2017. I am finishing, Madam President. And Lot 19 Road III-663 Chirpan "Simeonovgrad," with a total length of 15 km worth 13 million. lv. Once again, we have an appeal and we are about to conclude a treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Nankov. Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Ministers! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. I take note of my mistake that perhaps the question should have been written because it contains a large amount of information and within three minutes you can hardly give me all the information. I would be extremely pleased if you would provide it in writing without asking a repeat question for a written answer. I just want to tell you that I am aware and Stara Zagoras are aware that in Stara Zagora district the roads are at a relatively good level, comparing them to the roads in other areas of the country. But the people who live up to those roads that are really in a terrible state... By the way, I listened carefully to your answer, but I did not hear about the municipality of Bratia Daskalovi, where the whole municipality relies on a 60km road that passes through the whole municipality and is in a very terrible state. They don't even want to make bread for these people. Mr. Minister, many things can be understood as being made of good-for-nothing when we talk about building as a principle, but you should know that people who live and communicate on these broken roads for years, the building starts from repairing these roads, not to break their cars, not to make dust and noise when passing cars and trucks from there, not to shake their houses. These are petty things, but they're important to these people because they get on the highway once a year, they don't, and these roads go daily, even two or three times a day. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to wish you to promise less than the previous minister and to carry out more than you promised, so that there are no labeled information signs of the Road Infrastructure Agency, this is in the circle of the joke, of course, but this joke is right in the ten, with such inscriptions of the kind of "Welcome to Mars"! You remember Ruse's way. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I wish you very much success in repairing the infrastructure and rehabilitating it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. For the duplicate, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nikolay Nankov. Here you go, Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I am really happy with the fact that you, I suppose, have evolved your political power in understanding that asphalt is not eaten, of course, but infrastructure, and road including, is a major part not only of infrastructure development, but is a prerequisite for the overall socio-economic development not only of Bulgaria but of individual regions. And, of course, reducing the disproportions between them. Thank you for your objective evaluation. Indeed, in Stara Zagora region, the Republican road network is in significantly better condition than most of the districts in Northern Bulgaria, for example. Here, also colleague Mirchev in Silistra, and Krasi Yankov in Dobrich, and Ivanov in Shumen would ask the same questions. We have a respectable approach which, I am convinced, is even slightly above political, which would lead to the creation of a sustainable road sector in terms of its ability to self-finance itself and not rely on permanent government budget deposits, on external sources, whether it is borrowed or under European funds. This is precisely the mixed model of TOL fees and electronic wineries. The faster we introduce the model, the faster we will have the necessary resources. At the moment, it's 300 million. lv. the revenue from wineries and the necessary resource on an annual basis is more than 800 million. BGN, in order to be able to respond and take real commitments not only to the MPs and to you, Mr. Gokov, to the Stara Zagora region, but to all others, because the needs in the third-class and second-class, and why not in a small part of the first-class roads in the country, the roads from the Republican road network are really huge. And second of all, what you're saying is really going to be our main goal. A little more general answer in the back. Quality spending of the resource is very important. In quantitative terms, I have mentioned what the mechanism is and what our long-term vision is - tolls and electronic wineries, but quality and efficient use of financial resources is also our main objective and we must have economies of scale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Nankov. We move on to the last question for the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The question is from the MP Stoyan Mihaylov Mirchev, about the construction of the Regional Waste Water Treatment Station. Silistra. Here you are, Mr. Mirchev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u103	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, at the beginning I will open a clamp yes, there are good roads in the Silistren region, but there are also in a very difficult state that we will deal with through control, so that I can pay attention to you, so that the road network can improve. I will introduce you in a few words about the economic situation of Silistra region before I go into depth. The district of Silistra is the poorest district: the lowest gross domestic product; the smallest percentage employed at active age of less than 36%; the public-private investment is 0%; it has the worst demographic profile in the country, the mechanical growth is negative with 2000 people has decreased in four years the district; each year it is closed at one school or kindergarten. My specific question is related to the district treatment plant. The Municipality of Silistra has implemented a project under Operational Programme Silistra. The amount of the grant of free financial assistance is 70 million. BGN, of which 24 are for a treatment plant. The implementation ends in May 2016, when the treatment plant is put into operation and the actual water company operator in Silistra has to take over. So far, this does not happen, provided that one year before the completion of the project in 2015 the water service has been notified in order to initiate a procedure for preparation, calculation of the price, training and other procedures. My question to you is: why hasn't the water treatment plant been transferred to the water treatment plant until today? Is there an opinion of the Ministry that you are in charge of? And is there a clue to taking action on the transfer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. The word is made by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nikolay Nankov. Here you go, Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mirchev, according to the provisions of Chapter 11 of the Water Act, the territory of the country for the needs of the management, planning and construction of water systems and facilities and the provision of water services is divided into separate areas. The management of the water systems is carried out by the Association of Water and Water in these territories, and in the case of Silistra District, the Association of Water and Water in the separate territory is served by On 1 March 2016 was concluded a Contract for the management, maintenance and operation of the water systems and facilities and the provision of water supply and sewerage services between the Association of Water and Water and Silistra, and The construction of a district sewage treatment plant Silistra, the completion of a sewer network and partial reconstruction of the water supply network of Silistra. The Silistra, which you mentioned, are public-municipal property. According to the provisions of the signed contract, in cases where one of the members of the association creates or acquires public assets, such as the present case, after the date of entry into force of the contract between the association and the water operator, the water operator association shall provide those assets to the operator after having several conditions, be put into service in accordance with the legislation in force, or fully completed, that is the current hypothesis. In cases where the assets are not drawn up in a format 16 Protocol or no authorisation is granted under the law in force, this is not the present case. The first hypothesis concerns Silistra. All documentation relating to the incurred assets of the construction paper, technical passport and other documents necessary for the management, maintenance and operation of the assets should be provided by the owner of the assets of the water supply operator by means of a reception and transmission protocol. A Commission decision on energy and water regulation for the approval of the operator's business plan and its price of services, as well as the management, operation and maintenance costs of the Regional water treatment plant, is necessary for the transmission of the Regional water treatment plant. A well-known fact! On 16 May 2017 the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of KEWRC was held a public consultation of the business plan of the Bulgarian Energy and Water Regulatory Agency (Silistra) for the period 2017 - 2020 and the proposed price of water and water services in the regulatory period, including the costs of the management, operation and maintenance of the Regional Water Treatment Station (Silistra). The KEWRC's decision to approve the operator's business plan and its prices are expected to be approved, such are indications from the Commission, and to enter into force at the beginning of June 2017, that is, in less than two weeks. In response to your question about the transmission of the Regional Waste Water Treatment Station, I inform you that all necessary actions have been taken within these three weeks, since I am a minister, and the final settlement of the issue of its transmission will be resolved after the decision of the KEWRC, which I mentioned in June 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Nankov. Mr. Mirchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u107	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Thank you for the detailed information. I understand that the appropriate actions have been taken to transfer from the municipality to the Association of Water and Water. What worries me is the delay, because this delay of a month cost the municipality about 50 thousand leva, that is, it is a year. This is a lot of money, more than half a million levs, given that the training had completed 2016 already, the station entered into operation in May 2016, the municipality, as I said, so I paid attention at the beginning, is usually one of the poorest and this money could go to kindergartens, which have a shortage, for playgrounds that are not renovated, for children's kitchens, for sports clubs. Personally, it bothers me, since information came out that the water in Silistra would increase by 30 percent since 2001, is there a fault for this and this delay, which burdened the municipality with 500-600 thousand leva, is there any way to compensate for this appreciation? If you look at the statistics, in Silistra Municipality the average salary is twice as low as in the country. And this 30 percent will put a large part of households in an inability to pay off their debts to the water service. I am pleased that appropriate action has been taken, but with this delay, households will also be burdened. I hope that keeping you the Ministry will find the appropriate levers to be able to compensate this price and not to burden households, again, in an area where the economic situation of the Bulgarian may be in the worst condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Dear Minister, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Mirchev! I'll graduate maybe. Not to start with the logic of pricing, as you have paid attention to the pricing in the current case Mr. Genov and Mr. Kostadinov can explain a little more in detail. Two things! First of all, the delay in reception and transmission by the municipality to the Regional Operator, the Water Operator, is not solely on account and due to the fault of the Water Operator. On the contrary, our information, what we have as a reference from Silistra Bulgaria, is precisely the incomplete documentation from Silistra Municipality, which has been imported twice so far. I mentioned everything's been cleared. In two weeks we were able to correct all the documents that Silistra municipality had not prepared. Currently the KEWRC will change the business plan and will calculate respectively the costs of operation, maintenance and management of the relevant station, respectively in the cost of water. Not the delay and operation, rather the maintenance by the municipality for this year is the reason for raising the price, for the proposal to increase the cost of water, as the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission will nevertheless decide whether or not it will rise. The year is not 2001 but 2021. Within this five-year period of this business plan, such an increase has been proposed, but it is precisely coming as a small part of it, precisely because of the fact that the water supply Silistra must operate, maintain, manage this treatment plant. We know that the maintenance, the operation of the treatment facilities, the treatment of waste water is calculated through the cost of water. They are therefore costs to the operator itself, to the water company itself. As regards the socio-economic indicators in Silistra, I fully agree with you. The information you leaked is correct. I just have to say that the sector is regulated, socially regulated, we have social tolerance for the cost of water. In Silistra district, we are not yet on the upper thresholds, as they say. Yes, you are! You remember 2015 this social tolerance threshold was reduced from 4 to 2,5 percent of households' income in the area concerned. The latest decision... we got a little deeper on the topic..The price of water... is of KEWRC. The fact is that this infrastructure, built with European funds, needs to be exploited, maintained and respected through it to provide a quality service to the population, residents of Silistra Municipality, through the cost of water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Nankov. This ended the questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nikolay Nankov. Let's thank him for his participation. We are moving on to questions to the Minister of Health Nikolai Petrov. The first question is a question by the National Representative Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova about the distribution of funds for hospital care between the various districts in the country. Here you are, Mrs. Klisarova. You have three minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u111	Dear Madam President, honourable Professor Petrov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! This issue is very up-to-date, and I am putting this question to the table because it was yesterday which is why I thank you very much, discussed with the Committee on Health. A very serious and sick issue concerning very small, large, state and municipal hospitals in the country. We all know that there is tension at the moment about the contracts between hospitals and the relevant regional health insurance funds. I want to give you a statistic that from 2009 to now from nearly two billion for health care is allocated three and a half billion. Or every year, we're 200 million more health care funds, but unfortunately, it's not a good result. Why is this happening? Therefore, because many new technologies have entered the healthcare system, and these technologies are costly, high-tech and Bulgarian citizens are entitled to this treatment. I must say that in just the last three years, linear thrusters have increased by 27. Very modern, very high-tech equipment that is mandatory for treatment in oncology. There are two new hospitals, you know, in Pleven and Panagyurishte, and some hospitals have expanded their volume of work. That is why the funds in healthcare continue and will not reach. And what did you get in practice? For this quarter and for this year 2017, the limits fell to between 5 and 10 per cent for the various hospitals. It creates tension. Secondly, which creates tension: how has the register allocated to different hospitals different limits? We observe that in state and municipal hospitals the limits are reduced to 10 percent, and in other hospitals are preserved or even increased. Citizens of the district of Varna, but many other districts then called me that they were worried about this situation and that is why the question is: on what principle are the budgets of regional health insurance funds in the different areas of the country and in particular, how is the budget of the Regional Health Insurance Fund Varna defined? What is the disproportion in the payment of hospital care between the various districts of the country? I want to tell you about Varna and about the districts there are up to ten differences from one hospital to another after all Bulgarian citizens pay the same health insurance contributions. Please, Professor Petrov to take action for a fair distribution of medical care funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u112	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisarova. There's a word for it. Nikolay Petrov "Made Minister of Health." Here you are, Mr. Petrov. You have five minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Klisarova, we have long discussed this topic with you both interpersonally and yesterday in the Committee on Health. I can give you a detailed answer, I can give you a short answer. Which one do you prefer?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u114	Make it the short answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u115	The detailed answer concerns the different periods, but ultimately the principle is that the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund distributes the budgets of regional cases and they make the allocation based on established, reported and paid-up activities in the past. [[Relations from the National Representative Anelia Klisarova.]] It's a historical principle! I will definitely give you my answer. By periods have been broken.. starts from December and March, but with this will bore the audience. Needless to repeat the same thing about different periods. There's one detail. By Decision of 20 December 2016, the Supervisory Board of the NHIF set monthly values for the RHIF over there becomes the distribution of hospital aid contractors under Annex 2 and Annex 1. All of this is done on the basis of a monthly average and paid value for past tense. The Director of the Cashier shall be appointed by 15 January to submit a proposal for a methodology on which this allocation is made. The Supervisory Board distributes to the RHIFs, the RHIFs, make monthly adjustments and where they need to be added or reduced, out of 1 million. 200,000. lv. More or less underfinancing, which is statistically small and could be taken over by the reserve. I'll send you all the written answers so I don't bore the whole audience. However, I would like to draw attention to the following. On 23 February this year, at a joint meeting of the NHIF and the Management Board of the Doctor's Union, the National Framework Treaty was signed, setting the expected monthly cost of hospital care to be no more than 133 million. It is also determined at an annual amount of 1 billion 600 million. Well, well, well... This estimate shows a shortage of 3 million. 900,000. BGN, which is the so-called "3 per cent under-financing." However, please note when signing this contract the condition that if there is an excess of hospital aid, medical devices and so on will be agreed at adjusted prices in the framework of the funds concerned. This definitely bothers me because it is a commitment to correct the prices of clinical pathways and medical activities. The other answer is details, I will give you the whole written answer, but I think the problem is buried in this. Your question is absolutely legitimate, I've asked myself that many times. Perhaps this will enter into your responsibilities and duties as MPs, because you claim the laws to rule on it. Is this going to be the number of medical institutions, or the number of people? Then the question would arise: should patients from one area go to another because there are more hospitals? It's rhetorical, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u116	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Klisarova, come in for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much, Professor. Petrov, because very precisely, clearly and specifically explained or put on the table the problem, which is very important and very difficult to solve. I'm not going to ask any further questions, because yesterday, about an hour ago, we discussed how the problem could be solved. I would like to stress here that the responsibility lies not only with the Minister of Health, there is a great responsibility with the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund and a great responsibility with the Minister of Finance. I think that in March, there is a letter in which the Finance Minister answers that it is impossible to pay them because there is no money to pay the over-limit funds, which are around 19 million for 2016, and this is a real activity. So what's going on? We say: "The hospitals have obligations! " - No hospitals have obligations, this is their medical activity. They have not been paid since April last year precisely this subliminal activity, which is established and specified. It's very important to know that it has to be done. And second of all, we've said very correctly, and with prof. Petrov, we talked.. patients should go to the hospital where they want, where they will receive quality and adequate treatment, and not to a hospital where there are limits. We have to follow the principle of money following the patient and not which hospital has limits and how these limits are allocated. That's why, Professor. Petrov, I'm summarizing and I'm asking you to know that we need 188 million. Let this 188 million together with the Finance Minister, together with the Supervisory Board, be granted by the Casa Reserve. There's that money in the safe deposit box. Thus, the problem will be resolved very quickly. This is very important because underfinancing of hospitals will lead to bankruptcy, especially of small municipal hospitals. We'll lose the hospitals, we'll lose the human potential that's in this hospital. Who needs the bankruptcy of a small-town municipal hospital?! And for large hospitals it is extremely difficult, because the state, district hospitals and university hospitals are taking on the worst cases of the whole region. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u118	Thank you, dear Professor. Klisarova. Answer? [[Reply from Minister Nikolai Petrov.]] Okay, thank you. We move on to the second issue by the MP Georgi Yordanov Yordanov, concerning the failure to comply with Decision No RD-NS-04-17 of 17 January 2017 of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF. Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u119	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Apparently, when we talk about health care, unfortunately, we're not talking about medicine, we're talking about money. It's the time. Thank you, Professor. Klisarova and Minister Petrov because they introduced the topic. With regard to overcoming the adverse consequences of limiting the payment of medical activities carried out by hospital care facilities for 2016. The Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund has decided to pay them, which has not yet been paid. My question is: why has Decision No 4 of 17 January 2017 of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund not been implemented and what are the specific actions taken by you in this regard?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u120	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. The word is made by the Minister of Health. Nikolai Petrov. Here you go. Three minutes for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Assoc. Yordanov, your question is legitimate because this decision has been taken and there is a time limit for its implementation. Chronologically, things are developing in such a way that this is the case for the over-liminal activity for the period April 2016. This commitment was made by Minister Moskov, as I recall, the arguments for this were the expectations of the funds that would be saved from the fingerprint identifier. Such a report and precise figures I have not seen yet.. for the benefit, although from the temporary use of the identifier. I'll fight to see a result no matter what it is. The value of these payments: for hospital care $700,000. BGN, for medical devices " 406 thousand. lv. On 27 January this year, the Supervisory Board decided to update this thing and proceed to payment. Instructs the NHIF manager to validate the allocation of funds. On 1 February the NHIF sent a letter to the Minister of Finance to approve this payment. The reply from the Minister of Finance was received on 6 February, in which the Ministry of Finance does not support this idea of the NHIF. The arguments are very well written. This is also the letter of Minister Kiril Ananiev [[shows the letter]] and they relate to the provision of 50 million in January's budget. BGN, which have been old since 2016, plus implementation for 2017, and plus those subliminals for 2016. The amount becomes too much. However, the Supervisory Board has taken steps to implement this payment in a decision taken. This did not happen by their explanation in connection with the signing of the National Framework Treaty with a date of April 1st this year. From now on, there is a deadline in which, yesterday, I spoke with Minister Goranov, an analysis will be made of why now. Just yesterday, if I'm not mistaken, or the other day we made the changes to the Cashier's Supervisory Board, and we need to do very precise analyses, data that I still can't get to make bills and decide on a possible unblocking of part of the reserve and pay off that 19 million. lv. But the problem, Assoc. Yordanov is not in them, although this is not a small amount. The problem is much bigger. It was reviewed yesterday by the Health Committee. If I do analogies years back, as if it became chronic May.. June always to have tension, always to touch the reserve. And in this order of thought I hope that by the beginning of September we will be ready for concrete proposals and when the budget for next year is being made, so that we will not allow next year, I am looking for the word, what should I call it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u122	You'll have a chance in the back to finish, Mr. Secretary. Thank you to the Minister of Health. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u123	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Professor Petrov, we all think that the whole Bulgarian people are aware of the heavy inheritance that you fell for to clean up this mess. You used the right word. In this case, however, there is a very different speech. At the beginning of this year, when funds were to be paid for the activity carried out in December, which was paid in January, completely unfounded and without any justification, the Health Insurance Fund limited the activity In order to ease the tensions in hospitals then she said, the Supervisory Board took this decision in which it said: yes, but this money will be compensated by paying off this over-liminal activity that you mentioned for the same period, which is about 19 million. lv. for all hospitals in Bulgaria. I think that even then, the financiers who deal with health care, as if they knew that this money would not be paid. Yeah, the hospitals were calmed down. The decision has not been fulfilled. However, yesterday at our discussion in the Health Commission, I cannot accept the behaviour of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, who said: "I want to be condemned by the justice system of the Republic to pay for this money. What does it mean? A manager of the Health Insurance Fund, who implements decisions of the Supervisory Board of the Health Insurance Fund to carry it out, says he must be convicted and then will execute it. I do not accept such behaviour and such communication between administrators in the healthcare system. I think I don't want to use the word, but by law, the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund's Supervisory Board must be disciplined. I'm worried right now because there's no medical education in the new council. Yes, it will probably work very well when it comes to financial efficiency, but when it comes to medical need, for people like us who have sworn by the Hippocratic oath, I think there will be a shortage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u124	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. For your answer, Mr. Minister, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u125	Dear Assoc. Yordanov, you are absolutely right about this. It is a temporary decision until the quarantine period of the two Deputy Ministers is over. I have the ambition of two deputy ministers to be in Oversight. They have medical education and qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the third question by the National Representative Elena Nikolova Yoncheva and Violeta Ruseva Zheleva regarding the increase of radiological performance of drinking water in the town of Haskovo. Here you are, Mrs. Yoncheva, so you can develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u127	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, MPs! My question is to the Minister of Health. Nikolai Petrov. Mr. Petrov, who is personally responsible for the fact that residents of the town of Haskovo for a very long period of time have consumed water with increased levels of radioactivity? Will you seek administrative responsibility from the Chief State Health Inspector Dr. Angel Kunchev for withholding information and criminal negligence, resulting in increased levels of radioactivity in drinking water? I would just like to remind you that from this tribune some time ago we raised the issue of political responsibility that three of the ministers in the previous government of Boyko Borisov should bear because the Regional Health Inspection in Haskovo had to monitor the drinking water at the end-user after the Swimming Directorate has established an increase, and at times, the radioactivity standards in part of the underground waters of the town of Haskovo. And according to Regulation No 9 on the purity of drinking water, such monitoring had to be carried out. Unfortunately, we did not get an answer to who will bear the political responsibility and therefore my question to you, Professor. Petrov, is: who will bear personal responsibility for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u128	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yoncheva. The answer is given by the Minister of Health. Nikolai Petrov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u129	Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Yoncheva! Under the Water Act and the Health Act, the Ministry of Health has the competence in the 28 regional health inspections to monitor the quality of water in the consumer. The pool directorate is the one responsible for the quality of water in the underground, in surface water bodies and so on. In this sense, health inspections do not have the obligation, responsibility and rights to monitor the quality of water in groundwater bodies. As far as I know, there is such a throwing, but the first information in RZI Haskovo, the first letter on the existence of increased alpha activity and uranium was received on 4 April 2017. In absolutely short terms and according to absolutely all the rules the Ministry of Health with its structures, especially RZIs, has done its job. If you want, I can read them to you verbatim, if you want, I can send them to you in the written reply to see them by taking the recommendations described in the Rules of Procedure for stopping drinking and cooking. This process is developing, as you know. It's not just Haskovo anymore. At the level of government, a decision was taken and 2 million were granted. lv. for Haskovo, but there are other settlements where this problem exists. He's very strange, I think. On the one hand, I will go to the trouble of seeing and getting acquainted with the period when the new norms were signed. You are well aware that there are countries in the European Union that do not take these reference values. We have a mass of expert opinions on what you call the danger that it is nothing. We are currently waiting for the response of a group of experts from the World Health Organisation, which will very likely be in the same direction. However, the facts say that there is pollution, that measures should be taken. I would like to use this tribune and call for details of responsibility, because the responsibility of the Ministry of Health is to control and give recommendations. There's an Interdepartmental Group, there's a Parliamentary Commission. The President of the Commission is an extremely active person. I've met him five times. The guy's looking for a solution. I very much hope that this Commission will come up with a proposal for a solution, but at the same time, I am worried because all issues are at the Health Ministry, and our function is controlling and recommended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u130	Thank you, dear Minister. Line, Mrs. Yoncheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u131	Dear Minister, indeed such a letter was sent on 4 April 2017, but the information that was in this letter on radioactive pollution of the groundwater of the town of Haskovo came out on the website of the Ministry of Environment and Water as early as 15 January 2017. 15 January 2017. This information was also accessed by the Regional Health Inspectorate Haskovo. Moreover, the Swimming Directorate was not obliged to send this letter. I spoke to the gentleman who signed the letter. He said it was sent beyond any legal requirement because information about contaminated groundwater was published on the Ministry's website. This is the report. [[shows]] actually published on 15 January 2017. That is, four months after it was known about these values, the Regional Health Inspection has not taken any measures, and these measures have been recorded In para. 5, t. 1 and 2 is said that once such elevated radiological standards of groundwater have been established, RGIs should, together with the water supply, identify the discrepancies and take appropriate measures. I'll give you a copy, if you want, from this Ordinance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u132	I got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u133	Yes, thank you. Here the prosecution will say whether it is a crime, but in any case it is criminal negligence and withholding information. Whether this was deliberately concealed, or whether it was negligence, I can't say. The information was not known on 4 April, I repeat, but on 15 January 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u134	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yoncheva. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u135	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Yoncheva! In the communication of these control bodies, there are very clear regulations. Who posted what on their website does not mean the other's obligation to monitor what the respective directorate has published on the website. See, I haven't even read the health department website today. That is, there are clearly written rules for communication and for the movement of information. You are putting the question and you are absolutely right that this is one missed period of time that puts the health of the population at risk. Fortunately, the health of the population is not at risk, because the values are extremely low, and that is what all medical expertise is saying. But it's a communication gap anyway, we won't let it happen again. One of the things that will recommend the parliamentary Commission, which investigates this case, will be precisely this: clearly defined rules from now on who informs whom, at what level, within what time it reacts, with what competence and with what responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u136	Thank you, dear Minister. That was the last question. [[Reply from the National Representative Elena Yoncheva.]] No, you can't. The procedure is over. Thank you to the Minister of Health. Nikolai Petrov. We move on to questions to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Mr. Rumen Porozhanov. The first question is the MP Georgi Yanchev Gokov regarding the practice of companies to offer goods of the same brand and packaging, but with different ingredients in the old and new members of the European Union. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Ministers! Dear Mr. Porozhanov, the question I am asking, you know what provoked it and you are probably aware that 90% of the Bulgarians are convinced that the goods on the Bulgarian market, which are sold are of worse quality than those in the Central European countries, even when they are produced by the same company and have the same brand and packaging. It turns out, however, that other countries and nations feel the same way. Recently, information appeared in the media that Slovakia criticises food-producing companies that divide class users and the Slovak Ministry of Agriculture, the likeness of our Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, has accused several international food companies that they have unethical actions and use lower quality ingredients for products intended for Slovakia, compared to the foods they sell in richer Western neighbours. Slovak consumer organisations complain that popular brands use lower quality ingredients. The Agriculture Ministry in Bratislava said it wants to unite with other countries, mainly from Eastern Europe, in order to take action before the European Union to end the practices of companies offering the same brands and packaging, but with different ingredients in, conditionally speaking, the old and new members of the European Union. Mr. Minister, they follow the natural questions that every Bulgarian citizen would ask himself after getting acquainted with this information. These questions are basically related to this: the Bulgarian authority, which monitors the quality of food on the Bulgarian market, has the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency established similar practices on the Bulgarian food market? If there are such findings, please share them in the answer to my question and make them public. If so far the Agency has not worked in this direction, will you order to do one of the most general comparative analyses in this direction? Would you respond on behalf of the Bulgarian State to the call of the Slovak Agricultural Ministry for united actions in front of Europe? What other measures will you take to end the practice of companies offering the same brands and packaging with different ingredients in the EU member states? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u138	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Mr. Rumen Porozhanov has the floor. You have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, the question is extremely current and interesting. I will submit further information to what you have presented. Undoubtedly, the Slovak Ministry, the Slovak Government's finding of the difference in the qualities of identical products sold on the western market to certain countries and in particular in Slovakia has given rise to a great deal of interest. A little information. In the last few years, in free trade, fears of the so-called phenomenon of dual quality of foods with the same label are growing. These products are sold in different countries of the European Union, often by the same producer. At a meeting of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council held on 8 March this year, it is proposed that the agricultural ministers of the Member States be kept informed of the development of the request made to the European Union authorities for consumer protection to address issues related to the difference of food quality. At a meeting held on 16 March this year in Brussels within the Committee established by the Consumer Protection Cooperation Regulation, representatives of the Slovak Republic, of Hungary, the Czech Republic and Croatia have informed of ongoing and ongoing studies and confirmed the existence of such findings, as in the Slovak case. In relation to the data submitted by other EU Member States related to differences in food quality, a working group under the auspices of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency was established in Bulgaria on 13 March this year, which will carry out a market study or prepare an analysis for the definition of food groups and indicators as a first step, which should be subject to laboratory testing. The working group shall draw up an action plan including specific measures based on the results of the analysis. I'll tell you what's done later. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has conducted a study on the Bulgarian food market produced by the same producer offered in different Member States and the aim of the study in this case is to prepare an analysis and determine the food groups and indicators to be subject to laboratory testing. The list includes five groups of foods - chocolate products, soft drinks and fruit juices, dairy products, meat products and children's foods. These are foods produced in Germany, Switzerland, Italy, Austria, Denmark, the Netherlands, France. At one of the meetings of the working group were invited and participated leading external experts, representatives of the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis at the Ministry of Health, which discussed the criteria for comparative analysis and capacity of laboratories in the country to carry out these analyses. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has also accepted the invitation of the Consumer Protection Commission to join its initiative and the Federation of Consumers in Bulgaria to establish the information about the double standard provided in the media. We're at a stage that starts on May 22nd. This is food sampling directly from the market of old Member States, which will take place on a schedule from 22 May to 30 June this year. This timetable is presented to the Commission for Consumer Protection and the Federation of Consumers with a proposal to take action.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u140	Mr. Porozhanov, get your bearings.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u141	Okay. Two words for the schedule. The sampling of goods is pending in two of the Member States which are an element of the list presented. I'll give you further details. The same goods to be taken from our market and tested by indicators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u142	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u143	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! Mr. Porozhanov, I am pleasantly surprised that you have taken some action because you have recently become a minister, and you have started such actions in establishing differences in food. I asked the question as to a minister responsible for food, because the differences are in all goods, but it seems the most offensive is in terms of food. It is not enough that the Bulgarian does not normally eat quality food because of the king's poverty, but even when he affords to buy something more markety, he comes across a double standard, as if he were a second quality person. I am pleased that you have taken action on this matter. However, in your words, I can't tell what these actions are, are they correct, are they sufficient? Time will show this, but please do not stop working in this direction because 90% of Bulgarians are convinced that this is the case. Any blurryness of the problem won't satisfy them. It's a matter of principle and importance. Although we are new member states, we are not second-hand people. There is a common market and such an approach is unethical, not moral. We can order many more epithets, but it is unacceptable for producers to divide into two categories, into two classes, all the more so that the prices of goods sold on the Bulgarian market are hardly lower than those on foreign markets. A two-speed Europe seems to have already been decided. We once again squat before the heads of the privileged countries in Brussels. But only for the food to take it for two standards that seem to come in excess of the Bulgarians! The Bulgarian hates injustice the most! In the final, I would recommend that you establish contact with the Slovak Ministry and see what common actions can be taken, because it is hardly the European Union and Brussels that tolerate such behaviour by companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Here you go, Mr. Minister. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u145	Thank you. I'm absolutely solidarity with what you're saying. I must point out that the actions were taken before I took office as Minister. As early as March, the Food Agency came forward. The effective way is to build an efficient method so that this problem is resolved within the framework of uniform control within the European Union. Our research, which we believe will confirm the study of other countries, will be an additional argument and information in this direction to avoid this double standard. In some of the goods even the parameters that are described differ. Otherwise, the brand and the name are exactly the same. Let me also show our analysis of the price of the same currency in comparable currencies. What comes out to us will be announced. The debate in Brussels is open at the level of the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u146	Thank you, dear Minister. Moving to a second issue by the National Representative Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova on the adoption of projects under the Rural Development Programme 2014 " 2020" in 2017. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u147	Dear lady. Chairman, ministers gentlemen, colleagues! My question concerns the need to get up-to-date information on what will be the indicative timetable of the adoption work programme under the measures under the Rural Development Programme. What I did as a reference, I saw that in September such a schedule was published and December was updated. At this time, what was envisaged at the beginning of the year.. to be considered and adopted, respectively, as projects, is not implemented. My question to you is related, firstly, will we have an updated project acceptance schedule, and will this schedule be accurate enough to be implemented for the periods and months in which it will be adopted accordingly? How will it be accepted by you, will it be with the Monitoring Committee? Perhaps you should clarify it, as different procedures also require a different time for its adoption. And in relation to the projects under the Rural Development Programme, I am interested in what is the state of absorption of funds under the Programme so far. As you know, according to the Regulation, our country must pay back in 2018 on projects under the measures concerned, but also achieve the intermediate objectives set in the Programme. Failure to achieve these objectives leads to a loss of funds under a condition, of course, but this is still a problem that needs to be analysed as early as 2017. Moreover, there are measures of the fourth year where projects have not begun to be adopted... we are talking about measure 6.4.......................................... in support of non-farm activities.................................................................................................................................................................................. We are also talking about the forest measures that there are not even draft regulations. We're talking about the animal welfare measure, there's a draft regulation. In this regard, my question is: is there a risk of loss of funds that will be realised in 2018 accordingly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u148	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. The answer is given within three minutes by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Mr. Rumen Porozhanov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u149	Thanks again. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Bachvarova! Yeah, there's a delay in the indicative schedule. It's not even a secret, if you will, without saying it with any intent, in the last three months in the caretaker government, it wasn't even working on the regulation for 4.2, even on anything. Today, that is the only reason, no doubt. The indicative schedule is already ready as updated and will be uploaded to the website of the State Fund............................................................................................................................................ Now, when I get back, I want to look at it one last time. Of course, it combines the possibility to open all the measures that are ready, those that will be up to date this year with the preparation of regulations that must be completed and, of course, with the capacity of the Paying Agency to be able to accept and process these projects relatively within deadlines. When I say "comparatively" in terms of time it is no secret that due to the great interest in applying in the regulations within three months this is impossible. That is why there is a draft regulation on forest measures at the moment. Yeah, he wasn't made public. That's where it's gonna start. Last measure 4.2 needs to be updated to be opened in early August September, but all of this will be uploaded to the page in order to be predictable when applying. Our aim is to resume in a good rhythm the turnover of taking measures, processing and, of course, all this will contribute to a good performance and payment on time. I'm moving on to the second part of your question in terms of risks. The first check will be in 2018, there we need to have nearly 503 million spent under the rule. Euros. Up to now, 284 million have been used. Euros. In the context of 2018, I can now tell you that there will be no problem. However, a problem may arise in 2019 because there are immediately another one jumping between 400 and 500 million. euros that should already be closed within the year. Therefore, the implementation of the absorption of funds, of course, by all rules and requirements, must turn the turnover very, very well. Of course, the aim was in the previous two years to give priorities to the most attractive measures from the point of view of creating an overrated value in agriculture, which were for the production and processing of agricultural production. A little further back remains the measure for non-farming activities. Non-farming activities may be placed on the indicative schedule with the relevant Ordinance at the end of this year. Of course, it would be very helpful here. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Shall I finish?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u150	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u151	It is also very useful to debate the problems that have emerged, so, of course, combined in the Programme where we should have priority, not to be thrown back into the so-called............. for tourism, for photovoltaics... and for others. This should focus on real production in small rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u152	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u153	Honourable Madam President, Ministers! Mr. Porozhanov, thank you for your answer. The first thing I want you to do as a commitment is this schedule, which will be published by the end of the day, anyway you have shown it what it is about, to make the firm commitment that will not be changed, because you know that every project that is being implemented requires a huge effort, a huge amount of information, and if we go back to the hypothesis of constantly delaying deadlines, you know that this leads to serious problems for those who apply. Secondly, I did not get an answer to the question about the risk of using the funds. You said 503 million. EUR must be paid back, there is no problem for 2018, by 2018, we also need to prove the achievement of the interim objectives of the Programme under measures. However, seeing the information that is public and which you have, respectively, seems to me that there may be a problem there, and that, after that, leads to serious communication and difficulties with the European Commission regarding the suspension of one measure or another, with regard to the advances that have been received. This is also a topic that should now begin to be the subject of your attention in order not to get shocks. We have experience from the first programming period, when at the last moment we were solving the issues so we wouldn't lose money and there were therefore quite serious problems. Furthermore, my request is indeed the draft regulations that concern and will regulate the basic requirements for those who prepare the projects to be prepared in good time, public enough to have all the equal opportunities to apply and prepare, as they believe it is necessary to do in order to have some successful projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u154	Thank you very much, Professor. Bachvarova. Here you go, Mr. Minister. You've got two minutes for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u155	Thank you. I certainly make a commitment that the indicative timetable as it will go up for this year will be respected. I also agree with you that in specific cases when opening the receptions there was not enough time between regulation and reception and so on, this will not be allowed. There will be no less than 4 weeks from the issuance of a regulation, order, and the reception itself will always be with ready instructions for the application of the relevant criteria, and of course, the readiness of the Paying Agency within the functionality of the IACS to be able to accept. With regard to the mid-term analysis at the end of 2018 on the implementation of the Programme, yes, it has its aspects and in terms of the implementation of indicators, of the reserve contained in the measures. I'm open to communicating with you and operationally. What needs to be done within the absorption and execution of the indicators will analyze it. We'll take action where we need to. We've already started this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u156	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we have two questions for Mr. Porozhanov and one question for Mr. Karanikolov. It's almost time for a break. I say we get all the questions out of the way without taking a break. Thank you. We move on to the third question by the MP Dora Ilieva Yankova about the state of the Bulgarian forest. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u157	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Porozhanov, my question is about the state of the Bulgarian forest. Three years approximately at this time I raise the question of the state of the Bulgarian forest. Here stands Mrs. Taneva and knows about what I alerted not on my own grounds, but on the alarm of the Rhodopeans, the people, the representatives of the guild who deal with the forest. Unfortunately, two years missed many things related to activities to preserve the forest from drying. Mr. Minister, in the last two years the drying has gone in much larger sizes than the effects of insect pests, abiotic factors, there is no dispute, and the climate. We can't go around the human factor either. Next, people are interested in what measures are being taken by your ministry and, naturally, on the vertical down. We know that these are delegated functions of enterprises on the ground? my electoral area, the South Central State enterprise, in order to be able to preserve especially the Rhodope forest and the forest as a whole in the country, to be able to reproduce because there is no dispute that there must be a logging to remove the coroner. Parallel to this, such as stop-winders, as people related to the economy, to the country's holding, and the forest is also part of this, for the timely absorption of damaged wood. I ask your answer at the beginning of your term as Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u158	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Mr. Rumen Porozhanov has the floor. Here you are, Mr. Porozhanov, for a response within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Yankova! You're putting me in specialized matter, so I'm going to give you the information that I have at my disposal. In the last two years there has actually been an increase in damage to the coniferous forests, which is observed mostly in the Eastern Rhodopes, Kardzhaliyska and Smolyan districts, as well as in Kyustendilska, Pernishka and Sofia. Damages are expressed in drying, mainly of artificially created forests, and are the result of attacks by insects, pests and diseases, and in 2016 the rate of attack on the Corodies has increased more than three times. The natural disaster in March 2015 in the Rhodope Mountains was also affected by their spread, which was particularly large. On the part of a South Central State enterprise, timely organizational action has been taken for the urgent collection and realization of damaged wood. As a result of these measures, more than 1 million have been used. Cube. meters of fallen wood or 95% of available inventory mass, as well as this year continues the work in the most affected by the disaster state and forestry farms. The most effective forest protection measure to limit the development of stem pests is the logging of the trees attacked and the cleaning of the waste thereof. Other pest control measures are laying down hunting trees, peeling the bark of trees during their cocoon development and limiting logging in these areas. Prevention requires that wood materials are not left in the clearings during the summer period for more than one month, which is being applied at the moment and that the cuttings are being cleaned from waste and logging. On the basis of the lesopathological forecast in 2017 for the absorption of the barked wood, sanitary logging on 7,900 hectares, of which 3,900 hectares are state-owned forests. According to data from state forest farms, the volume of wood dried from corundums in state forests is 230 thousand. Cube. meters, and at the end of April, 28% of them have been obtained and implemented, and 758 hectares have been released. The artificial renewal of these areas will take place if it is found that the processes of natural renewal in them are difficult or not feasible in the three-year period regulated by the Forest Act. In the forest territories, permanent lesopathological monitoring is carried out to establish the dynamics of the development of the population of the corals, by betting pheromones such as in 2017 in the regions of Smolyan, Kardzhali and Pernik 110 pieces are at stake. Other reasons for drying coniferous forests are phytopathogenic mushrooms. The attack by phytopathogenic mushroom in the largest size was found in 2016 on 400 hectares and new 4,500 hectares were inventoryed in 2017. In relation to the strong expansion of the affected areas at the beginning of May 2017, an extraordinary Lesopathological investigation was conducted to determine the extent of the attack and the level of spread of the harmful organism. The survey was attended by scientists from the University of Lesotech, the Institute for the Forest at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Specific measures and actions against phytopathogen have been proposed and sanitary logging will be carried out on heavily affected areas. For the maintenance of the health condition of forests continues the implementation of the measures taken several in number, then I can list them to you given the limited time. Despite the increase in the attacks on certain pests and diseases, the health status of forests is good as affected areas are significantly below the sanitary minimum, as is the conclusion of the National Commission on Forest Protection. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has taken the possible and necessary administrative and organisational measures to limit the spread of diseases and pests in forests and prevent mass attacks on large areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u160	Thank you, dear Minister. Come in, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u161	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, it's really theoretical. In 2015, we warned that there would be problems with snow and snow. I'm talking about a South Central State enterprise, maybe elsewhere. At the arrival especially in larger sizes of the Coroner only last August a working meeting was held in Smolyan and imagine that now at the opening of the Forest Week, the Deputy Director of the Enterprise said: "In particularly large amounts the damage with the Coro Eater occurred. In other words, we have a problem which is very serious the state of the Bulgarian forest, especially of the Rhodope, crown, drying and problems. Why did I ask the question? You'll get your reports. It's specialized matter. My request is: be very strict! Get Botyo Arabadzhiev, the entire enterprise in the Rhodopes to do its job. You'd like to hear reports. I'll ask you every month in writing what they really do for a month, because in Banite, Ardino, Madan, Smolyan, Chepelare, Dospat, Devin is like a fire. I can get you some pictures. Rhodopeans suffer. It's an ecosystem, it's connected to a big logging that needs to happen. You've been properly written in three, four years should be afforestation and recovery. Otherwise we'll miss the Rhodope forest. That is why I turn to you: be very strict and make the people who in the country hold the green gold of Bulgaria not to sell the wood and to earn, but above all on behalf of the people and of the Bulgarian state to be owners of the Bulgarian forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u162	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. A hole? I won't. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Krastina Nikolova Taskova regarding certified laboratories for food control. Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u163	Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Porozhanov for providing us with information on the measures taken to analyse food products. I raise the theme of food quality, as it is essential for the health of the nation, and especially for the health of our children. I receive many signals from citizens who inform me that they are constantly facing this issue and insist on stricter control and adequate management measures. Many mothers are concerned about the quality of food in the school chairs and also in the nursery, in the gardens. My question to you is caused precisely by these signals. I would like to ask: are the certified food control laboratories sufficient and what is their effectiveness? Is it true that the samples are sent abroad and how much this cost Bulgaria and are they sanctioned for the sale of low quality food products on the Bulgarian market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u164	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. For a response the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov. You have three minutes to respond, Mr. Porozhanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u165	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Taskova, your question is really very clear, up-to-date and it is nice to communicate it periodically. As regards capacity, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency (BABH), as a food safety control body, has a total of 12 accredited laboratories for testing food samples. In accordance with Regulation of the European Union 882 of 2004 on official controls by order of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, national reference laboratories are also designated which meet the Community reference laboratories as follows: - three specialized structures for research and laboratory diagnostic activities in the field of food at central level; - National Diagnostic Research Veterinary Institute with four national reference laboratories; - a central laboratory of animal health expertise and ecology and five national reference laboratories; - a central laboratory for chemical testing and control with four national reference laboratories; In addition, nine regional laboratories for food control entering the structure of the regional directorates of the Agency, located in Sofia, Shumen, Blagoevgrad, Plovdiv, Haskovo, Varna, Vratsa, Sliven, Gabrovo. 38 private accredited food testing laboratories are also operating on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. As a Member State of the European Union and in implementation of the legislation, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency annually prepares and implements four national control programmes related to food analysis. The studies for which the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency does not have the necessary equipment and capacity are directed to external accredited laboratories in Bulgaria, and in the absence of samples in the country at all are sent to laboratories of other Member States. This practice is also applied in other countries of the European Union. Information on what was sent for analysis in 2016 outside Bulgaria: A total of 13 samples were sent for analysis of 6 thousand. BGN 053. The total value shall be calculated in accordance with the Five samples are based on official monitoring programs, ionizing radiations and hepatitis virus, frozen fruits in accredited laboratories in Austria and Italy, totaling BGN 1352. and eight samples of mushrooms and food containing mushrooms for suspicion of atropine poisoning in accredited laboratories in Italy for a total of 4 thousand. £700. With regard to control functions and sanctioned persons. In 2016, sampling checks were carried out for the quality of food offered on the Bulgarian market. Of the total 991 samples, namely for the presence of non-lactic fat in products, forgery of honey, physical and chemical parameters of products produced by industry and national standards, 65 of the samples have shown non-compliance with some of the indicators relating to food quality, resulting in the necessary administrative action and measures depending on the infringement. In conclusion, the capacity of laboratories to cover food control exists. There is much to be desired in the equipment of the laboratories, as some of them have quite old equipment here we are already talking about investment, investment plan and provision with the least funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u166	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u167	Dear Minister Porozhanov, thank you for the comprehensive information we have received, and thank you for answering the questions how many certified laboratories there are. From your presentation I could not understand whether these certified laboratories are enough and what their effectiveness is, since we agree that the topic is up to date and our population is under the impression that the effectiveness is not enough and I think not only with the impression. What measures will we take for increased control then, and how will we regulate the effectiveness of laboratories? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u168	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Mr. Minister for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u169	I wouldn't want it to be interpreted as an inefficiency of the labs. Just because we don't have the most advanced equipment in some labs doesn't mean that. Only when we don't have the capacity to see the cases are single, thirteen in number are in the past year with the capacity for specific indicators and are sent abroad. As you can see, they don't cost huge sums and so on. The theme of modernization of laboratories, with having better equipment is up-to-date not only with us, but absolutely for any technique that is even in administration, even in every other direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u170	Thank you, dear Minister. This was the last question to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Mr. Rumen Porozhanov. Let us thank him for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Economy Mr. Emil Karanikolov. Question from the National Representative Dimitar Ivanov Danchev on the upgrade and extension of the web-based information system for services and internal communication between Bulgarian services on trade and economic issues abroad........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u171	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in relation to the transmission protocols No 1 of 14 October 2016 and No 2 of 24 October 2016 to a contract concluded between the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises and the company "Aisidgen Corporation" Ltd for implementation of activities for the implementation of the web-based information system for service and internal communication between the Bulgarian services for trade and economic affairs abroad and the Agency with a total price for implementation of the contract subject matter of 68 thousand. £800. without VAT, that web-based system has been put into operation. Decision No RD 16-73 of 22 November 2016 was granted to the Deputy Executive Director of the Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises to open a negotiated procedure without prior notification of the upgrade and extension of the web-based information system. As a contracting entity, the Agency insists that the upgrade and extension of that information system can only be carried out by the copyright holder, i.e. by the company with which the initial contract for the deployment of the web-based information system was concluded. Despite the conclusion of the APO that the use of the desired type of procedure has not been clearly demonstrated, the upgrade order has been announced and awarded to the contractor. I would like to point out here that, for unknown reasons, the system implemented in service is not yet available to end users. Mr. Minister, given the above, I ask you to give me an answer as to what caused the 68,000-dollar system. £800. without VAT being upgraded with a value of almost 10 times the value of the original order, namely for the sum of 608 thousand. 333,33 leva. without VAT, and is there a written opinion on the appropriateness of the system and its upgrade by the end user, namely business representatives, respectively employers' organisations? Is the project of the executive company with the External Economic Policy Directorate in the Ministry of Economy, which implements the operational management of the STI and is there a report of the Directorate regarding the work with the system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. The answer is given by the Minister of Economy Mr. Emil Karanikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u173	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honored guests! First of all, I would like to thank the MP Mr. Danchev for the question he asked me because this was extremely important information for me. I'm gonna give you a brief flashback on what happened, and I'm gonna tell you what measures we've taken. As soon as we received your question, it was assigned to the Inspectorate at the Ministry of Economy and to the Legal Department to carry out a verification of the facts that you submitted. What did we find out? With an advert, outgoing number from 21 September 2016 the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises will call it the Executive Agency from here on............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 20, para. 3 of the ZOP with subject: Implementation of a web-based information system for internal communication services between the Bulgarian services on trade and economic issues abroad? The so-called STI, with a estimated value of 69 thousand. lv. without VAT. On the basis of an established Protocol of 30 September 2016 a contractor has been selected and the contract has been awarded to the first-ranked participant The price offered is 68 thousand. £800. without VAT, as you said. This is done, paid accordingly and we have one product. I'll explain what happened in a moment. A subsequent Decision of 22 November 2016 opened a negotiated procedure without prior notice, as you said, under art. 79, para. 1, t. 3 point (b) of the Public Procurement Act, subject to the upgrade and extension of this web system, base. You are extremely right that there is an opinion of the Public Procurement Agency, which finds that there is a doubt that there is a division of the contract. Correctness requires me to say that it has also addressed the Financial Inspection Agency, as well as the Court of Auditors. The Inspectorate and the Legal Directorate of the Ministry of Economy also find and consider that there are doubts about the division of the contract. Regarding the other claims, I am obliged to inform you that the report proposed to me in relation to the request is explicitly stated:................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. At the current stage, the STS is not familiar with the platform, as it is currently not working and I will explain why. There is no written opinion on its appropriateness by the end-user, namely business. There is no mechanism for supporting Bulgarian business in countries where the STI does not function. The second procedure, I can note, is that for her she was in three stages. [[The President signals that time has run out]] . I'll be very brief. It was in three stages, the first two were executed, paid just over 510 thousand. lv. with VAT. Notice, the contract expired on 15 March, but the third stage of testing and implementation has not been carried out as there is no platform at the moment. Developments for the main stage have not been provided. Either way, the contract ended on March 15th. In relation to all these findings, the actions taken at the moment and on the proposal of the Inspectorate, and the Legal Directorate of the Ministry of Economy are also to refer at our request ADFI. This happened yesterday. Yesterday we also referred to the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office. The Inspectorate is currently establishing officials who have had responsibility and duties under this procedure and very soon expect measures in this direction, you will be notified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u174	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your response. I believe that the information provided by you shows a vicious practice in public procurement and procurement. Each of us understands that, in view of the development of information technology, the Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises as a contracting entity was fully aware that building up the web system would also result in a need to upgrade with new features, so no matter at which point the need for their acquisition would arise, it would have been necessary in the initial procurement, as you yourself said, that the product had undoubtedly been provided for the possibility of upgrade, respectively being awarded in accordance with the general estimated value, which would have allowed the creation of competitive selection in avoiding the risk of artificially narrowing the parameters of the original order. From the facts so submitted, it turns out that the Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises had previously ordered to build a web-based system that a priori knew would not do any work. The request to upgrade itself literally a few days after the launch of the system, without practically any experience of its use, eloquently confirms this, as well as the intention of the Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises from the very beginning to find ways to circumvent the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. The information about the coordination meetings and meetings with the business is undoubtedly sound good, but obviously they are carried out at a stage where the procurement has already been awarded and not before, as it should be, in order for the information from these meetings to be proposed, respectively valued in the order for the implementation of the system. Whatever is indisputable remains the fact that to date, unfortunately, the system is not available for use by the Bulgarian producers, respectively for the internationalization of their activities, which I undoubtedly think should be the main benefit of such a system. In this sense, I am pleased with your reply, Mr Minister, and I believe that in view of the above, you have every reason to take the necessary measures to prevent and terminate such vicious practices in public procurement in the Ministry of Economy system, as well as in establishing administrative and other violations to refer to... as I understand you have already done, which I am grateful for, immediately the competent authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u176	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-19.u177	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Mr. Minister for the doppelganger. I won't. This was the last question to the Minister of Economy Mr. Emil Karanikolov. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. This was the last question of today's parliamentary control. The plenary programme for this week is over. The next regular plenary sitting on 25 May 2017 from 14.00 to 19.00 I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
