ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Message. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that on the basis of art. 63, para. 1 of the Law The Council of Ministers has adopted a Decision amending Decision No 707 of the Council of Ministers of 2014 on the termination of the participation of troops and troops from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in the operation of the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF), in Afghanistan and authorising the participation of up to 110 soldiers with their personal weapons, equipment and military equipment from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in the NATO mission of preparation, advice and assistance in Afghanistan. The notification was received on 27 July 2017. No 702 00 30 and granted to the Defence Committee. On 26 July 2017, an analytical report was received on the results of an empirical, sociological study conducted by the National Centre for Parliamentary Studies on Public attitudes towards the state administration and the administrative services offered. The material is submitted by a resolution to the President of the National Assembly of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Decision No 48-45/NS of 27 July 2017 concerning the announcement of Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova as MP from the Eighth Election Region. In a letter, in a letter. No 02-65/NC of 26 July 2017, the CEC has received a decision of the National Assembly of 26 July 2017, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Zhivko Ivanov Martinov, as MP from the Eighth Election Region, raised from the list of the political party GERB in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code and in relation to the Decision of the Central Election Commission, No 48-44/NS of 27 July 2017 the Central Election Commission decided: Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova, respectively, with EGN, as a MP in the Forty-fourth National Assembly on the List of the Political Party GERB, from the Eighth Election Region. The decision to be promulgated in the State Gazette. Please invite Mrs. Dimitrova to the oath room. Come to the stand and repeat after me. [[All MPs become.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause and congratulations from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u3	We move on to: the selection of the management of the national health insurance case. Let me introduce you to the procedure for the selection of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund by the National Assembly: 1. The meeting, which holds the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. By decision of the National Assembly the proposed candidates are present and in this case he is one. 2. The Committee on Health presents to the National Assembly a report on the hearing of candidates for the appointment of the Director of the National Health Insurance Fund. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the importer of the selection proposal at an exhibition of two minutes. 4. Following the submission of the report under point (c) of the Annex to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 2 and candidates in accordance with the order of point 2. 3, The National Assembly shall hold debates on the submitted nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and, during the deliberations, the Members of the National Assembly may raise questions to the candidates. 5. After the debate is concluded, candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund may make statements and answer the questions asked to them in an exhibition within 10 minutes. 6. The vote is clearly supposed through the computer voting system. 7. In cases where there are several candidates, such as is not the case for the office of the National Health Insurance Fund, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the names of the candidates, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 8. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 9. In the event that two or more candidates have received an equal number of votes, a re-vote shall be held between them, which cannot happen today. 10. In the event that one of the candidates does not receive the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held, involving the two candidates who received the most votes, which is also not applicable today. 11. In the event that none of the candidates receives the necessary votes upon re-voting, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. Dear Mrs Daritkova, you have the floor to present the report to the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman! I am making a procedural proposal in relation to Section VI, p. 1, second sentence of the adopted Rules of Procedure for admission in the plenary of Prof. Kamen Sotirov Plochev, candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, proposed on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB and the Parliamentary Group of....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u5	Please vote on the proposal. Vote 189 MPs: 187, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite Professor Plotchev to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u6	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on the hearing of the proposed candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund At its extraordinary meeting held on 26 July 2017, the Health Committee held a hearing of the proposed candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund under Section V of the adopted procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 19th para. 4 t. 5 of the Health Insurance Act by decision of 05 July 2017 prematurely terminated the term of office of the previous governor of the National Health Insurance Fund (SSC) because of the resignation of Dr. Glinka Komitov. In this regard, a public procedure was opened for the election of a new manager of the health insurance fund by the National Assembly. The meeting was attended by: the Minister of Health, Professor Nikolay Petrov, Deputy Minister of Health, Master Pharmacist Lydia Neykova, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health, patient organizations and other guests. Dr. Daniela Daritkova, Chairman of the Health Committee, informed the MPs and guests that, at a regular meeting held on 20 July 2017, the Commission carried out an examination of the documents submitted by the applicant regarding the admission to a hearing under Section IV, i.e. 2 of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. According to the rules of procedure adopted, an inquiry was made and a reply was received on the request for verification of the applicant's nationality in accordance with the requirement of art. 21, para. 1, t. 1 of the Health Insurance Act and the absence of a legal restriction under art. 21, para. 1, t. 2 of the same law. The reply received on behalf of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works was published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. Under the Rules of Procedure, a request for information was sent to the President of the Commission for disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The reply received on behalf of the President of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army was published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly. In the verification, the Committee on Health found that the proposed candidate had submitted all the necessary documents referred to in Section I, i.e. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of which a unanimous decision was adopted for a hearing in the Committee on Health, to allow Professor Kamen Sotirov Plochev to be admitted to Doctor of Medical Sciences. The applicant's hearing on 26 July 2017 was held in accordance with Section V of the Rules of Procedure. In order to ensure full publicity and transparency in the selection of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the full stenographic minutes of the meeting on 26 July 2017 shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly. The candidacy of Dr. Kamen Sotirov Plochev, Doctor of Medical Sciences and Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, proposed on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Political Party GERB and the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs, was presented by one of the contributors Dr. Daniela Daritkova. It was said that Professor Plotchev has gained extensive professional experience in the healthcare system. 38 years, part of which in the field of health management. The proposed candidate has graduated from higher education with a degree in education and qualification in the specialty of the Medical Academy, Sofia and has acquired a medical degree in Infectious Diseases. There is a scientific degree awarded to the Doctor of Sciences in the scientific specialty "Infectious Diseases" from the Military Medical Academy, Sofia. On 27 November 2012 he was awarded the academic position of Professor of Science in Infectious Diseases. He has acquired a postgraduate degree in Health Management. He speaks English and Russian. Prof. Plotchev started working as a clinical coordinator at the Military Medical Academy, Sofia in 1979. He worked as an assistant and senior assistant at the Infectious Diseases Clinic at the Military Medical Academy at Sofia in the period 1985. He was Deputy Head of the Infectious Diseases Clinic at the Military Medical Academy, Sofia in the period 1988 and Deputy Head of the Center of Immunology, Sofia from 1994 to 2000 and Associate Professor at the Institute of Infectious Diseases at the Military Medical Academy in the period 1991. From 2017 until now he has held an academic position professor of the Department of Infectious Diseases, Military Medical Academy, Sofia. Professor Dr. Kamen Sotirov Plotchev, Doctor of Medical Sciences, has developed a rich audience activity: 2 dissertation work, 3 monographs, 121 scientific publications in referee journals. Of them 6 in summarys in journals with "Impact factor", 22 scientific publications in collections of conferences, congresses, 15 international publications, author of 161 scientific publications, of which 57 before habilitation and 87 after habilitation. In his exhibition Dr. Kamen Sotirov Plochev presented his views on the development of the National Health Insurance Fund. As a top priority in the management of the public fund Professor Plochev pointed out the effective and transparent management of the funds from health insurance contributions and ensuring the quality of medical activity. Part of the priorities and principles of the management of the health insurance fund which the applicant outlined in his statement include: establishment of legal regulation for carrying out planned and sudden joint checks by the National Health Insurance Fund, the Regional Health Insurance Fund, the Regional Health Inspections, the Medical Audit Executive Agency and the word organizations; gradual increase in the amount of the insurance income on which the state contributes health insurance contributions to the persons under art. 40, para. 3 of the Health Insurance Act, until the minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons is reached; transfer of groups of diseases from hospital medical care to extra-hospital medical care in order to optimize costs; establishment of an analytical unit in the administrative structure of the National Health Insurance Fund consisting of closely profiled specialists; improvement of the control activities of the Fund, including through the introduction of the personal electronic health card of the patient. During the hearing, Dr. Daniela Daritkova, Chairman of the Committee on Health, presented in summary the questions received from the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union's word organization to the candidate manager. Prof. Plochev answered the questions asked by the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union. The applicant for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund answered all questions asked by the members of the Health Commission. In view of the exceptional public importance in the healthcare system of the position of the National Health Insurance Fund, it was given the opportunity to express their views and questions orally to the applicant. With regard to the meeting held on 20 July 2017 to verify the submitted documents for admission of the applicant to the hearing and the hearing of the admitted applicant, the Health Committee found that it complies with the legal requirements for taking up the position of the National Health Insurance Fund. It is important to note that the accumulated medical, administrative and management experience of the proposed candidate, as well as the additional qualifications acquired by him and, last but not least, the high level of academic training, are positive prerequisites for the implementation of competent and responsible management of the public fund. The proposed candidate has impeccable authority and a very good professional reputation. During the hearing, he expressed his personal motivation and willingness to participate actively, in compliance with the statutory powers, in the process of reforming the health insurance system to achieve financial stability, the optimal functioning of the Fund and ensuring the quality of the medical activities carried out. On the basis of the hearing and the voting carried out, the Committee on Health proposed by the National Assembly to examine and vote on the proposed application of Professor Kamen Sotirov Plochev, Doctor of Medical Sciences, as Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund under Section VI of the Rules of Procedure, to which the draft decision is applied, according to the Annex to the report. Project! DECISION on the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 19th para. 1 and 5 of the Health Insurance Act HAS DECIDED He elected Kamen Sotirov Plochev as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund for a term of office until 12 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u7	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. You have presented both the report and the candidate and the draft decision, so we can move on to the next stage of the debate. Here you go, Mr. Velkov. [[Radio.]] Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u8	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I felt a slight whiff of movement and a gust of gesture and a mime. I hope they don't follow my words. I'm not gonna hide that I was surprised myself when I found out about Professor Scully's candidacy. Plotchev, I also have some questions. I fully share what we've heard here about his professional biography. I'd like to say I know him too well. And he knows me. I'm not hinting at friendly feelings. He's a distinguished scientist, a proven clinician, with great practice. I think he's an honest man, too. At one point in our joint professional biography, I was also his supervisor. So I'm going to speak now and from this position. This has escaped the attention of some present colleagues here. I was deputy chief of the front front hospital base of 22 hospitals, where Dr. Plochev then was chief of the Hospital for particularly dangerous infections near the resort of Zelin, Botevgrad. I have to say, he's always been perfect at what he's been assigned to, which is in any case a good testimonial for the current application. At the same time, I asked myself the following question, which I hope to hear an answer here in the Chamber, and from Professor himself. How did a prominent Bulgarian scientist, a proven specialist in the field of medicine and clinician, not knowing anything about finance, face a similar task? Because of those who are inside the topic it is known that the activities of the Health Insurance Fund and its manager are a very complex balance between the interests on the one hand of the healers; on the other hand, the patients. The Health Insurance Fund and its activities are a national interest, which is worth unifying and the opinions of the members of parliament. I asked myself the other question: how is an honest man like Prof. Plotchev would react if an attempt at pressure was made, whether it is political, corporate or personal, in the distribution of this huge resource of funds? I hope to hear an answer to that question too. In fact, colleagues, the manager of the Health Insurance Fund walks with the resignation in his pocket. Here just now with Dr. Ademov in the order of a private conversation, I realized that in the 18-year history of the Casa there is not one manager who has spent more than two years. If you know the Health Insurance Act, you will see that today a person will be elected manager, who will pass the term of office of the previous governor, it is by 2020. All this, in my opinion, are complex questions to be answered. I would like to say the following, not only on the basis of what we have heard about professor. Plotchev, I will call on my colleagues to support Professor Plotchev's candidacy. Plochev because right now the National Health Insurance Fund needs national consensus. And hopefully he will do the work in the interests of the health of the Bulgarian society. This is also her main task. She distributes funds, she does not cure, but financially provides the process of medical insurance. I am sure that colleagues would be inclined to support such a proposal and I will say Professor. Plotchev, because I see you in the Chamber that if you receive broad support, you will not have more than 200 votes, you will have 400 votes because the votes of conviction are much more valuable and more expensive than the votes of duty. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u10	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members, Dear Prof. Plotchev! Today we elect a manager of the National Health Insurance Fund. And the red light goes on right away. There's only one caller. The candidate will manage 3 billion. 400 million. lv. There's only one. That says there are problems in this system. Today I think that we can not not give the credit of trust to Professor. Plotchev. He is a brave man and I told him to step back with the management of this system, which is in the sight of all Bulgarian citizens because it concerns them, with this chaos in health care at the moment, as well as Professor. Petrov, it takes a lot of courage. And you probably have to be a military man and responsible to deal with things. At the same time, we cannot not mark some of the serious problems that need to be dealt with from tomorrow or today. Plotchev. These are the problems with the lack of funds. And, colleagues, a paradox.. provided that the Health Insurance Fund only for the payment of medical care made to Bulgarian citizens abroad owes more than 230 million. BGN, The Health Insurance Fund last year ended with an excess of 1 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. and return them to the state budget. It's a complete paradox! We have a disproportion in the financing of the various sections of outpatient care, hospital care, medicine supply, especially in the field of medicine supply, where the payment of oncology preparations becomes a business in which part of the state funds, once paid medicines, are exported abroad, the second time, at the expense of things that the prosecution has to deal with. We have disproportion in the funds that are allocated to the purchase of medical care and it is often in the different regions of Bulgaria. And, like, a few days ago, Professor. Klisarova has one thesis: The funds allocated to one patient from Varna cannot be in times less than those allocated to one patient in Sofia or Plovdiv. I think the real debate on the state of the Health Insurance Fund will take place in a few months when we accept her budget. I want and call on you today to trust Prof. Plotchev, so that he can prepare himself and present us with a proposal for a budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, which will satisfy us and regulate the relations in Bulgarian healthcare. Good luck, Professor. Plotchev! Personally, you have my trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u11	Thank you, Dr. Yordanov. Are there any lines to Dr. Yordanov's statement? We don't. Dr. Grudev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! First of all, I would like to say that I will support the professor's candidacy as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund and I would like to declare that I have known him recently, that we have met maybe three or four times so far. What made an excellent impression on me? Firstly, the exposé he made in the Committee on Health, as he expressed himself, made a horizontal and vertical incision in the state of the National Health Insurance Fund. Secondly, the pleasant surprise of the Minister of Health precisely from this exposé. Although the two have worked together for many years, the Minister of Health was pleasantly positively surprised. And thirdly, no matter what, it is that the entire Committee on Health, all of our colleagues unanimously supported the application of Mr. Professor as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. Colleagues, I call on you all to support the professor's candidacy together. Indeed he assumes on his sturdy soldier's back the heavy responsibility for the state of the National Health Insurance Fund, naturally with his team. Whenever necessary, we will cooperate with him. Professor, don't worry about the figures. 300 million. lv. The difference between the management of the family budget, the management of the clinic's budget, and the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is only in zeros. When you're honest, honest, honest, everything's fine. Thanks, guys. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u13	Thank you, Dr. Grudev. - What's the line? I can't see. Dr. Jaffer, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u14	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! A priori every choice of manager of the Health Insurance Fund is loaded with many expectations, even a little hope that things will get better. Honourable Professor. Plotchev, Mr. Colonel, this choice is also loaded with similar expectations in your case. Every choice, however, raises many questions and becomes a debate on how the Casa is managed, who makes the decisions, who is responsible for these decisions, in general questions about the health insurance model, the health insurance system, its justice and solidarity and the expectations of the Bulgarian citizens who have been provided all the time and are regular paying agents. So 17 years. And so today, when for the 17th time, we're going to choose the manager of the Health Insurance Fund. By the way, this choice has not always been made by the National Assembly. I do not know how we improved the choice of manager of the Health Insurance Fund by transferring this choice to the National Assembly, colleagues from GERB, because you took this step. In the first years when the Cashier had a public character and was managed by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors, the Board of Control, which managed the Governing Council, this choice was carried out there with a competition between professionals. The National Assembly began to choose here publicly, after many procedures and procedural rules, the managers of the Health Insurance Fund. Unfortunately, however, they remain more and more brief at their post. I hope in this case this 17th choice isn't like that. We have a huge problem with the return of the public, the public character of the Cashier and the management of the Health Insurance Fund. Returning the triparty principle of governance because that was the idea 17-18 years ago. The holding of the Cashier, administration, centralisation did not seem to have led to an increase in the quality of the medical service. They also did not lead to a reduction in the cashier's financial deficit. Congratulations, Professor. Plotchev, about your ideas, which you presented in the concept of creating an analytical unit, because it is important to catch the problems in time and predict the development of the trends, and not vice versa to go post-factum after the events and to look for solutions that seem pointless. Congratulations on wanting to make boards in specialties and using specialists who are subordinate and dependent only on the Casa, not other lobbying interests. Congratulations on the pro-generational focus of the drug policy you are planning. I'm sure you won't be setting up a second management center in healthcare, and you won't be confronting each other because you're a person of subordination. But tell the truth about the financial situation of the Health Insurance Fund, that it generates a deficit, because manipulation, financial equilibricism, that the Health Insurance Fund does not have a deficit, serves for political and management purposes, but does not give you the necessary freedom to stand up for the important decisions, the decisions that you think are important and must be adopted. We will insist on an efficient spending of the money of health-insured people. We will demand control and transparency, but also for predictability for contractual partners, because we cannot work in an environment where we do not know how much hospital money is and what opportunities are. We will insist on ensuring equality and overcoming regional imbalances, because today in Bulgaria there is no equal access to health care. We will insist on promoting prevention, screening and early diagnosis, because there is no health system that can afford to give hundreds of millions for late treatment, which has a very high personal and public price. We will insist on demonopolitanisation, but this is something we do not expect from you, but from the ruling coalition. Once again, we reaffirm that we will support one such decision without reservation. You've got to live up to your expectations. Be as honest as they say you are! Be a part of the solutions in health problems, not some of the problems and deepening trends. We're going to support Professor Scully's candidacy. Plotchev. This is also our credit of trust. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u15	Thank you, Dr. Jaffer. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Dr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u16	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! The Group of the United Patriarchs will also support Prof. Devlin's candidacy. Plotchev. I'll be as quick as I can. In the Commission we asked questions, we are pleased with the answer. Professor. Plotchev assumes this heavy responsibility of an underfunded system. I gave the example that in Bulgaria in the 7 million population the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is 3 billion. 400-500 million. BGN, which means that the Cashier has for a Bulgarian citizen of the year 500 BGN. for his health care, which includes the fee to the jeep, immunization calendar, prevention, hospital care and everything. I give an example of a country from the Visegrad Four. The two-million-dollar Slovenia has 5 billion. EUR budget of the Health Insurance Fund, which means 10 billion. BGN, which means 5000 BGN. to a Slovenian citizen. That is, the budget of Slovenia's Health Insurance Fund is 10 times higher compared to the respective citizen, compared to Bulgaria. We understand how difficult Professor's task is. Plotchev. To him I have two wishes: after the choice of possible, first of all, urgently convince the supervision of the Casa that as quickly as possible more than 40 million excess activity should be paid to the Bulgarian hospitals, which has already been made and verified and, secondly, permanently strengthen the control of the Casa against the hospitals, so as not to receive additional drains of this already insufficient financial public resource. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Popovski. - What's the line? I can't see. Dr. Ademov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Plotchev! It has already become clear that our parliamentary group will support the candidacy of Prof. Plotchev as manager of the National Health Insurance Fund. Even though we are in opposition, we are convinced that solving the serious problems in the sector is going through the search for consensus, going through this to unite around overparty solutions and proposals in this sector. All attempts at individual action in this area have so far been crowned with failure, so we want to seek consensus on solving the serious problems in this sector. I would like to remind you that we are currently choosing the 16th Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund within the 18-year history of the National Health Insurance Fund, which means that this post is extremely ventilated, extremely unstable for several reasons. First of all, esteemed professor. Plotchev, the health insurance system and health care system as a whole in Bulgaria is infected by the bacillus of mistrust, by the bacillus of chronic underfinancing and by the fact that despite the measures taken, the budget deficit in the system is constantly increasing. In your term of office, you will continue to work under financial deficit conditions, because this composition of the National Assembly, I hope, will not accept deficit budgets at the start of the financial year. You are an experienced infectiousist, you are a man who controls the tools of diagnostic procedures, naturally, you also possess the tools of healing procedures, so I am convinced and possessed by the hope that you will handle this germ because you have experience, expertise, and the trust of the National Assembly. I would like to stress that this is trust in advance. We will closely monitor what you and your team will continue to exercise as a management team in the NHIF. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the Health Insurance Act the powers of the Governor of NHIF are listed in 17 points. Read them accurately, perhaps you already know them by heart. In these 17 points you have only the role of performer. Ideas, policies, such things are beyond the authority of the manager. You will work under conditions of financial deficit, the expected budgets adequately and flexibly to be allocated to the expectations of the sick citizens in Bulgaria. People's expectations are always more than financial opportunities. That's part of the challenge. I am convinced that with everyone's efforts we will try together to make the National Health Insurance Fund a functioning institution to restore confidence. However, this does not depend solely on the individual qualities of the governor, depends on the will of the National Assembly, depends on the legislative framework, depends also on the budgets we adopt here. In this sense, because all the conditions I have listed are not adequate to expectations, there is a huge gap between the wish of the governor and the opportunities that the National Assembly gives to the governor himself. In the Supervisory Board of the Cashier who makes the decisions, you are only entitled to a consultative vote, you are doing what the Supervisory Board of the Cashier says, and at the same time you are responsible. We now burden you with responsibility, and the Cashier's Supervisory Board makes the decisions. My request is that we re-examine all these relationships in order to enable the new governor of the National Health Insurance Fund to address the huge challenges facing the sector............................................................................................ Good luck to you, Mr. Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u18	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Mr. Panchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u19	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, Prof. Plotchev, colleagues! It is rare that we are so united in both the evaluation and the desire to support an idea which is not a party in this case, and I think it is an idea because of the professionalism and qualities that Professor has. Plotchev. In my opinion, the long-standing collaboration with the Minister of Health is an excellent opportunity to have a good tandem in the perspectives and activities of the National Health Insurance Fund. It's nice, Professor. Plotchev that you will receive the support of both the government and the opposition because for such a highly responsible activity the support of the parliament is very important. I would very much like to hear the good words that are said about you today at the end of your term. I am convinced that you are not only leaning on a difficult task, but also realistic from you, because you also have enough administrative experience as requested in the Health Insurance Fund. Once upon a time, when we chose someone in a high position, we assigned them an assignment, an assignment. I take advantage of the fact that today, for good luck, and the Minister is here to ask him a question, and you are here, Mr. Plotchev, as the future manager of the National Health Insurance Fund. One of the most indebted hospitals in Bulgaria, not to mention the most, is the Stara Zagora Multiprofile Hospital. As a MP from the Stara Zagora region, I have made a commitment and I place this task on you to be one of the first to not waste your time in the Health Insurance Fund, to write down and see what obligations it has towards it. [[Noise, excitement, lines.]] It relies on several hundred thousand people in the Stara Zagora region. [[Replying, noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u20	Please, order in the court, fellow Members!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u21	I hope that's the support of my desire. Thank you to my colleagues. I wish you with all my heart success and always, when we see each other, to look into each other's eyes not only as friends and acquaintances, but also as people who give their lives in fulfillment of our obligations to our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u22	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Are there any lines? I won't. I hope all MPs whose hospitals need support from the Health Insurance Fund will not come out. [[Radio.]] Are there any other statements? I won't. Professor Plotchev, there are questions for you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u23	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs! Thank you for the confidence you have given me and the opportunity to face you with a great desire to justify your trust. First of all, I'll have to answer two questions, both from Mr. Velkov. One question is easier, the other one is harder. I'll start with the second one: how would I react if I had the pressure to sign something that wasn't legal? Have I understood the question correctly? I would never sign anything illegal! Look, there is no administrative and political position that stands above the morality in which I was raised and which I have built in the course of my career. Such a conflict between morality and pressure will benefit morale, which means I will refuse. If this causes political or administrative turmoil, I will resign in a dignified manner without creating unnecessary comments and tensions in society. We can't let the system get concussion. Everything must be done so that the sick do not feel some differences that may exist between the management of the Health Insurance Fund, the Ministry of Health or, God forbid, MPs. To the second question: how can a scientist deal with finance? I will allow myself to answer that question with a very interesting story. You all know the famous scientist, the physicist Isaac Newton. I don't know if you know Isaac Newton was in charge of overseeing and guarding the royal safe. Why did the Queen assign this responsible task to Isaac Newton? At that time in England there were crooks again, there were people who were looking to steal from the commons and they were doing a very interesting procedure, and they were taking silver coins and rubbing them, erasing them on the edges. In this way, silver sand was obtained, which, from a coin to a coin, became a very serious sum, which had seriously violated England's budget. Isaac Newton does something genius simple but genius. He suggests that the coins should be jagged, and since then he has stopped scraping the coins. That makes the government of England task a scientist to manage finance. I'm not pretending to be Isaac Newton, but I want to tell you that scientists have the potential to think outside the box, and you might get something. [[Radio, applause.]] With regard to the very valuable words that I have heard from all the colleagues who have spoken, with gratitude for the trust they have given me, there are indeed several very serious problems that Dr. Jaffer and Dr. Ademov have raised. Look, I'm gonna start bothering you soon. The worry means that I will come, I will share with you, I will say what I have seen and I will ask for your assistance, because I really only perform, but no one deprives me of the right to inform you and ask for a problem to be discussed. You already, whatever decision you make, the Supervisory Board will comply primarily with Parliament's decision, and I will respect the Supervisory Board's decision. I believe that this way of contact and interaction will be a useful move in our future activities. Gentlemen of Parliament! That's the third time I've been on this stage. The first two times I was like a nominated doctor, whom the Bulgarians trust. It would be a great honor to be a doctor the MPs trust the third time! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u24	We move on to a vote on: Project! DECISION on the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 19th para. 1 and 5 of the Health Insurance Act HAS DECIDED He elected Kamen Spirov Plochev as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund with a mandate until 12 March 2020 Please vote on the Project. Vote 206 MPs: for 205, against none, abstention 1. Professor Plochev is elected manager of the National Health Insurance Fund. Let's give him a happy birthday. [[Applause.]] Let's wish him good luck on the difficult task! Next item is: SELECTION OF A PRESENTOR, EMPLOYANT PRINCIPLE AND MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION FOR THE PROTECTION OF DISCRIMINATION. Once again, let me remind you of the rules governing the election of President, Vice-President and Members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination: "1." The sitting is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly with a decision of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. 3. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 4. The National Assembly shall elect separately the Chair of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, the Vice-President and three members. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected and if several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the most votes for the President shall be elected. In the event that two or more candidates for one position have received an equal number, a re-vote shall be held between them. 7. Where none of the candidates for the position concerned receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for the position concerned shall take part. 8. If none of the candidates for the respective position receive the necessary votes during the re-voting, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. You have the floor, Mrs Alexieva, for the report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, before that, I would like to do a procedure. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber to the candidates for the composition of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination: Ms. Anna Vladimirova Dzhumalieva, Mr. Baki Hasanov Husseinov, Mr. Orlin Dimitrov Kolev, Mr. Atanas Georgiev Mussorliev, Mrs. Zlatina Manolova Kassarova, Mrs. Dukova, Mrs. Tyfi Sapundjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u26	We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 137 MPs: for 136, there is no abstention 1. Invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u27	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable candidates for the composition of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a hearing of candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination At an open meeting held on 25 July 2017 and broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights held a hearing of the proposed candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and Members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination (CDE) under Section IV of the Rules of Procedure for the Proposal of Candidates for President, Vice-President and Members of the CDC, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly adopted by a decision of the National Assembly of 12 July 2017, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. The meeting was attended by representatives of NGOs and media. The chairman of the commission Krasimir Velchev announced that eight proposals were received from parliamentary groups and MPs. The importers of the proposal have withdrawn Ivan Georgiev Arnaudov's candidacy as a member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. The candidate for CDC member Pavlin Dankov Penkov was not presented and heard. Proposals for candidates together with all documents are published on the specialized website of the National Assembly and are made public. According to Section III of the Rules of Procedure of the candidates, a check was carried out under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and on the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The results of the check are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. Only for the candidate Baki Hasan Husseinov is established and declared belonging to the bodies under art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army. All the candidates required under Section I shall be presented to the proposals of the candidates. 2 of the Rules of Procedure documents........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 42, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on protection against discrimination for knowledge and experience in the field of the protection of human rights and candidates meet the requirements of the Law on protection against discrimination for taking up the respective position. The hearing was held in alphabetical order on the names of the candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and members of the CDC. The application of associate professor Dr. Ana Vladimirova Dzhumalieva has been raised for President and Member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Ms. Ana Dzhumalieva's candidacy, proposed on behalf of PP GERB by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, was presented by the MP Evgenia Alexieva. Ms. Dzhumalieva has the necessary qualities and meets the requirements laid down by law for taking up the position. She is the professional for whom the rights, freedoms and equal treatment of people are not just a professional commitment, but a cause to which she has dedicated herself. At present, Ana Dzhumalieva is Chairman of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination and is active and responsible in administrative and management functions. Before that, she was a regional representative of the CDC for Varna District, and she is a longtime lecturer in international private law and international maritime law. Since 1998 he has been a Master of Law at the Law Faculty of the Technical University of Varna. Since 2008 he has been a Ph.D. in the scientific specialty of International Private Law and since 2010 he has acquired a Ph.D. in International Private Law. She has long experience as a lawyer and has extensive administrative practice. She has dedicated herself to the work of protecting human rights and combating discrimination. She has graduated from a specialized training course on human rights at the Diplomatic Institute at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Geneva Academy of International Humanitarian Law and Human Rights in 2016. Ms. Dzhumalieva is working on a number of topics such as gender equality, science and education, exercising the right to work and non-discrimination and others. He publishes scientific papers and manages PhD students. Involved as head of a number of projects implemented by the CDC. What is said is confirmed by both Mrs. Dzhumalieva's public activity and the numerous letters received in support of her candidacy. As Chairman of the CDC Ms. Dzhumalieva organized and participated in a number of conferences, forums and round tables, actively working to award the CDC to work on various projects carried out with the support of the European Union, both at national and international level. For Vice-President and Commissioner for Protection against Discrimination, Baki Hasanov Husseinov's candidacy has been raised. Mr. Baki Hüseyinov's candidacy, proposed by Dragomir Stoynev and a group of MPs from PG of BSP for Bulgaria, was presented by MP Filip Popov. At present, Baki Husseinov is Vice-President of the Commission. From November 2014 until now in the scientific field he was Chief Assistant to the Institute for Economic Research at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Since 2016 he has been a lecturer at the European Higher School of Economics and Management in the city of Plovdiv with the courses................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In the non-governmental sector he was Chairman of the International Center for Social Integration and Advocacy in Sofia. The Centre is involved in supporting the development and validation of the values of civil society. He was Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. During the period 2006-2009, the Council of Ministers co-ordinated an international initiative. In local self-government he was mayor of four mandates, as well as municipal councillor two mandates. He was chairman of a non-profit association with a number of projects implemented in this area. From 1999 to 2014 he has acquired a PhD in Economics at the Economics Academy of Economics in the town of Dimitar Tsenov. Svishtov. He's a master in economics and accounting. He has graduated from the Diplomatic Institute of the Geneva Academy and has obtained a certificate of human rights. He speaks English, Russian and Turkish. He is the author of a number of scientific publications on social policy, equal rights and opportunities, as well as on issues related to integration and anti-discrimination policies. He has actively worked as Head and Coordinator for the Commission's development and implementation of various projects carried out with the support of the EU. Its application complies with the requirements laid down by the Law for taking up the post of Vice-President and a member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. The application of Orlin Dimitrov Kolev was raised for Vice-President and Member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. The application of Orlin Kolev, proposed by the MPs Boris Yachev and Hristian Mitev from PG to the PG of the POP, was presented by the MP Boris Yachev. The professional experience and career of Mr. Orlin Kolev is in the field of Constitutional Law and the protection of fundamental human rights and has more than 11 years of practical and theoretical experience. He is a researcher, assistant in Constitutional Law since 2006. He is currently a chief assistant, which he acquired in 2013. In 2012 he defended his doctorate in Constitutional Law. In the framework of the mentioned professional experience and the lecture courses at the Faculty of Law of Sofia University, at the Faculty of Law of UNWE, at the Department of Law of the New Bulgarian University and the Faculty of Justice of the Ministry of Interior are basic human rights and their protection, constitutional law of the Republic of Bulgaria, constitutional justice, organization of the human rights institutions and electoral systems and procedures, the author of a number of scientific publications in the field of the protection of fundamental rights. Mr. Kolev speaks fluent English and Russian, holds a number of certificates for trainings and specializations held in England, Denmark and Hungary. In view of those qualities, Orlin Kolev will perform the functions of a member and Vice-President of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. The nominations of Atanas Georgiev Musorliev, Zlatina Manolova Kasserova-Dukova and Sabrie Tyfi Sapundjieva have been issued for members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Atanas Musorliev's candidacy, proposed on behalf of the parliamentary group of "United Patriots" by the MPs Volen Siderov and Yavor Notev, was presented by the MP Pavel Shopov. Atanas Musorliev has the qualifications, knowledge and skills proven in his work as a member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination in the framework of the expired term. He worked to promote the rule of law, which is the essence of protecting human rights. His high moral qualities, objectivity, impartiality, justice and empathy are part of his work. He was a practicing lawyer who went through all the stages of the judicial career. He was a junior, district and district judge, a lawyer. He has a qualification in the field of mediation acquired at the American Agency for International Development. He has participated as a judge in a qualifying course on asylum and refugee status organised within the Italian Presidency of the European Union, as well as in a qualification course on patent and copyright in Strasbourg for judges from developing countries and countries with economies in transition. He was involved in the election process as a member of election committees. Due to the following, Atanas Mussorliev's candidacy meets the requirements laid down by the Law for the appointment of a member of the Commission for protection against discrimination. The application of Zlatina Dukova, proposed on behalf of PP GERB by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, was presented by the MP Evgenia Alexieva. The topic of human rights and countering discrimination is permanently present in the work of Zlatina Kasserova Dukova, evident from her professional experience. At present, she is a member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, carrying out her duties actively and responsibly. He's a law degree from St. George's University. Ct. Ohridski has long experience as a lawyer for five years as chief legal counsel and 15 years as a lawyer. From 2009 to 2012 she was Deputy Regional Governor of Burgas District. From 2007 to 2009 she was Vice-President of the Municipal Council of the city. Burgas. She was involved in the development team of the Project of the First Domestic Violence Act. Founder and member from 2003 of the Black Sea Association of Women dealing with problems of equal opportunities of women, their professional realization and the right to a decent and equal pay of labor. Trained and certified mediator and human rights trainer and equal opportunities. In co-authority, he participates in the preparation of Monitoring of Practices for the Implementation of Anti-Discrimination Law, participates in a number of conferences, forums and round tables. He is working on various projects carried out with the support of the European Union. Sabrie Sapundjieva's candidacy, proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid from PG to DPS, was presented by the importer. The application complies with the requirements laid down by the Law for the appointment of a member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Mrs. Sabrie Sapundjieva has high moral and professional qualities in the field of human rights. She was Secretary of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria on Legal Affairs, as well as two mandates Deputy Minister of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria. There is extensive administrative experience and skill in working in collective bodies, including the Central Election Commission and the non-governmental sector. She has been involved in the reform of civil justice since 2008 of the GPC, reform of administrative justice, worked on a World Bank project in the area of justice, as well as on projects of the US Agency for International Development in the field of justice. He has extensive experience in electoral legislation. Following the submission of the applications, the personal presentation of the candidates and the presentation of their concepts of work as President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination were moved on. Assoc. Prof. Dr. Ana Dzhumalieva said that her vision as chairman for the future work of the Commission in order to be established and implemented should have the support of the 9-member panel of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. According to her, the Commission for Protection against Discrimination as a relatively young and new institution has achieved very little in the past 10 years. As a positive trend, it cited the record number of decisions issued by the Commission in 2016. 510. In the short term, an important step will be the establishment of a public council to support the work of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, including non-governmental organisations, people from scientific areas and other institutions. As a priority for her future work as President of the Commission, Ana Dzhumalieva pointed out the creation of a Strategy for Protection against Discrimination at national level. In his exhibition Baki Husseinov emphasized the role of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination in order to have a tolerant attitude in Bulgaria, so that there would be no opposition between ethnic and other communities. The Law on Protection against Discrimination is one of the best laws in the European Union that meets the requirements of equality bodies. As a quasi-judicial body, the Commission deals with judicial activities, on the one hand, and on the other, with preventive activities, making it unique. With regard to the administration of justice, the specialized compositions in the Commission have very good practice. A key priority of the Commission's future activities has indicated the need to implement the European Commission's Recommendation on extending the number of regional representatives directly working on preventive action to help victims of discrimination by increasing their powers and control. According to Mr. Orlin Kolev, the Commission for Protection against Discrimination should be close to people, understand and act with quick, legal and fair decisions. Feeling the support and protection of the Commission, citizens will be sure of the fair outcome and will develop faith in law, statehood and constitution. Cooperation and partnership with other jurisdictions and regulators will focus on its work, as the causes of discrimination, such as the determinant of human rights violations, are multispective, affecting different areas of public life, which is why it is unlikely that an institution can cope with this undesirable phenomenon. It is therefore necessary to work more closely with the Ombudsman and other regulators concerned with the protection of rights such as the Commission for Consumer Protection, the Commission for Protection of Competition, the Council for Electronic Media, the Commission for Personal Data Protection, etc. The Commission for Protection against Discrimination should clearly express its position on issues of particular importance to society by making opinions on pending cases before the Constitutional Court concerning human rights. Atanas Musorliev stressed that it is absolutely necessary and mandatory in order to achieve the objectives that the Commission has and which are laid down by the legal framework before it, it must work for the precise and uniform application of the Law on Protection against Discrimination and of the entire legislative framework which concerns the protection of equality, the protection of vulnerable groups and human rights. He said that within the framework of the Commission's second term, his efforts were aimed precisely in this direction. Point out the need for possible changes to internal acts for the Commission's work. These imperfections in the very framework which the Commission has created during the first term lead to the fact that the Commission does not work as effectively as it could on the application of its powers in relation to art. 47, paragraphs 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination, namely the follow-up and submission of opinions on draft legislative acts, the provision of independent assistance to victims of discrimination, the conduct of independent studies, the publication of independent reports and the publication of information to the public through the mass media on the provisions in force, on the Commission itself's activities, on the results achieved, on the problems that exist. In the Commission's work, it is of great importance to achieve the precise balance between the rights of the individual and the public interest and to take measures in the protection of vulnerable groups in order to achieve and equalise their capabilities that balance should not be lost. According to Zlatina Dukova, the CDC is a very well positioned law enforcement body and Bulgarian citizens actually benefit from its work and its functioning. By establishing an independent specialised body for protection against discrimination, the legislator has provided for special powers which distinguish it from both the Ombudsman and the courts. The Commission's advantage is that a social authority is also available because it does not charge state fees. The Commission from its budget shall pay all the costs of proceedings, as well as the transport costs of the parties wishing to appear in the proceedings in person. The highly developed network of regional representatives distinguishes the Commission from bodies such as courts and ombudsmen. Sabrie Sapundjieva said she was respected by what the Commission had done in its two mandates, establishing itself as an authority with national and international authority. Human rights protection is at the heart of all democratic societies and has measured the development of democracy in a society. Discrimination is a phenomenon that occurs in all societies. It is not alien to the oldest and most developed democracies in the world. Discrimination does not affect only the specific victim, it is largely harmful to modern society because it is able to undermine democratic values, the principles of dignity, equality and mutual respect between people. According to Ms. Sapundzhieva, the law on protection against discrimination is rightly juicy as one of the best in the European Union for protection against discrimination. It describes in detail the powers of the Commission. The definitions of direct and indirect discrimination are given, the signs in art. 4, para. 1, the possibility of legal proceedings is also regulated. The Commission's decision in force may serve as grounds for bringing compensation to the court. The Bulgarian Commission for Protection against Discrimination is unique, and with the fact that there are regional representatives, because they, apart from being closer to the people, organize foster and follow the acts of the authorities of local government, municipal councils and mayors, whatever power the Commission has under art. 47 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination. She pointed out that it has been necessary, since early childhood, in the educational programmes, to start training for children and families in the field of human rights with a view to the reform that is now taking place in education. Close cooperation with universities on human rights training and interaction with the National Institute of Justice should be developed in relation to the training of magistrates. Protection against discrimination is a common concern of all institutions in the country. Following the submission of the candidates, the Chair of the Commission on Religions and Human Rights presented in the summary the opinions received by NGOs on the candidates. In support of Anna Dzhumalieva's candidacy, opinions have been received from the following NGOs, NGOs, civic and initiative committees and councils; the National Council of Religious Communities in Bulgaria; the Organization of Jews in Bulgaria. In support of Baki Hasanov Huseinov's candidacy, opinions were received from the following non-governmental organizations: Center "Inforoma". "Plovdiv" and other organizations, accompanied by the signatures of 32 NGOs, civic and initiative committees and councils and the National Council of Religious Communities in Bulgaria. In support of the nominations of associate professor Dr. Ana Dzhumalieva and Baki Husseinov have received opinions from Prof. Dr. Ivaylo Tarnev Professor at the Medical University of Sofia, and the Department of Cognitive Science and Psychology, New Bulgarian University, Chairman of the Foundation Health Problems of Minorities and member of the Board of the National Network of Health Mediators; member of the Board of the Roma-Lom Foundation and the National Roma Coalition. In support of Atanas Georgiev's candidacy, Musorliev received an opinion from the Bulgarian Association for Hemophilia. In support of Mrs. Zlatina Dukova's candidacy, an opinion was received by the Bulgarian Red Cross, Regional Council Burgas. Mr. Krasimir Velchev, Chairman of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, presented the questions received to the candidates for President, Vice-President and Members appointed by the Association........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... MPs Jayhan Ibryamov and Vasil Antonov asked questions to the candidates to whom they replied in detail. After the hearing was concluded, the chairman of the committee Mr. Krasimir Velchev announced that a report from the hearing will be submitted, to which a list of candidates who participated in the hearing will be attached, arranged in alphabetical order on the names of the candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and members of the CDC and a draft decision to select each candidate who participated in the hearing for the relevant position in the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. For the candidate Pavlin Dankov Penkov, who is not present at the hearing, according to the provision of art. 93, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will not be presented a draft decision for choice.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u28	Thank you, my dear Mrs. Alexieva. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Ibryamov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u29	Madam President, honourable Members! At the beginning of the week there was a hearing of candidates admitted to the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. About a month ago in this House, we voted on the report of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination for 2016. The hearing went into a spirit worthy of respect, but I have a personal recommendation to each of you. If you can find the recordings of your presentation, your arguments, your statement, please view. This is my personal recommendation to each and every one of you candidates. Various arguments have been put forward to improve the Commission's work, what the new old candidates will contribute to the more effective work of this Commission, as well as the new applications that they have made with their presentation. I'll pay attention to a few things. In some of the exhibitions, two important and significant problems have been highlighted, which we will monitor with great attention in the work of the Commission. Firstly, the expansion of the regional services. In the Commission, I stressed the need for enlargement and effective control of their activities. Why? Because in addition to the extension of the composition and capacity of the Commission, it is necessary to exercise this control at regional directorates in order for the employees who occupy these jobs to be in favor of the Bulgarian citizens. The President of the Commission, as a governing independent body, has enormous powers, especially in Commission 1, if I am not mistaken, where they have the opportunity to self-examine various acts of aggression, especially on religious and racial grounds. This in the last year's speech, when we discussed the Commission report for 2015, and this year, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we explicitly stressed that it is a particularly important moment in your work. It is therefore necessary, as a collective, as a new staff, to pay particular attention to this thing. Only 10 examples are provided in the report of the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee for 2016. I won't go into details, but this is your job and your job. You have also noted that you will activate the activities of the public council, which must be built. You have voted on this decision as early as 2013. For incomprehensible reasons, this public council has not begun to function. Therefore, with great interest, I will expect the formation and composition of this public council, because I am convinced that the public council will also be a corrective, at the same time a good friend of the Commission and will assist your work. Before I finished my speech, I in the Commission asked you whether you were familiar with the conclusion of the European Commission on 16 May 2017 against racism and intolerance. In the Fifth Monitoring Report of 2014, published on 16 September concerning Bulgaria, the European Commission against racism and intolerance strongly recommends authorities to urgently organise an awareness campaign promoting positive image and tolerance for asylum seekers and refugees, ensuring that the public understands the need for international protection. The Commission recalls that the above recommendation was made as a result of the extremely tense situation in Bulgaria in recent years, 2013 - 2014, with the exploitation of xenophobic words, of hatred fed by some politicians against refugees. The Commission stresses that the situation in asylum seekers and refugees has not improved so far, and organised anti-migrant protests have caused tensions between local residents and refugees. The Commission concludes that its recommendation has not been properly applied in view of the high level of intolerance. Dear colleagues, take the trouble to read the last one year the index of intolerance in Bulgaria has risen to 44%. In view of the high level of intolerance towards asylum seekers and refugees in Bulgaria, the European Commission against racism and intolerance calls on authorities to take urgent measures. I say the authorities because, in the Commission, when asked such a question, this is an attitude of both the Commission for Protection against Discrimination and the Government, which has also been highlighted by the current candidate President of the Commission Mrs. Anna Dzhumalieva. Secondly, the Commission says that some of its recommendations have been taken into account, but not entirely. She commends the Commission for the detailed website with different language forms, but regrets that Turkish language is not included as one of the language choice options on your information site. This is from the European Commission report against racism and intolerance. With regard to information on complaint submission, the Commission's page on protection against discrimination contains an instrument of built-in translation, which is commendable, but at the same time notes that if a foreign refugee writes a complaint in his own language, in a foreign language referred to on the Commission's own website, it does not state for good practice that it should be accompanied by a translation into Bulgarian. All these things have to be taken into account. In general, this second recommendation has been partially implemented. This is the conclusion of the European Commission against racism and intolerance. I am convinced that the new composition will be a good collective, a team for example. And if, before only the Commission, and then analysts, journalists, political scientists were actively involved in the debates against racism, intolerance, how we should live together, today, honourable colleagues, we have singers who put songs about tolerance into circulation. You know what this is about. This must be an extremely worrying fact, to turn on a red lamp and to be aware that Bulgarian society has a huge need for us politicians and the leading committees to show attitude towards the Bulgarian society of tolerance and togetherness. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u30	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u31	Madam President, honourable Members! As an importer of the proposal for the election of Mr. Orlin Dimitrov Kolev as a member and Vice-President of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, I would like to make a proposal for an adjustment to the General draft decision on the selection of members and a Commission guide.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you. That was an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u32	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u33	Honourable Members, Madam President, elected by Kardzhaliyski multi-mandatory region! We have always claimed that this Commission is unnecessary. She is one of those who must be cut short in order to ease public administration and save millions. In the decade since it existed, a lot of money had been spent on it, and many important things could have been done with it. However, even today in this Chamber, and also at the Commission meeting, the members of this Commission have witnessed again our statement that this Commission is being exploited, used and it is a reserved place for the DPS. For some time, I personally began to doubt that this Commission might have some role to play. I am beginning to be disproved in my previous position and opinion because if there is discrimination in Bulgaria against someone, it is discrimination against the Bulgarians. The others are petted, for them work various European committees, various international organizations, non-governmental organizations, receive millions, pour them crazy money to get dirty in Bulgaria. This Commission, as a state institution, must protect the Bulgarians, who are already more and more discriminated against by the constant accusations of intolerance, in unification and such a word was invented in the Bulgarian language.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u34	It's legal, there's a definition.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u35	Indeed, there are Bulgarians specifically discriminated against. To the members of this Commission, who will be elected shortly, I recommend that they keep the Bulgarians from discrimination because it is known that in many places in Bulgaria, if you do not ask for bread in Turkish, it will not be given to you. [[Voices in DPS.]] You all know that. Madam President, and you know it is. Because we are witnessing, and only the last days, for beaten, beaten and killed Bulgarians, and for the reason that they are Bulgarians. Because they are beaten and beaten by the Turking Gypsies, because these are Turking Gypsies, these are not Christian Gypsies that we have never had a problem with...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u36	I'm asking you to slow down the talking!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u37	In Bulgaria the Bulgarians are discriminated against, and this Commission has a purpose to protect us, the Bulgarians first and foremost, against discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u38	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u39	Madam President, honourable Members! I take a procedure in the manner of conduct so that you do not allow again from the Bulgarian Parliament and from this high tribune to pour this language of hatred, division and misunderstanding. Taking a line is pointless. To respond to these nonsense and to this hatred is beneath our dignity. Madam President, I suggest that you no longer enter this language and the theme that the United Patriarchs impose. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u40	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u41	Madam President, we are equal here and all of us have chosen the Bulgarian people. When the tribune tells the truth, it should be carried in some way, rather than misinterpreting the words and calling everything that is spoken directly, directly. This so-called tolerance follows the policy of political correctness, which gives advantages to all who are unhappy with the situation in one country. Political correctness for some there are laws, for others there are no laws. To some the law is softer, to others harder it is the truth and Pavel Shopov said here some things that are true. What does hate language mean? Well, a speech was given here some time ago by a MP from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms against Hate Language, and the speech itself was a language of hatred. There are two pillars on which our colleagues from the DPS are supporting their policies. One pillar is a language of hatred, the other one the memory of the so-called revival process. That's all we've been listening to for 27 years. Another base, anything else to say important, solid, some prosperity? There's talk of togetherness, but he's actually pleading for separateness. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u42	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I'll read the voting decisions. I will read you an application: a list of candidates for Chairman, Vice-President, members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, who participated in the hearing: Anna Vladimirova Dzhumalieva for Chairman and Member; Baki Hasanov Hyuseinov for Vice-President and Member; Orlin Dimitrov Kolev for member only, Mr. Yachev made editorial amendment; Atanas Georgiev Mussorliev for member, Zlatina Manolova-Dukova for member, and Sabrie Tyfi Sapundjieva for member. Let's move on to the vote. First, we vote. Project! DECISION on the election of a President and a Member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 41 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination HAS DECIDED She elected Ana Vladimirova Dzhumalieva as Chairman and Member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Please, voting mode. Vote 174 MPs: 166, no objection, abstention 8. The proposal Ana Vladimirova Dzhumalieva to be President and a member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination has been adopted. [[Applause.]] Congratulations! Project! DECISION on the election of a Vice-President and a Member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 41 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination HAS DECIDED He elected Baki Hasanov Husseinov as Vice-President and member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Please, voting mode. Vote 181 MPs: 162, against 5, abstention 14. The proposal for the election of Vice-President and Commissioner for Protection against Discrimination of Mr. Baki Hasanov Husseinov has been accepted. [[Applause.]] "Project for a decision to elect Vice-President and Member of the Commission" here becomes a member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Project! DECISION on the election of a Member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 41 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination HAS DECIDED He elected Orlin Dimitrov Kolev as a member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Please vote. They voted 167 MPs: 139 against 1, abstention 27. The proposal Mr. Orlin Dimitrov Kolev to be elected as a member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination is accepted. Project! DECISION on the election of a Member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 41 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination HAS DECIDED He elected Atanas Georgiev Mussorliev as a member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Please vote. Voted 149 MPs: 49, none against, 100 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. Project! DECISION on the election of a Member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 41 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination HAS DECIDED He elected Zlatina Manolova Kasserova-Dukova as a member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Please, voting mode. Vote 176 MPs: 166, none, abstention 10. The proposal Zlatina Manolova Kasserova-Dukova to be elected as a member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination has been adopted. The last draft decision on the election of a Member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Project! DECISION on the election of a Member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 41 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination HAS DECIDED He elected Sabrie Tyfi Sapundjieva as a member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Please, voting mode. Vote 178 MPs: 148, against 18, abstention 12. The proposal to elect Mrs. Sabrie Taifi Sapundjieva as a member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination has been adopted. Thank you, colleagues. Let us wish success to the new leadership of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. [[Applause.]] Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT THE CALENDAR OF THE PARLIAMENT OF THE BULGARIAN PRESENTITY OF THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 1 JANUARY Mrs. Grozdanova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u43	Madam President, colleagues! I ask for an extension of the legislative part of today's sitting until the vote on this. 3, as set out in today's program.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Please, voting mode. They voted 143 MPs: 134, against 3, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u45	Mr. Vigenin, please come in. [[Loud noise.]] Colleagues, please take your seats in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Guys, we're almost there. The last day of peace and love the king in the Bulgarian Parliament. I hope we can get on with this a little longer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u47	That's not bad, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u48	Not bad.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u49	It's even commendable.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u50	Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, Committee on Foreign Policy: ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision on the adoption of the Calendar of the Parliamentary Dimension of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, January 1, 2018 submitted by Gemma Marinova Grozdanova and Kristian Ivanov Vigenin on July 24, 2017. At their extraordinary joint meeting held on 26 July 2017, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Committee on Foreign Policy examined the Draft Decision on the adoption of the Calendar of the Parliamentary Dimension of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, 1 January 30 June 2018. The draft decision was presented by Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Mrs. Grozdanova introduced the MPs from the two committees to the draft calendar of the parliamentary dimension, which includes five mandatory and one additional event. She stressed the need for the National Assembly to formalise the calendar in due time with a view to the full preparation for each of the interparliamentary conferences. The proposed dates are agreed at expert level with the European Parliament and all institutions involved with the Presidency by the Bulgarian side. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Mr. Valeri Zablyanov and Mr. Ivan Ivanov. In response to the questions asked by Mr. Zablyanov regarding the number and nature of the planned events, Mrs. Grozdanova explained that this type of calendar was achieved as a result of a long working process launched during the mandate of the 43rd National Assembly. To Mr. Ivanov's question about the work on the Programme and the content of the conferences, Mr. Vigenin replied that the discussion on them is coming in each of the committees involved and the actual activity is expected to begin in September. After the discussion and the technical editorials carried out on the draft decision, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Committee on Foreign Policy unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the following draft decision for the adoption of the Calendar of the Parliamentary Dimension of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, 1 January " 30 June 2018, submitted by Gemma Marinova Grozdanova and Kristian Ivanov Vigenin: DECISION adopting the Calendar of the Parliamentary Dimension of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, 1 January The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. To continue the common approach adopted so far, constructive dialogue and consistency of actions between all parliamentary parties in relation to the preparation and implementation of the parliamentary dimension. 2. Accepts the following calendar of events from the Parliamentary Dimension of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, 1 January - Meeting of the Chairs of the Committees on European Affairs of Parliaments in the EU (Presidential Cosac), 21 January 2018, Sofia; - Interparliamentary Conference on the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the Common Security and Defence Policy, 8 February 2018, Sofia; - Interparliamentary Conference on Stability, Economic Coordination and Governance in the EU, 19 February 2018, Brussels; - Joint group for parliamentary monitoring of EUROPOL, 18 "March 19, 2018, Sofia; - Meeting of the Chairs of the Energy Committees of the EU Parliaments, 13 May 2018, Sofia; - Conference of the Committees on European Affairs of the European Parliaments in the EU (Plenanar KOSAC), 17 June 2018, Sofia. "Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u51	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Statements? I don't see any speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I propose to your attention that we vote on a decision adopting the Calendar of the Parliamentary Dimension of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 1 January They voted 133 MPs: 133, no opposition and no abstentions. The draft decision has been adopted. Colleagues, today on the occasion of the World Day for Combating Hepatitis, the National Assembly is hosting an information campaign to support the elimination of this disease. During the break in the eastern couloir, an information stand will be kicked out: "Together against hepatitis." All MPs are invited to attend the opening, as well as to give their support to the cause. Fifteen minutes of rest, then we continue with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u52	Honourable Members, we are continuing today's sitting with Parliamentary control. New questions for the period 21 July "27 July 2017' I won't. Written answers for service. Written response from: - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Kristina Siderova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the MP Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Dessislava Todorova; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on a question from the National Representative Anelia Klisarova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Anelia Klisarova and the National Representative Irena Anastasova; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the MP Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Violeta Zheleva; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the MPs Philip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on a question from the MPs Philip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev. - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the National Representative Kristina Siderova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliski; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov to a question from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Bürhan Abase; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Spas Panchev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the MPs Spas Panchev and Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of the Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the people's ideas Milko Nedyalkov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the MPs Alexander Alexandrov and Krasimir Velchev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on two questions from the National Representative Donka Simeonova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Nina Mitkova; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on a question from the National Representative Nina Mitkova. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u53	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure is in the way of leading you, Mr. Glauchev. Please note, since you, as President of the National Assembly, must also respect the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which is a law not only for the Members of the National Assembly, but also for those who are a function of the election of the National Assembly and the executive power. Asked by me a question to the Minister of Interior, according to the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly in writing as a response, I had to receive today as a final deadline. It is in relation to the verification ordered by the Minister of Interior, to all travelling on motor vehicles, not only to the driver of motor vehicles, but also to those travelling, and is extremely important in terms of the considerations which I have set out. The very fact that I don't get an answer leads to logic related to the cover-up of motives and an order ordered by this inspection. I draw your attention to the fact that the Rules under which I should have received an answer today have not been complied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u54	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. I'll check the circumstances and answer them. A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria: This is the last working day of the first session of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Today we must answer the question: have we succeeded as MPs, through our work here, to be useful to our country? I will try to start with the positive, with the good example, considering the complex geopolitical processes in the Balkans, Europe and the world. Despite our role as opposition, we "the parliamentary group of BSP" declared that we are ready to have a dialogue and to reach agreement on matters of great importance, namely the protection of the national interests of the country on issues related to foreign policy and national security. For us this is the successful holding of the Presidency, our future in the European Union, guaranteeing the sovereignty of the country, protecting the national borders and protecting the security of every Bulgarian citizen. Unfortunately, we only made it twice. The first time was the adoption, on our proposal, of a joint Declaration on the defeat of the Macedonian Parliament. The second time was yesterday when, again on the subject of Macedonia, we supported a joint Declaration of Support for efforts to sign the Treaty of Good Neighborhood between the two countries. It is a good thing that on this so painful historical point of view and so emotional for every Bulgarian theme, we found the same actions and showed consistency! So much for positive examples. Our good intention remains to make important foreign policy decisions after a discussion in the Bulgarian Parliament. You refused the opportunity to draw up a Bulgarian scenario for the development of Europe, which takes into account and protects the national interest of not allowing Bulgaria to be pushed into the periphery of the European project. There is no way for our voice to be heard in Europe, to have a burden on our positions if we have not previously achieved national agreement on them in the Republic of Bulgaria! Instead of talking about the priorities and content of the Bulgarian Presidency, we started looking for who stole the money in the National Palace of Culture. As much as you do not want, the NDK has become a symbol of our presidency. However, let us return to the beginning of our work. After long and excruciating negotiations, or more precisely deals and agreements, a majority of Borisov's office No 3 was formed in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Once again, Bulgarian citizens have been lied to. You came to power on their behalf, and that's why you sold them. You started with scandalous personnel appointments and lobbying bills. You bet on hate language and drawing dividing lines in Bulgarian society. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by AG of GERB.]] The scariest thing about politics is to lie to citizens, using them only as electorate, and after the election not to keep your promises! The first promise you forgot is for a minimum pension of 300 leva. and recalculation of all pensions. You were satisfied with imitation of politics and decision of a piece of over a million and a half Bulgarian pensioners received no increase. Moreover, you cynically opposed pensioners with insurance and age of pensioners with disability pensions. You voted against our proposal, the BSP parliamentary group, to recalculate all pensions. This proposal would solve a number of ill problems, show the MPs' commitment to social theme, remove the large scissors between the old and the newly released pensions. Thus, people exercising the same profession with the same social service would receive much fairer income. The next cheated were those employed in the security sector. You know very well that we cannot guarantee national security and the fight against crime if we do not motivate employees who are employed in them and we do not provide their work financially and technically. Instead of ensuring modernization of the projects in the Bulgarian Army, you stopped them and postponed them for next year. You promised to fill in the state of the Ministry of Interior and to be present in every locality of a uniformed police officer. What's the reality? They wear torn shoes and have to buy their own uniforms to go to work. For great credit, you have noted the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act, allowing missing clothes to be replaced by money, but this, colleagues, is their legal right. It's just that the state hasn't done it before. The Minister of Interior does not understand the arguments and demands of his own employees. His understanding of work in the security sector is: the more listening and following us, the better. So after the insane reform of Bachvarova, this time you are ready to finally destroy the Ministry of Interior. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by AG of GERB.]] They say criminals are the first to feel the sweetness of power. We are witnessing unprecedented violence against the person. No order, no statehood, no country! Everyone steals and beats wherever they fall. Take a look at the last week, beaten by notaries on the street, a famous journalist from BNT in the center of Sofia, and yesterday, a spectacular murder in Plovdiv. You've declared education a priority. Of course, these are just words because, when necessary, you did not support the proposal for amendments to the Family Aid Act for children. We wanted to expand the scope of aid and support for low income families having students in the second, third and fourth grade, so that the first day of school for these families, for their parents, could really be a holiday. Despite the obvious need for amendments to the Preschool and School Education Act, you refused to accept our bill. Once again, you put the successful start of the school year at risk. Thus, I can list GERB's refusal to fulfil the commitments made in the election campaign and to pursue its policy permanently, to be a political demagogue in our latest history for more than ten years. I would like to mention some real evidence supporting this conclusion: I would remind you of the concealment and inaction of the institutions in the established presence of an increased amount of uranium in the drinking water in Haskovo, scandals and checks in the construction of highways and the renovation of residential buildings, NDK and the scandalous comic history with the Sujuka of recent days. As a label of your government, scandals and abuse are imposed. The NDK model is an emancipation of the management of GERB as you say to it, visible results and only, when you pull the curtain, there you see set orders, abuse of power and corruption. At the election of this government, we said that this coalition is dangerous and is betting instability in Bulgaria. Today it's understood by everyone that we were right. Yesterday, another sociological study was published. It shows that nearly twice as many people are those who are disappointed by the government of Borisov, compared to those to whom it inspires hope. Nearly 40% of people live with a sense of deterioration of the material standard and of their households. This is the state of our country today. We've obviously learned that the sudjuk, figuratively speaking, and literally, is for the Prime Minister. But here's the question: how many people can sit at the sudjuka table and who will share it? The Sujuk according to strength and not according to needs.. This is the model of management of GERB. The first government of Borisov 1 was Djankov's pizza, with the government of Borisov 3. Three months after the election of the government you continue to have no legislative and management program. But what do you want her for? You have power, money and public procurement! Borisov leads foreign policy without clarity about state policy in his own country. Alphabetical truth is that foreign policy is a continuation of internal policy. What interests does the government protect if it cannot formulate them on native soil? If you don't know what you want to do at home, how are you gonna protect him out there? As an antipod of all this, the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria stood up. [[Loud shouts: "Eee!" by AG of GERB.]] Thank you, thank you! In these few months it became very clear that BSP is the real management and political alternative to GERB. We didn't lie, and we didn't hand over any of that nearly $1 million. voters who have given their trust for us. We systematically and consistently fulfilled all our commitments in the fight against poverty and major social inequalities, and in support of the Bulgarian production of Bulgarian food, and in an accessible and quality education, taking into account the needs of the country's economy, the support of young people and the elderly. With our drafts, drafts for decisions and parliamentary questions, the BSP Parliamentary Group outlined itself as the most active in this season at the Forty-fourth National Assembly. [[Noise and lines from SG to GERB.]] Guys, we're gonna keep doing this from now on! Bulgaria can and deserves a better future and a better perspective and we are ready to give it! [[Applause from SG to BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. [[Noise and lines.]] On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB, the speaker of the group is Tsvetan Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u57	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The parliamentary group of GERB was due to be the first to read our "Declaration" in connection with the conclusion of this session. We have given the opportunity and opportunity for BSP to correct and be positive when we finish a session so that we can outline our better intentions and good prospects for our country. Unfortunately, on 26 March 2017, when the elections were held, BSP expected to win them over. Apparently, perhaps what will remain as an emblem for these elections and for the way in which BSP increased their parliamentary group was thanks to the talks with representatives who were convicted and serving their prison sentences in order to successfully buy the relevant votes and increase their electoral support. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Dear colleagues, I see that you already want to put a label on the management of Borisov 3 Does this mean that we should label that the increase of your parliamentary group after the early parliamentary elections for the Forty-fourth National Assembly is thanks to the bought votes among the Roma neighborhoods? [[Noise in the hall. Applause by GERB.]] Because you are the ones who have good practices in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u58	And you!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u59	When you evaluate public procurement, you may be referring to what you were known for in your management mandate with Sergey Stanishev with Brother and Brother, the suspension of EU funds, the lack of confidence in the government. The very fact that you achieved this in your management mandate with Stanishev, you confirmed it with your management mandate in Oresharski. But no reason for this declaration today is to give an assessment of your work, because voters are the ones who, over several consecutive national choices, gave their assessment and confidence to the Political Party GERB. A political party GERB conducts a policy that is in line with the expectations of the people and, of course, we make a policy that is not to increase the obligations of our country, not to increase the deficit, but to actually be able with the good financial policy of the Bulgarian government, and thank the Finance Minister that he is here today in the Chamber to hear all these declarations, because he is the person who strictly fulfils the commitments of the Political Party GERB, The political party GERB implements the commitments, but not based on an increase in the deficit, which you did with Oresharski. Just to say that in the upcoming new school year the Bulgarian teachers will receive a 15% increase in salaries. It is a commitment that has been made and it is a commitment that the finance minister can guarantee with the actions he will take when the new school year begins. This is a very clear sign of the attitude and priorities we have in our management mandate. Because without education, we cannot want to increase our economy and increase the potential of the knowledgeable and working people. Of course, what is extremely important is that the issue of pensions is a sensitive topic which over the years has not been solved, but we outlined an opportunity and what the government did and what we have done is to support the proposal and pensions to be the minimum 180 BGN. from 1 July and 200 leva. to be from October 1st. These are commitments that are feasible. These are commitments that are real. As far as the topic is concerned, I think that here, too, I should congratulate, despite this confrontational note that was in the statement of my colleague Boychev, I thank all my colleagues for supporting the legislative changes that have really decided and have given us the opportunity to do what the Ministry of Interior did not deserve, this injustice, for several years not to receive any clothes or the remaining equivalent of this pleasure. This is already a fact, and with the good revenues that are in the budget, the government has set aside these funds and at the last decree just a day ago, the employees of the Ministry of Home Affairs will receive this money on the appropriate schedule. There are many things that can be said and I can assure you that we will not give up on our commitment in 2017 to appoint 1,000 police officers. We will not give up on our commitment and what Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister of the country, declared that the limits will drop so that police officers can make the appropriate rounds and ensure public order and security. Yeah, we do have a couple of criminal cases going on right now. I am convinced that all we have to do is stand behind the professionals, and they have the opportunity to solve these crimes and not come out of this stands and say what the condition is and who it is that has led to this state today. There are many topics we can talk about on the topic of Security. I don't think today, in such a short period of time, we will be able to say everything. But it is extremely important to me that what we did yesterday is that the government can actually stand united, regardless of the differences, regardless of this provocative tone that BSP is asking, that we can reach a political consensus and support the government for the efforts for the treaty, which will be signed between Prime Minister Borisov and Prime Minister Zaev. Here we must take into account all that all Bulgarian governments have done, all parliamentary groups, all politicians, public figures, historians since 1992, when we actually recognised the Republic of Macedonia first. So, from giving an assessment of the foreign policy that the Prime Minister is leading, I think that each of us wants the priorities that are set in the Presidency, the Western Balkans, to be a major focus. This happened thanks to the Prime Minister, to the policy which led the Bulgarian government, of course, and to all the politicians who contributed this to happen. I am convinced that the recognition received by Prime Minister Borisov in recent years gives the opportunity to hear Bulgaria's strong voice in all European institutions and outside Europe. The very fact that Prime Minister Borisov is invited to responsible events and forums, where important decisions on what the European Union should do means a lot. Let's put our hand on the heart and tell the truth.. Prime Minister Borisov is the undisputed leader in the Balkans, Prime Minister Borisov is a leader who can talk to all European leaders [[Applause from GERB and OP]] And that will continue to happen from now on. As far as our legislative activity is concerned, I have mentioned a few things, but I think we should also mention that Parliament has limited the rights of private judicial contractors and has given more to debtors. We introduced a 10-year absolute limitation of obligations, and that was thanks to everyone, despite the differences. The MPs were also able to adopt the Law on the Judiciary, the changes in the PPC. All this is thanks to the joint efforts of all the MPs involved in all these committees. I would like to call on colleagues from the BSP, we know how hard it is for you, we know how painful it is for you, we know that even today, when these declarations were actually to be read by the respective parliamentary group, quite normally and legally had to be done by the respective leaders. Even your leader today is not at work because he may not have the courage anymore and he doesn't have that energy to do it as he does every day. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] I am convinced that after the summer vacation is over, my request to you is just rest, fill yourself with more positive energy, because positive energy gives more productivity. Positive energy enables us to reduce this tension in society that we have observed in recent years. For this tension in society, it is at the intersections, where there is a collision and an incident between drivers, a clash that we are currently observing between trade unions and employers, let us politicians be more moderate, be more pragmatic and work only driven by the public interest and be humble because we know what the attitude of the Bulgarian public towards politicians is, but it is politicians who generate this tension. Despite all the sharp attacks that he had on GERB, I would like to thank all these worthy representatives from the BSP parliamentary group, with whom I can talk normally. I would like to thank you for your responsible behaviour on important topics that are related to national interest. I would like to thank you specifically on the topic of Macedonia because we know how far away we were from each other. Here I would like to thank both Gemma Grozdanova and Mr. Vigenin for proposing a declaration to unite all the main parliamentary groups. I would like to thank my fellow Members from the United patriots for forming this majority! But I would also like to thank the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, because at certain times they exhibit more national responsible behavior than BSP, who always claim and say that they will be nationally responsible. [[Noise in the room.]] I would also like to thank Mr. Volja. Despite the various votes on certain topics. But it's a position that they're building, maybe leading by some party guy, or I hope it's not some kind of conjunctural interest. I would also like to wish them success because we know that they are the new political formation that has entered the Bulgarian Parliament. Let us, within these four years, make Bulgaria's strong team a successful performance in connection with the upcoming Presidency and let each of us contribute to this positive tone! Thank you all! I wish you a pleasant summer vacation! I hope that not a small part of the MPs will continue to work so that they can meet with our main employers on a daily basis, these are the Bulgarian voters. Good luck to you. Be positive and let's put aside this confrontation that you provoke every day! Thank you! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] PRESENTER BREADITER Glavchev: On behalf of the parliamentary group Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the chairman of the group, the national representative Mustafa Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u60	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! The first session of the Forty-fourth National Assembly is over and with this the first 100 days of parliament. If the day is known since morning, the prospect is not good. A clear assessment of the situation is needed and adequate measures and decisions are taken accordingly. With a clear horizon with the upcoming presidency, Bulgaria has no right to make mistakes. Moreover, there is no right to doubt about errors. And what are we actually reading? Lack of a clear programme and management platform, chaos in management. The wrong formula for the ruling majority has set an error in the implementation of the law of the majority and the Council of Ministers. There is a replacement of the vote. The voters have been lied to. High pensions? Yes, you are! High income? Yes, you are! There is hatred, aggression, division, lack of perspective. Aggression is everywhere in schools, in hospitals, on the street, on roads and highways, parks and gardens. It's not a dramatic movie scenario, it's our present. The few legislative initiatives reinforce the sense of chaos, chaos and a lack of long-term vision. The proposals under the Election Code, the Road Movement Act, cash payments, class of time served, for the judiciary, the sale of agricultural land. These are all examples in this direction. We're looking at solutions per piece. There are no debates on important issues concerning economic growth, new and lasting jobs, a strategy in the field of education, health care. There's something more disturbing. A withdrawal trend with the Treaty on European Union. Instead of betting on Bulgaria's chances of membership in the European Union with high production, established business rules, administrative standards and European values, we are again and again returned to the old models of thinking and behavior from the time of the Cold War. It is sad and quite worrying when this happens 13 years after joining NATO and 10 years of membership in the European Union. The movement for rights and freedoms is one of the few Bulgarian parties, and in the current National Assembly is the only one who firmly supported the NATO idea from the very beginning in 1990. As our Honorary President is one of the first and then the entire parliamentary group of the DPS who signed the petition of 22 December 1990, from the very beginning the DPS has held a firm position and has consistently held its Euro-Atlantic policy for 27 years. In the beginning, while most political parties are hesitantly listening, wondering whether this choice will be defined in time as strategically correct or fatal for our country, led by national interest, the DPS led by its leader Dr. Ahmed Dogan called for a real leader. What is important in this case is that we, the MPs, who represent the will of the country's supreme sovereign, the ordinary citizen and the working man, should prevail over our party and political biases and differences and face tomorrow's day of Bulgaria. Today it is easy, as long as there is the will to defend the Euro-Atlantic belonging of Bulgaria, but the quotations are from the dawn of democracy, when many opposed, and others not only did they do nothing, but did not even realize the possibility that our country would fall into fatal political and economic isolation. The DPS has the chance to be among those who have a significant contribution and an active role for our membership in Euro-Atlantic structures. In his historic speech of May 1999, the leader of the DPS reaffirmed the position on the issue of our NATO membership firmly and firmly, I quote: "In his capacity of universal and unconditional, human rights do not depend either on the desire and maturity of the majority in society, nor on the competence and will of the state, because the modern world has put the life of every person on the planet into a measure of value. It is in this dramatic situation in the Balkans that Bulgaria has something to offer as a model for finding a balance between the principle of the national state and the principle of ethnic democracy within civil society. The political matrix of the Bulgarian model for solving ethnic problems implies real integration, not identification and search for autonomy. In the political instruments of the Bulgarian model dominate such concepts, such as peace, balance, tolerance, dialogue, agreement, equality, partnership, togetherness. Membership in NATO and in the European Union means a victory of democracy, a strengthening of democratic institutions and a developed economy; it means external security and political stability, more European values and in this context guaranteed human rights and freedoms and social protection; it means a worthy place of Bulgaria in the Euro-Atlantic space and protection of national interest. In formulating the national interest should be sought the intersection between the interests of all Bulgarian citizens regardless of their ethnicity. We should examine the Bulgarian nation not only within the state borders of Bulgaria but also within the common European borders. You should, but what is it? A lack of management, division, xenophobia, hatred, aggression, ethnic opposition, tension generation. Not only that! With the inclusion of nationalists in power, a retreat from Euro-Atlantic values, an erosion of trust in Euro-Atlantic structures. I will quote again: The first thing is to limit the birth rate in marginalized communities, which practically stimulate the state to give birth to children and drain social funds. The measures to be identified should be identified in view of the future of the Bulgarian nation and the survival of the Bulgarian state, not what Brussels will tell us. These words were spoken in the National Assembly two years ago by a current Deputy Prime Minister. Not the one you thought of, the other one. The fact is that the constituent parts of the formation sound identically.. equally distant from Europe and its values. What excuse can there be for individuals with such views to be placed in strategic positions in the management of the state? There's no excuse! There's no logical explanation. Therefore, there is doubt of re-evaluation of Bulgaria's membership in Euro-Atlantic structures. This governance seriously raises the issue of the need to reaffirm our membership. Today we should rather be discussing real steps for full participation in Euro-Atlantic structures, not formally. Nationalists cannot participate in governance and expect to pursue strategic goals in this direction. In fact, government today is being carried out by nationalists. What is their contribution to the government? Scandals with Nazi taste; high fences to guard the border with a smell of corruption and at the same time a link of nationalist formation in the trafficking of refugees. You can't do that. They can't be the legitimate face of the government. If the largest party does not have a resource, let us state it and seek a solution through the sovereign vote. [[Applause from DPS.]] If the management capacity of the largest political force? part of the EPP family allows for successful Presidency and resolution of urgent issues: unemployment, incomes, pensions, health care, education and security, have our support. Otherwise they'd be mad at themselves. The participation of nationalists in power means less democracy, less economically, less in the fight against corruption, less in the area of human rights, a lack of reforms, and these are major drivers of peace and prosperity. These are factors that determine the investment climate in the country. Low economic growth cannot solve the problems. There was a reduction in unemployment. Yeah, well, the employees don't increase. According to the Annual Report of the European Commission on Employment and Social Development for 2016, every fifth youth in Bulgaria is neither studying nor working. Despite the high levels of employment for the European Union as a whole, in Bulgaria the share of workers continues to be below the employment levels for 2008. The only increase in the background of the drastic reduction for other age groups is the increase in the share of workers over 65 years of age by 0.5%. Today, more strongly than ever, we must state that democracy in our country is at stake, that peace in our homeland is at stake. It is high time that measures were taken. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Democracy, human rights and freedoms, the rule of law, social protection, justice, security, peace are values for which we must fight each day. It is necessary to bring together Euro-Atlantic values, to pursue strategic objectives and the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in response to the challenges of today's times, to be proactive. To strengthen Bulgaria's role and place in the context of the enlargement of NATO and the European Union in the Balkans, moving from the periphery to the centre. This requires state-of-the-art thinking and a state-of-the-art approach to solving problems, European vision and European values, without populism and national populism and long-term horizons. In order not to make the warning of a talented contemporary writer come true that muttering and hating become a standard here, I will recall an Eastern wisdom: "If you think about one day ahead, if you think about one year ahead, plant a tree if you think about 100 years ahead, educate your children. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Are there any other declarations? No, not yet. Before moving on to the response of Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov, I do not see Krasimir Yankov, but it is good to introduce you to the factual situation of his case. On 19 July he addressed a written question to the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev, who enjoys his right to postpone his reply by seven days under art. 96, para. 3. The answer should have been made today. One week delay is September 4th. Mr. Iankov, I will leave it either to him or to you to tell him what happened, and it is good that when someone comes out on the stand and says things that correspond to reality. A question to Vladislav Goranov. He will answer a question from the MPs Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski about the obligations of the national air carrier Mr. Svilensky, are you going to ask the question? Please, you have the floor. [[Noise and lines in the hall. National Representative Mustafa Karadaye spoke with MPs from GERB.]] Honourable Members, please create an appropriate order in this House so that the question and answer can be heard. Mr. Velchev, please! [[Calls MP Krasimir Velchev.]] You have the floor, dear Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly, first of all, I would like to thank Minister Goranov for reacting very quickly to our desire to appear in the Bulgarian Parliament only a week after we reminded him that he should follow the Rules of the Bulgarian Parliament. He is here to answer our question, and I hope that he will actually answer precisely and clearly and that it will become clear what the state cares about the question we are going to ask. Our question is related to the obligations of the National Air Transporter. Dear Minister, according to our preliminary information, the National Air Transporter "Bulgaria Er" AD has public obligations of about 50 million. lv. This, against the backdrop of the increasingly worrying information about the complex financial situation of the company, raises the question whether the Bulgarian state is able to protect its interest and receive the amounts owed to it. In this regard, we ask for your answer to the following: what is the exact amount of the public liabilities of the Bulgarian Republic of Bulgaria Ers. How are these obligations serviced over the last two years, are there late payments and how much? What specific measures have you, as Minister of Finance, taken to secure these claims? Will the interest of Bulgarian taxpayers be protected? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Minister, just one more clarification. Minister Goranov has fully complied with the requirements of the Rules of Procedure. This is about what you said about the previous one. He used his right absolutely in accordance with the Rules of Organisation and the activities of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Svilenski, Mr. Gechev, in the information system of the National Revenue Agency on 25 July 2017 there is no indication of the existence of outstanding public obligations within the relevant period for voluntary implementation of the public obligations of the National Revenue Agency. You should take into account that information on the specific amount of public liabilities of a debtor constitutes tax and insurance information within the meaning of art. 72, para. 1 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (APC), which is why, in the event of the existence of such in the NRA, the imperative provisions of Art. 74 and 75 of the DPC and its provision without the conditions of those provisions would be contrary to the law. In current legislation there is no legal basis for disclosure of tax and insurance information at the request of a Member of the National Assembly. Subject to the provision of art. 80 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, in conjunction with art. 115 to 117 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the National Revenue Agency shall provide to the parliamentary committees data covered by art. 72, para. 1 of the PDK, at the written request of the Chair of the parliamentary committee concerned. We inform you that the National Revenue Agency serves its customers and collects public obligations, respecting the principle of equality and justice laid down in the Agency's client card. Revenue and public contractors shall act within the limits of the powers established by law by applying the laws precisely and equally to all persons. I hurry before your reply to make it clear that the relations between Bulgaria and Sofia airport related to payment of fees are outside the competence of the National Revenue Agency until 5 September 2017 under the International Treaty of the Thirty-eightth National Assembly ratified by the Bulgarian Parliament. In this sense, the National Revenue Agency, as the International Treaty has priority over domestic legislation, cannot until this date apply the Tax Insurance Procedure Code with regard to the settlement of the relations between the Bulgarian Air and Sofia Airport.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u65	Thank you, dear Minister. A line? Professor Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Goranov, of course we have no claim to compliance with the law. I respect what you said as a minister, but I use the stands to pay attention to the following. First, information came out in the media, and Mr. Moskovski before the forty-third National Assembly presented such information about outstanding debts, and I want you to write down and take into account the following, the government and you, as Finance Minister... you are aware that it has been initiated or will be initiated, do not give yourself God, I would say, a procedure to the European Commission, that the Bulgarian State indirectly, indirectly, secretly carrying out a state order to a private company............................................. which does not pay the airport charges in millions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u67	Maybe help, not an order.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u68	So, if this procedure is initiated, you are aware that the Bulgarian state can bear sanctions in dozens and experts and lawyers claim that the hundreds of millions of euros, and then the responsibility will be yours. Secondly, I want you to know that there is no distraction in the future, that it is possible, when a firm has an obligation to the state in tens of millions, according to our data, that planes fly to another firm, Mr. Minister of Finance, and then say that you have not heard because there is such a danger. Have you taken any measures, have you informed the specialized Bulgarian authorities that there is no such transfer of assets? Because if the assets are transferred and the planes fly south when you look for that nearly $50 million, then would it be that there are two brooms left in this company? Thirdly, it is somehow immoral for thousands of Bulgarian companies to pay their taxes, to make efforts, to increase revenues, albeit insufficiently, but this is so that we have always reflected the positive, but who pays? "Small and medium-sized companies. This company, and other companies we will ask you about from the autumn, which pay hundreds of millions of dollars, come out profits in neighbouring countries - the same companies, and you know very well what it is, in autumn it will become quite clear.. for decades do not pay a penny of taxes. In other words, small and medium-sized companies pay, and these men are hiding, here they are stalling, and they owe the Bulgarian budget millions. Keep an eye on the assets, because if it happens that when the Bulgarian state does not give itself God, in the case of an adverse financial development of this company, it turns out that it cannot take a penny and the planes and other assets are gone, then you will answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u69	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. Dear Minister, you will not use the back. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On 28 June, I asked the Minister of Environment and Water in the National Assembly a question to Neno Dimov about the actions taken under the Law on responsibility for the prevention and elimination of environmental damage and to the owners of hazardous waste tanks located in the former factory. The minister requested a one-week delay, then absent twice from the country, but a month later the question had disappeared, in any plan, for an answer. I had a relevant question for Minister Goranov, to which he answered part of the control. Since my hypothesis is that it is a serious budget damage, I disagree with the way that... Although we have Rules of the National Assembly, this question may disappear and the Minister will not answer. Please take that into account and thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u71	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. I will consult and provide you with information within 15 minutes. I will also provide him with information about what happened to his question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I, too, have a question entered from 21 June, and to date, naturally, there is no answer. I would like to draw attention to you here, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that you are here and that you have remained for control, and did not give up your seat to one of your deputies to hear something that, I do not think is insulting only me, but insulting the Bulgarian Parliament, or even neglecting it, namely: last Friday, July 21st, the Minister of Sports Krasen Kralev was in hospital and, while here, from this tribune, I was asking a question to Minister Nankov, and Minister Nankov was so good to appear and answer questions, Minister Kralev at the same time while he was in hospital, was in Varna at a public event of recited poems. I think that if all Bulgarian ministers recite verses when they are in hospital, we would not have problems with culture. It is also nice that Bulgarian ministers and authorities do not only read adventure literature and Winnetou and poetry. But it is good to pay attention, because Minister Kralev, since he has been in this post, has not come to Parliament, and there is no way that this is not interpreted as neglect and what else you think is negative. So please pay attention. And I no longer know this inscription on the central entrance to parliament, is there any relevance?! Whether the power makes the compound, the compound, the power, but maybe, it's starting to bring me to the thought that the game of hide and seek on the part of the government is going through hospital. So pay attention to these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u73	I always pay attention to these things, as you call them, and I will also provide you with information on the case. We are moving on to the questions to Nikolay Petrov, Minister of Health, who will first answer a question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov, concerning the system of fingerprint identification removed from operation on 7 April 2017. You have the floor, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, on 28 March, a five-member panel of the Supreme Administrative Court finally revoked the fingerprint identification introduced in hospital facilities during admission and discharge. According to the judgment, the fingerprint identification system was decommissioned on 7 April. According to public information, the National Fund paid the contractor nearly half a million leva for the development of the system. Hospitals were obliged to buy at their own expense check-in devices at a single value of BGN 286.80. The larger hospitals were forced to buy between 50 and 80 devices to deal with the growing patient flow. It turns out that according to the Health Insurance Fund this revolutionary reform of Minister Petar Moskov has zero economic effect. It not only did not increase the control of the funds spent by health institutions, but created chaos and difficulty for both doctors and ordinary patients. I recall the hundreds of complaints of the sick who waited hours in queues to be accepted for treatment as a result of the minister's revolutionary measure at the time. Following the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court in the media, information appeared that there are hospitals that intend to bring cases against the National Fund to seek compensation for the costs incurred for check-in devices which are currently absolutely useless. Mr. Minister, what is the price of this illegal, as it turns out, reform? Exactly how much public money was spent by the National Health Insurance Fund for the system? What exactly is the amount of funds made by hospitals to buy fingerprints? Are there any cases filed by hospitals against the National Health Insurance Fund at this time? Who and how will bear responsibility for the wasted public money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u75	Thank you, Mr. Christov. The word is made by the Minister of Health. Nikolai Petrov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u76	Honourable Chairman, Honorable Professor. Hristov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! By Decision of 21 January 2016, the Supervisory Board of the Casa set aside a budget and decided to proceed to the implementation of the purchase of a registration system for health insurance events in medical aid contractors of 480 thousand. lv. In this regard, a selection procedure was carried out. A price of 477 thousand has been achieved. lv. That is how I answer your question how much money the Cashier has allocated to this system. Regarding your second question, how much money have the hospitals spent, it is 264 thousand. 900 "265" thousand. BGN, except for medical establishments under art. 5 and municipal hospitals. They don't fit into that number. Another $100,000 has been spent as collateral. lv. or a total of 365 thousand. lv. If we sum it up with the costs that the Cashier made, that makes a little less than $1 million. On your third question, are there any lawsuits filed so far, but there were several letters to the Ministry of Health with questions from hospital directors who will pay them or reimburse them for these expenses. The answer is that the Ministry of Health cannot allow such expenditure is not lawful. Your question is legitimate and you should look for a solution in this direction because, on the one hand, hospitals were really forced to buy these devices
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u77	Thank you, Professor. Petrov. Professor Hristov, you have the floor for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. This must be answered clearly, precisely and comprehensively. Now there's a problem. It takes the view that the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court actually operates from the date of entry into force of a decision. The question arises what will be done with these funds that hospitals were obliged to spend anyway. Of course, the platform of the National Assembly is not a place where advice is given, but I think it is about unlawful acts of the state. The relevant means may be required in accordance with the order of responsibility of the State for unlawful acts committed by its employees, which is undoubtedly any minister. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u79	Mr. Minister, do you want the floor for the back? No, thank you. We move on to the next answer. We will combine the answers of the questions made by the MPs Ilian Timchev, Georgi Yordanov and Valentina Naydenova regarding the implementation of projects for modernization and training in emergency aid, and a comprehensive strategy for the development of emergency medical assistance, and a question by the MPs Alexander Matsurev, Daniela Saveclieva, Georgi Dinev, Stefan Apostolov and Dimitar Gamishev on Operational Program Who will develop the question? Here you go, Dr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! The time has come to ask you our current question to you. In recent months, quite often in the media, the problems related to emergency medical care in Bulgaria come to the fore. We see aggression, attacks on doctors, problems with delayed calls, but they somehow in time and space have muffled a major problem which also interests those working in emergency medical care, and these are projects of the Ministry, which in the years have been extended and are now in danger of Bulgaria losing a very small amount of funding concerning modernisation and training in the emergency medical care system. By December of this year, the projects for renovation and modernization of emergency medical assistance under Operational Programme "Regions in growth" and training of medical professionals in emergency medical care "PULSS" 2 Programme (Practical introduction to the treatment of emergency conditions) under Operational Programme "Human Resources Development." The delay causes tension and uncertainty for those working in the emergency system. That is why this is our question to you: is there a problem in the projects? Are they stopped, or are they just temporarily delayed? Is Bulgaria in danger of losing European funding on these projects? What measures will the Ministry of Health take to ensure their timely start? And in general: what is your vision for emergency medical care and is there a strategy for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u81	Thank you, Mr. Timchev. Mr. Minister, wait until the question is asked and we'll wait for your general answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u82	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Our question is in the same context and we want to ask mainly about the Ministry, which is the beneficiary of the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth " 2014 " 2020 - that is, Priority Axis 4 - aimed at the need to modernise the health infrastructure of emergency medical care in order to develop a system for diagnosis and treatment of patients for emergency needs. The main activities provided for implementation are the purchase of modern vehicles, construction, reconstruction, renovation of buildings, investment in emergency rooms. We fully support the realization of this Project with great public benefit and rely on the purchase of modern equipped ambulances. Currently there are contracts for donations or a free right to use real estate between most of the municipalities in the territory of Blagoevgrad region and the Ministry of Health. The procedure for implementing this axis started in 2015, but currently there is no development. So we ask what activities are to be implemented in order to overcome the delay and when is the Operational Programme expected to be implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u83	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Dear Minister, please come in for a general answer to the question and question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! According to the Operational Programme "Regions in growth", Priority Axis 4 "Regional Health Infrastructure" is envisaged implementation of a large investment project related to the renovation and modernisation of the building fund and equipment in the emergency aid system throughout the country with a total budget of 163 million. 502 thousand.132 lv. In this regard, a series of actions have been taken to prepare the project in advance. The preparation of the project proposal is in line with the priorities of the National Program for Development of Bulgaria 2020, the National Program for Reforms, the National Health Strategy and so on. The activities will cover the emergency rooms of 34 medical facilities, 27 emergency services centers and the 204 branches and exported emergency medical teams. In order to ensure transparency and effectiveness of the preparation and presentation of the project proposal, the process is included as an observer and consultant of the project. A public procurement procedure has been conducted with the subject of the project proposal for the preparation of the project application with a large investment project for support of emergency medical assistance under the Operational Programme "Regions in growth" and is selected contractor "Regional Health Infrastructure" with which a contract was concluded on 17 August 2016 with the subject "Preparation of a project proposal." At the 8th meeting of the Monitoring Committee of the Operational Programme on 28 April 2017, it was confirmed that, with regard to Priority Axis 4, the deadline for submitting the draft proposal by the Ministry of Health was changed from September 2017 to December 2017, i.e. by three or four months, there was an extension of the deadline for submitting the draft proposal. This is taken into account the changes that must take place in the health sector and, in particular, the policies that should be implemented with regard to emergency aid. All documents drawn up should be consistent with the Jaspers. To monitor progress and speed up the preparation of the project proposal, we have formed an interdepartmental working group from the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Health and the Managing Authority. A roadmap for the preparation of the project has been prepared and adopted, detailing the upcoming deadlines and activities. Following the submission of the project proposal within the aforementioned deadline by the Ministry of Health, the same is subject to assessment by the Managing Authority, as well as by the European Commission. On 28 February this year, with the signing of the administrative contract for the provision of grants between the Ministry of Health and the Managing Authority of the Operational Program "Human Resources Development". The budget of this project is 7 million. lv. And it's 100% grant. The deadline for implementation is the end of 2019. The main objective of the project is to improve the quality of emergency medical care provided through investment in human capital. In the implementation of the activities will be built and equipped National Centre for the Continued Training of Emergency Aid Workers, which will implement the Order of Council of Ministers No 239 of 13 September 2016, as well as will organize and carry out trainings for the initial, periodic and ongoing, of those working in emergency assistance. At present preparatory activities are being carried out which are the basis for achieving the main objective of the project and include an analysis of the need for training, development of methodologies and programmes for initial, periodic and continuous training of all categories of staff working in the system, as well as a periodic evaluation of their knowledge. That's what I'm gonna do. There is a certain territory where this Center will be located. There is an announced competition for the selection of the Director of the Center. There is a headquarters, I think of 5-6 people who will be the organizers of the training itself afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u85	Thank you, dear Minister. Two supplementary questions about asking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u86	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Professor Petrov, I'm not satisfied with your answer. You have answered very superficially about the measures that the Ministry of Health will take, whether these projects will eventually be implemented by December. I highly doubt that this will happen because in many of the municipalities and municipal councils there is no agreement regarding the granting of municipal property and the participation in these projects, the municipalities that are defined that the entire project will be implemented on their territory. With regard to the Centre for Staff Training, the state allocated funds for the creation of such a Center, it existed. You didn't tell us why it went so far as to make sure there wasn't a director at all and that it was a 7 million-dollar contract. lv. for the training of the footage without the manager of this National Centre for Staff Training. I have not heard a word about the Strategy, about your vision, as a minister, what you will do in your mandate in the Strategy for the Development of Emergency Medical Assistance. I want to tell you that one of the first shares in healthcare since 1989 is the reform that the state made, and the first unit was the emergency medical care system. She's been using funds since the pre-accession funds and she's been exposed. However, since the funds did not reach both the state and the pre-accession funds, it has been decided that this will be further developed over the years.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u87	You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u88	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u89	That was more of an attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u90	We have collected signatures from over 50 MPs, they are in the Ministry of Industry and are waiting for them to come, to give them to you and to provoke a debate in the National Assembly regarding the Strategy and vision of the Ministry of Health in the field of emergency medical care. Madam President, come in. [[Passing documents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u91	Yes, thank you. We will check the signatures, as well as the draft decision, the request for debate. Colleagues asking questions, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u92	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Mr. Minister. I want to thank you for the answer you gave, but I'm worried. Are you sure the project will be completed by 2019 with a successful finish? Do you have any information on whether all preliminary procedures for municipal councils have been carried out for Blagoevgrad district? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u93	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer the supplementary questions, although precise supplementary questions were not in the strictest sense of the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u94	Thank you, Madam President. I think there were some supplementary questions. A little more details. With regard to the Emergency Aid Modernization Project, we are actually finding the Project underway, there has been a certain delay. For this reason, if you paid attention, we immediately reacted with the establishment of a Working Group, which is from the Ministry of Health, the Regional Ministry, the Managing Authority. A road map has been made with deadlines. I would very much like us to succeed by December to introduce our project proposal and this project to be implemented. We're gonna have a hard time doing it, and we don't have that kind of desire, any changes that could lead to delays. Even in this case, we are obliged to do it and we will do it. That's why there really is always uncertainty, fear that something will go wrong and so on. It bothers me as much as it does me. I've mobilized the teams to the maximum. We'll do everything we can to keep us on schedule, make sure there's no delays. With regard to the Strategy for the Development of Emergency Aid in general, it is clearly embedded in the Programme of the Government and, if you have done your work, in the project itself it is clearly described where and what centers will be revealed, where construction will be made, whether these centres will be in free premises of medical facilities, in other free spaces, whether new ones will be built. That's partly how we respond to you. Our goal will be to realize all of this with a minimum of means, so that there can remain more means for equipment, for vehicles, for equipment. In this order of thought, if possible, if the framework allows it, if this does not create the prerequisites for delay, we will make the necessary adjustments. With regard to the project proposal, when December enters, we have the idea to launch public procurement under condition.. for the equipment, for ambulances, so that we can also buy time. At some point, when they say, yes, you are, to be ready to buy them immediately. If the verifier finds any problems, there is a condition that orders fall and are not bought, but we will also save time. On your question yesterday or the other day I signed a large pile of contracts where municipalities provide terrain and premises and so on. It's pretty done by the front team, it's pretty done by the service team. There are really 4 to 5 municipalities with which we need to negotiate again to end them too, but I have no information to have problems in the Blagoevgrad region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u95	Thank you, Mr. Minister! Honourable colleagues who have put the questioning to you have the right to be treated. Will you take advantage of that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Professor. Petrov, what you have explained to me satisfies me somewhat, but since emergency assistance is part of the national security of the state, there are a lot of problems for which the Ministry stands responsible. Like with a wire. 112 D.O.D. has to do his job, pay the insurance on a wire. 112 to receive calls in due time, and he doesn't know he's been delayed 40 minutes at an address. Going there to the home of the people who are worried you know the emergency in what state it is, the relatives and surroundings around the suffering person in what tension they are in, that they are pouring out all their aggression on the first person they meet, and then as long as the beatings and aggression against the medical staff serving this call at the moment. Let the Ministry of Health do its job, and the emergency workers will give what they have given in the years of reform, and I say most responsiblely here before you that some of the people have taken over the negativity of the entire healthcare reform, with some of them doctors from Emergency Medical. There are many things in emergency care management policy regarding, for example, whether to stay in hospitals, emergency rooms, or return to emergency care. We can also comment on this issue, that is, on the policies of management of all healthcare as part of the healthcare of emergency medical care, which is also part of the national security of the state, so we want to challenge this dispute here in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u97	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, with a letter, inc. No 754-00-90 of 28 July 2017, submitted at 12.24, received a request for debate on questioning and a draft decision on questioning, No 754 05 27 of 28 June 2017, by the MPs Ilian Timchev, Georgi Yordanov and Valentina Naydenova to the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on the implementation of projects for modernisation and training in Emergency Aid and a comprehensive strategy for the development of emergency medical care. The proposal for a debate on the question and the draft decision are signed by 62 MPs, that is to say the requirement of art. 105 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly more than one-fifth of the Members of the National Assembly to make a proposal on the question of debate. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I am calling for the debate on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next sitting designated for parliamentary control. We continue with the answer to a question from the MPs Georgi Strailov Svilenski and Hristo Tanchev Prodanov, on the implementation of the issue. 18 of Decision No RD-NS-04-77 of 21 June 2016 of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! The question I am putting with my colleague, Hristo Prodanov, is, as the President of the Parliament quoted, on the implementation of this. 18 of the Decision of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF. Our question is asked on June 29th, that is to date, I am not sure whether the question is already up to date, whether it has been taken into account on the subject, but we will nevertheless ask it to find out if any work has been done. More than a year ago, the NHIF Supervisory Board adopted a decision, which was quoted as assigning the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund to Dr. Glinka Komitov, to dismiss the Director of the Regional Health Insurance Fund. Has this decision been implemented and, if it has not been implemented, Minister, what is the reason for the failure to comply with the Supervisory Board Decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u99	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have consulted on this case and there is indeed such a decision, but the regulatory basis implies that the Supervisory Board can give an indication to the manager, the manager of the fund may carry out checks, but in a direct sense the Supervisory Board cannot impose on the manager the obligation to release any director of regional health funds. They shall be selected by a competition with a mandate and there shall be a procedure under which verification is carried out and the term of office of the Head of Regional Health Fund may be terminated in case of detected infringements. That's what I can say about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u101	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u102	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I think you've been misquoting a little. However, the Supervisory Board is the managing authority and the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund is obliged to implement the decision of the Authority. And the consequences that are caused by this non-compliance, I will read them to you now to see what has happened, as a result of this delayed more than one year of failure to comply with the decision of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF concerning the Director of the Sofia Health Insurance Fund Dr. Biljana Peneva. On 1 March 2017 Dr. Peneva Director of the Sofia Health Insurance Fund appointed as its Deputy Director Petko Vassilev Panov, who until before his appointment in the Sofia Health Insurance Fund was Head of the Department of Information Services. In his place as Head of Department of Information Service at First SAGBAL, St. Sofia is appointed on 8 March 2017. Kremena Nedelcheva Berova is the daughter of the Director of Sofia Health Insurance Fund Dr. Biljana Peneva. Director of First SAGBAL "St. Sofia" Gergana Kolarova authorized on March 23, 2017 Kremena Nedelcheva Berova daughter of the Director of the Sofia Health Insurance Fund Dr. Biljana Peneva, to represent the medical establishment in front of NHIF, WHOK, the Ministry of Health and all other state and municipal institutions in connection with the implementation of the accounts of the activities of the concluded contracts for the execution of hospital medical care. The power of attorney shall be unlimited and shall be interpreted in full in favour of the delegate. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Dr. Peneva's daughter signed the orders for carrying out checks at First SAGBAL, St. Sofia, appointed by the Director of the Sofia Health Insurance Fund, respectively by her mother.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u103	Finish it, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u104	Kremena Nedelcheva Berova Dear Minister, we will keep an eye on the implementation of this. It is also in your interest to follow, because you were here when the parliamentary group declarations were read. The colleagues from GERB were offended that we talked about a rotten country and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u105	Mr. Prodanov, your time is long gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u106	This is another case for such a rotten country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u107	Thank you. Mr. Minister, for the coat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The question that was asked did not have this factology in order to have the idea in which direction to do this verification. The answer was, of course, subject to this: a mechanism by which the head of the RHIF should be replaced and appointed. I commit myself, I will do a detailed examination, according to the Law on Conflict of Interest, the Law on Abuse of Service and so on, and with my next presence here before you, I will answer to you for this because these relationships were not known to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u109	Thank you, dear Minister. We come to a question from the MPs Stefan Apostolov, Daniela Saveklieva, Georgi Dinev, Alexander Matsurev and Dimitar Gamishev regarding the limitless funding of procedures for assisted reproduction. Here you are, Mr. Apostolov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u110	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is about the limitless funding. In May, the cabinet adopted changes to the State Budget Implementation Order, which practically provides the necessary resources for all necessary procedures for assisted reproduction in vitro. The planned funds amount to 12 million. BGN, which guarantees as much resource as the medical appropriateness and needs of patients require. In this way Bulgaria ranks among the countries leaders in the European Union in stimulating in vitro procedures by the state. Currently, about 3,000 patients have been approved, but are on hold. In this regard, my question to you is: what are the real steps of the Ministry of Health for timely access to in vitro procedures? Are you also preparing changes to the Rules of Procedure of the Center for Assisted Reproduction and to the Rules of Approval?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u111	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! One of the priorities of the government is to provide access to assisted reproduction methods for couples with reproductive problems. The first step in this direction is to take as early as the beginning of the mandate a change in the Order of the Council of Ministers since 2016, and this has been done. The change was published in the Official Journal of the European Union, No. 41 of 23 May 2017, allowing the funds for assisted reproduction activities established by the budget of the Ministry of Health, the Minister of Health to take action to provide additional funds, including from the central budget. This ensures the full funding of activities paid by the Centre for Assisted Reproduction. This, in my opinion, is one of the strongest moves of the current cabinet. Here, if you are impressed, there is no fixed upper limit of this amount. That is, the state, in the face of Prime Minister Borisov and the current cabinet, opened the framework financially so that there is no financial problem in carrying out activities related to assisted reproduction. From then on, there was our task, which had to regulate the rules for these procedures to take place. We have established a working group involving specialists from more centres, from foundations and experts from the Ministry of Health, to change the Rules of Procedure and the organisation of the Center for Assisted Reproduction. Two meetings were held. The changes in the management of the Ministry of Health are discussed. These changes are expressed in the following: an annual budget and a limit for this activity is not available and this would shorten the waiting period, which is now 9-10 months. At the same time, the scope of assisted reproduction activities is also increased. In the past three attempts with stimulation to make eggs are added a fourth attempt and we are thus entering the first threesome of the best developed European countries in terms of this problem. Moreover, the Centre will also finance the transfers of frozen embryos, which will increase at least twice the number of transfers of fertilized eggs in women. Only one embryonal transfer of stimulation is paid so far. We introduce real-time electronic reporting of all activities that take place in the centres with a view to more transparency and more control. We're entering documents to prove any indication. We introduce a criterion for ovarian reserve proof by introducing an established and scientifically proven indicator, namely: Antimüller hormone - 100% reliable.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u113	Time, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u114	Sorry, it's only two or three things.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u115	Okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u116	We precise the criteria for normospermia by introducing the requirements of the World Health Organization. We're introducing a new counterindication to the asoospermia partner is a counterindication now. In breach of some of these rules, the medical establishment will be forced to repay the entire amount paid. All who work with the Assisted Reproduction Centre must have a clearly indicated price list for all other activities with a view to more awareness of patients. At each meeting of the Commission, you will pay attention to the date of the next meeting, but not more than 30 days as an interval. At each meeting, all applications received from the previous sitting will be considered until the applications have been exhausted. All this will shorten the deadlines and people won't wait. Something very important is missing, ladies and gentlemen, the need for applicants to point out their marital status, because, you know, many couples with reproductive problems do not have a marriage. Orders for procedures are received within three months, and now they're waiting almost a year. We're increasing the state of the center itself a little bit. In the composition of the Commission we also include a specialist in imaging diagnostics, because until now there has been none. Take a look at this. The additional payment is prohibited over the amount granted. The assisted reproduction centre shall conclude contracts only with medical establishments which have carried out no less than 100 procedures in the past year.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u117	You can continue in the back, dear Minister, there is an opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u118	I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u119	Thank you. Here's a line for you, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u120	Mr. Minister, I want to thank you for your detailed answer. I would also like to thank the government for their commitment to the election campaign. I think this is very important for families who have reproductive problems and, above all, we are all talking about a demographic crisis, according to my data, about 50 or 60,000 families suffer from these problems and it is very important that we help people. I am very well aware of this problem because every month I donate 50% of my salary and constantly contact people who have problems. I would like to thank once again on behalf of you and the government's colleagues for their commitment and implementation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u121	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? You don't want to. We continue with a question by the MPs Julian Papasimov and Rumen Genov concerning the rules adopted by the Supervisory Board on the terms and conditions for implementing art. 4, para. 1, para. 2 and para. 3 of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017 Here you are.. People's representative Yulian Papashimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u122	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! We have been informed by the managers of various hospital care facilities of significantly reduced estimates of budgets as a result of the Methodology for the definition established by the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund. This creates difficulties in the access of patients and hides risks of increasing the responsibilities of hospitals. The composition of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund was changed at the beginning of June. There was information about meetings held between the team of the Ministry of Health and word organizations to search for a way out of the created tensions. In this regard, the question to you, Minister, is: what measures have been taken to address imbalances in determining the estimated budgets of hospital care facilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u123	Thank you, Dr. Papasimov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Under the rules of the concluded framework contract, you know that the Methodology was to allocate funds to medical institutions according to a formula, using the average cost of hospital care for the last three or six months and adding a 3% reserve. At a meeting, quite prolonged and severe, in the middle or at the end of June, which was attended by the manager of the Casata, the manager of the Medical Union, the Management Board of the Ministry of Health, the Chair of the Supervisory Board, after long debates, came to a decision which was signed as an annex and meant the following: to take the relative share of each medical institution in the general financial framework for the country on a basis of 14 months back from the beginning of 2016, if I am not mistaken, taking into account all the activity and paid, including the claim but not paid by the National Health Insurance Fund. A new formula has been made, and in fact this method of payment to medical institutions has been going on since July. Three percent is removed as a reserve. This decision has led to an increase of over six million per month in funds going to medical facilities. The so-called "indicating limits" were introduced. Indicative means that any medical establishment that makes a larger volume than its intended formula, the excess volume must be checked and then invoiced and paid. These indicative limits clearly do not concern births, dialysis, and intensive treatment. In that order of thought, some publications that had appeared were frank provocation. This is the system that is operating at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u125	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Dr. Papasimov. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u126	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The Minister of Health's response satisfies our question. We are pleased that the prerequisites have been created for avoiding this difficult activity that had been obtained in medical institutions. We hope that with today's selection of the new governor of the National Health Insurance Fund the relationship between Casa will be even better and that much better results will be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u127	And thank you, Dr. Papasimov. Mr. Minister, do you want the floor for the back? You don't want to. We approach the next issue by the MPs Krasimir Sabev and Borislav Borisov on a decision of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund to pay the full value of an artificial heart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u128	Mrs. Chairman, Professor. Petrov, colleagues! My question is about a decision of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund of 20 June to pay the full value of an artificial heart. Mr. Minister, patients with advanced heart failure need a device known as the heart of art before receiving the possibility of transplantation. Up until now, the safe covered 50,000. lv. from the value of this product and the total value is about 250 thousand. This makes it difficult for patients to access this life-saving device. The decision of the Supervisory Board shall be in favour of those in need. My question is: how many patients are expected to benefit from this art heart by the end of the year and how will it affect the Casa budget?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u129	Thank you, Mr. Subev. That was your question. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u130	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Sabev, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Your question focuses on another very good, very positive, very human and useful step of the government that finally solved the problem of artificial hearts. What's this about? Many patients, including at a young age, the last person I can think of, I think, was a man of about 40 years of age, for various reasons such as illness, reach a certain phase of heart failure. Then, if they have the rare chance, the luck of a donor appearing compatible with them and getting a new heart, it's their only chance of life. These people, unlike many others waiting for a transplant, have extremely limited time and usually the clock runs in the opposite direction. An extremely strong move by both the Prime Minister and the government because this problem was finally resolved. For years, artificial hearts were not paid at all. It's a pump with batteries floating in the backpack, and that's how the patient lives. They were worth over 250 grand. lv. And who has the money to take a life that doesn't have the money doesn't live. That's the cruel truth. A few years ago, a decision was made, I don't know exactly when and by whom, but a payment of 50,000 begins. lv. Yeah, but one of these machines costs 250 grand. lv. And it was still the question of whether the patient would have the rest of the money to pay for his life. So I'm extremely grateful for the support. This problem has already been solved. How? The National Health Insurance Fund of the Supervisory Board decided that it will finance up to 8-10 artificial hearts per year. From statistics it is clear that an average is required around 4-5 to be done. I mean, we're insured. How did we do that? When we negotiated with the companies, I thank them publicly for reducing the price and already the hearts are about 160-170 thousand. BGN, not 250-300. I take this opportunity to thank them publicly because it is a gesture of humanity to Bulgarian citizens. So, we're proud to have solved this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u131	Thank you, Professor. Petrov. Here you go, Mr. Subev for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u132	I want to thank the Minister and the government. I've been a donor coordinator for Smolyan County for years. The last patient you mentioned was really from Smolyan. A 40 - year - old young man who really needed the whole area and friends to raise money so that he could receive this artificial heart. I think that, with this gesture of Cashier Supervision and government support, it is shown that the state is committed to a group of people who even appear not to be a large group of 4-5s per year. I don't think it's a big problem for the state to separate it and really give people who have a screaming need for this artificial heart to wait their turn to get a real donor heart. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u133	Thank you, Dr. Subev. Dear Minister, would you like a duplicate? No. We proceed to the next question asked by the National Representative Valentina Naydenova about the idea of the Minister of Health for the gradual replacement of state hospitals with parts and the compliance of this idea with the text of art. 52, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go, Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u134	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! On 1 June 2017, at a regular meeting of the Committee on Health, you launched an idea, namely, I quote: "If we imagine a district town where there is a state and a private hospital, with the years of various reasons the private hospital has developed, and the state is getting worse and worse, at some point we are faced with the dilemma of whether we should continue to maintain the state hospital or stop financing it and change the private commitment to play a role as a district hospital, and not only with interests, direction and financially profitable that we should take on sleep, take on births, uninsured, unfortunately, and so on. One exhales and plays a more and more role as a social hospital, and the other works profitablely. You will be faced, MPs, to solve this problem. From now on, I would like to present you as an idea so that you can think and make a reasonable decision. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following questions: How will the private hospital implement practical constitutional rights of the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, as set out in art. 52, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and namely: citizens have the right to health insurance, guaranteeing them affordable medical care and free use of medical care under conditions and in order laid down by the Law, after the economic rules applied in purely market conditions require economic entities to make profit? And the second: is this the main strategic goal of your management as Minister? to gradually close down the district hospitals on which you are a principal and to provide functions to private structures which, as is publicly known, do not realise an economic activity of which there is no profit?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u135	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. The Minister of Health has the floor for an answer. Nikolai Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u136	Dear Chairman, dear Dr. Naydenova! I will start with the supplementary question that we are all Bulgarian citizens here and live in this country. Everything that is happening in this country is very clear to us and there is no way to keep our eyes open and see reality. What you have quoted as my words, as a quote is extremely accurate and I am grateful that you have been impressed with these words. But this should not be interpreted as a declaration and direction of my work. Believe me, no minister, no matter what political power he's from, would want somewhere to liquidate, shut down state hospitals to work other hospitals. I will repeat again that in certain regions there is a problem, and it is a big problem. When it comes to smaller municipalities, as is the model with Novi Pazar and Shumen, this is to some extent a working option, because the hospital is closed, a subsidiary is established, has a small landline, has access to medical care. When it comes to large municipalities such as Lovech, for example, the problems are severe, large and difficult to solve. While I was listening to your question, I received a text that things with Lovech were bad again, that I would quote verbatim: as if everyone were against this hospital. The workers, our colleagues in Lovech had not received salaries since March. With a lot of effort, we were able to pay their salaries for two months, here a week or two ago, put in equipment, the staff ran away, a pharmacy wouldn't open. Well, to this question, how would we react if on the one hand we took out some money, and we had nowhere to get it out, they had to be at the expense of someone else, to give it to Lovech to save the hospital in Lovech? Well, it's not just her! There will also be a question about the hospital in Stara Zagora. It's also a very difficult situation. I mean, with that, I didn't want to challenge you or give direction to my government. With this, I wanted to enlighten you with a problem that we will have to solve together. There are regions where the situation is really very critical, we need to think in this direction. I'm not inclined to take the words: you will change the private hospitals to do this work. If this is what we think, then we publicly acknowledge that they are not equal partners, the private and state hospital. On the other hand, that can't happen. Health can't work and shouldn't work with coercion, but can happen with other mechanisms when God willing we get to the moment to make hospitals compete for urgency, compete for births, compete for uninsured patients. That's where I meant we have to think. But when 240 minds think, I think the result will be a little bit bigger than when one thinks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u137	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dr. Naydenova, come in, you have a chance to make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u138	Yes, Minister, it was true that this was one of the first meetings of the Commission at the time and it was still an option for discussion and an opportunity for such. But I would like to make the following statement that you, as Minister, made your choice to be Minister of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria. But you have also made your choice with your quick measures to stop at least for now the bankruptcy of the district hospital in the town of Lovech. I think that from now on, the state in our own person and in your Ministry of Health should ensure the normal work of each district hospital, exercise its strict control over their management. Because they are really part of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria and they do not think they have the right to bankruptcy. And where should private hospitals be in this entire system? I believe that starting today, we are starting to solve the matter together, and indeed more minds are making the right decision. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u139	This was the People's Representative Valentina Naydenova. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? You don't want to. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov regarding plaque prosthesis of the chewing machine in elderly people. Here you go, Assoc. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u140	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! It is known that there is one category of patients, fully toothless patients over the age of 75 who, although regularly insured, cannot use their activities in the National Health Insurance Fund for the simple reason that in the dental package there is no recovery of their chewing apparatus, orthopedic. It is known that this problem was one of the elements in the negotiations on the last National Framework Treaty, agreement was reached. At least in the words of the then administrators of the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Health, sufficient funds were provided to take over the recovery of the chewing machine in partially and entirely toothless patients over 75 years of age and the corresponding amendment to Regulation No 2 of 2016 was made and one exclusive deadline 1 July was given. Recently, statements from senior health fund administrators have emerged that there is no money for this activity. I don't think there's gonna be any money in this state that pays off the drugs, the drugs from the Health Insurance Fund, there's not gonna be money to restore the patient's chewing apparatus, but to hospitals, to pump, to pimp, and so on. My specific question to you is: what measures did the Ministry of Health take to comply with the deadline 1 July 2017 for recovery activities of the chewing machine in partially or fully detached adult patients over 75 years of age provided for in § 2, item 2. 1 of the Ordinance supplementing Regulation No 2 of 2016 laying down the basic package of health activities guaranteed by the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, issued by the Minister of Health and published in the Official Journal of the European Union, issue 37 of 9 May 2017?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u141	Thank you, Assoc. Yordanov. You have the floor, Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u142	Honourable Chairman, Honorable Assoc. Yordanov, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! The idea of amending Ordinance No 2 of 2016 on the definition of the basic package arises and is realized during the caretaker government. The Appendix to Ordinance No 2 of 2016 concerning the plaque prosthesis of partially or completely teethed persons over 65 years was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 9 May 2017. Therefore, the excess of funds in the NHIF was a fact when this Ordinance was adopted. Moreover, a letter from the Bulgarian dental union came to the Ministry of Health asking questions about financial security on this topic. It claims that the deferred payments for 2016 amounted to 14 million. 444 thousand. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: lv. In this regard, the Ministry of Health sent a letter to the Bulgarian dental union and to the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund to take account of this issue, because on the one hand we have adopted a regulation, on the other hand we have insufficient funds. We also insist on a clear answer. Is that gonna happen? When? And if it doesn't happen, with what argument? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u143	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Assoc. Yordanov, you have the opportunity to make a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u144	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! Another paradox in our country, the Ministry of Health says that one activity should be included in the health care package, the Health Insurance Fund refuses to pay it and says it has no funds. Don't the laws apply to these friends of ours from the Health Insurance Fund? I sympathize with you, Mr. Minister, personally I am satisfied with your behaviour in this case, but I cannot be satisfied with the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u145	Thank you, Assoc. Yordanov. Mr. Secretary, will he have the back? You will not take this right. We continue to ask the MP Georgi Yordanov about validating the National Health Card. You're welcome to develop your question, Assoc. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u146	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! One of the main documents, I would say the most basic document in the Republic of Bulgaria, is the National Health Card. It defines many things, among which district health cards, the specific needs of doctors, dentists and health professionals, hospital bed needs, medical institutions carrying out high-tech activities and treatment. She has a map of Emergency Medical, which contains location and number of Emergency Medical Centers. The map had to determine the required number of hospital care facilities and beds and limit them through the National Framework Treaty. By Decision of the SAC of 18 May 2017, the National Health Card was repealed. This has created, in my opinion, substantial administrative difficulties. My question to you is: what is your opinion on the cancellation of the National Health Card from the National Health Card, what is your strategy on validating the National Health Card and do you think that the repealed version of the National Health Card needs updating with regard to the demographic characteristics of the individual areas and their health needs, including high-tech diagnostics and treatment?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u147	Thank you, Assoc. Yordanov. Come in for an answer, Professor. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will save from the answer what was contained in your question, namely that the card regulates the need for dentists and dentists, regulates the need for number of beds and high-tech hospitals, but does not regulate the number of medical institutions. On May 12, three members of the Supreme Administrative Court announced the nullity of a decision of the Council of Ministers on the National Health Card. In this situation, the National Health Card continues to act and will cease to act if a five-member staff leaves the decision in force and it is declared invalid. In other words, this procedure has been appealed by the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Health and we are awaiting a decision of the five member states in the US. With regard to updating the Health Card, there are several types of updates. One is a complete update that is made once every three years and the other is a partial update. Partial updates are made in several very clear criteria: First, in the event of significant changes in the health-demographic characteristics of a particular region; in the case of significant changes in the structure of hospital aid when we have the closure of hospitals, the merger of medical institutions and thus reduce beds; and in the case of changes in the structure of hospital institutions, where there is, for example, the creation of a new hospital, when new activities are created, the number of beds above those laid down in the Health Card is increased for the same reasons. Finally, in the event of new highly specialised activities relating to new health technologies. There is another update option and it is in case of a change in the number of beds in each hospital within 1 to 31 January, i.e. only for January, a reasoned request for a change in the health card can be made, then an analysis is made, the National Health Card Commission is pronounced and a partial update is made. A little information. In early 2017, the total useability of beds was 58.83 per cent. There are developed in different specialties, I will not bore you, but what makes the impression is that the highest useability of beds is more than 70% in the districts of Ruse and Shumen. Overall, there is no shortage of hospital beds by species. For the two-year period from 2014 to 2016, there have been no changes in the demographic characteristics of the individual regions. According to the Statistical Institute from 2014 to 2016, the population decreased by 1.4%. The natural growth rate for 2014 is 5.7, 2016 six weeks, which does not require an update at the present time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u149	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Prof. Yordanov, ask two supplementary questions within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u150	Madam President, Mr Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, that is exactly what it is when we talk about the expansion of the health system, rather the desire for new activities in different regions. At the moment, I think, given the financial situation in healthcare, we are exactly in the opposite situation, that is, we have a process of dropping out of health activities. You commented, I'll afford a little for the hospital in Lovech. There, due to the poor financial condition of the main hospital in the region, people are deprived of territorially close access to any of the main activities. If I'm not mistaken, vascular surgery was. That is why I asked a question: not when there is a request for new activities, but how will we provide people with access to these activities, which, with the current health card, which you rightly pointed out is still under appeal, cannot be provided? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u151	Dear Minister, please come in for an answer to the supplementary questions within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u152	You're bringing me back to the case of Lovech, Assoc. Yordanov. He's really been my pathological dominant in the last few weeks. We've made an attempt and we're going to hold on tight to the healing of this hospital. There is an appointed prosecutor, there is a team of financiers, a lawyer, there is very powerful support from the district governor. I'm using the case to thank him. We have provided donations, we have launched a program with leading specialists from the country from large Sofia hospitals to go on site so that they can attract patients and give patients access to highly qualified specialists. We have provided them with salaries, and I hope that this problem will also be resolved in the coming months. A hospital recovery program has been launched on the basis of cost optimization, struggle for more revenue and, God forbid, the hospital will work. I think I'll be ready January to see for myself whether or not we made it. But if you imagine hypothetically that we don't succeed, it's a very good question: how do we provide access to healthcare there? We have option 1 - restructuring of the hospital in two or three small wards with small stationers and with the staff available to perform a medical service for the population and redirect patients to the nearest higher-specialized, larger, and better working medical facilities such as in Pleven. In this regard, I would like to share a number with you, which impressed me very much. When I looked at the references, during the collaboration with cardiology, which was there in contractual relations, I think the coronarys were moving about 200 a month. Once this laboratory has ceased its activity, there are two patients with suspected heart attack to Pleven, meaning there is something here and we need to find out what this thing is. Indeed, you are right in this respect, the state must have the commitment and it will not back down from that, I assure you, there is an urgency as an admission, an opportunity for a maternity ward, an opportunity for emergency surgery and anything that concerns an acute response at the moment. Which can be transported and postponed, it'll probably be transported, but that's a pessimistic version of our efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u153	Thank you, dear Minister. You don't want to express your attitude, Assoc. Yordanov. We move on to a question from the National Representative Spas Panchev about the state of the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Dr. Stoyan Kirkovich "AD" Stara Zagora. Here you go, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues! The fourth largest University Multiprofile Hospital in Bulgaria "Prof. Dr. Stoyan Kirkovich is the most committed in Stara Zagora, with 25-26 million accumulated in recent years. The hospital employs about 1,100 people, 250 doctors, 450 nurses, 250 rehabilitators and 150 other administrative staff. For now they have no problem with salaries and manage to receive them. At the moment EVN, who had secured the hospital's accounts, refused to raise the debt, and from the 1st salaries of the specialists will go to EVN. And if the doctors are ready to wait, I'm convinced I don't see the prospect of the hospital, because after Monday there will be no money for medicines, for supplies, which means there will be no emergency aid and even worse, which will cause the sick to be moved to other hospitals. Two weeks ago the Prime Minister was in Stara Zagora, he was also informed of the serious condition of the hospital. I am convinced that you have also informed him and are taking some measures. Please inform us what measures you are planning! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u155	Thank you, Mr. Panchev. For an answer the Minister of Health, Prof. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u156	Mr. Panchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The case is indeed a long-standing case. I remember in 2013 or 2014, when I was a short minister of service, it was once again a very difficult case, there were strikes, then the process of unification of the two hospitals was under way. It is good to remember that as early as 2012, when the process for unification of the District and University Hospital began, at this time the hospital's debts were 24 million, that is, here we are talking about an old period. This is also a topic that will eventually come on the agenda of Parliament. These are debts more than six, seven, eight years ago. For comparison: 2012 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and This shows that the hospital is doing well. Everything you say is a fact. These are the backpacks full of iron we've been carrying for many years and we can't handle them. The Ministry of Health helps with what it can do, but it can only happen on the way to providing funds for capital expenditure and payments under subsidy, on the methodology for subsidising medical institutions. The idea to draw credit, at best interest-free government loan, in a case not so good credit from a bank, but at a low interest rate, is as if working. But believe me, with this huge debt, only interest is enough to kill any hospital, firm, and so on. It's something that hasn't been decided in many years. It ties the hands of any guide. The current Director, Prof. I know him personally, many times we have met, for example he cannot make a public contract for the supply of electricity, go out on the free market and achieve a reduction because, first, he has to pay his electricity bill. And he owes 3 1/2 million! For comparison, I'll give you.. because, as I often go to the hospital in the morning, my successor told me that in one year, since we ordered to supply the free market, we've saved 1 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. for electricity at the same consumption. Here, however, this hospital is in the corner and can't do it. First, she needs to reset her account and make an order right away. How do you charge 3 1/2 million? They are having talks with the prime minister, I too, with the finance minister, and we are looking for a solution. The solution will most likely be in the direction I mentioned earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u157	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next is a line from the National Representative Spas Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u158	Speaking, Mr. Minister, about the enormous duties, of course, I did not point to your government, your current government. I know you're not guilty of this, and I even know that in the last two years, the hospital has managed to pay nearly five million overdue payments. The hospital has a capital of 16 million. lv. The default is 17 million. You yourself understand the state in which he is in and, if there is no help, any solution will undoubtedly go bankrupt, and it is a hospital where several hundred thousand people from the Stara Zagora region are treated, with very good specialists and a good name. There's no turnover. People understand problems and still work in them. Currently, even one of the buildings in which the Auchero Gynecology Clinic was housed until recently is moving to the hospital building, and this building, which is being released, is in good condition and could bring about 6 and a half million leva on sale. The idea of the state taking ownership of this building and increasing capital by so much would be a very good opportunity to get out of the crisis. I know the Minister can't solve it himself. I'm glad the Prime Minister's engaged. I also told the head of the National Health Insurance Fund for a reason about the problem he has, and I am convinced because he took note that he too, where there are delays in payments to the Casa, will try to make a decision. I have held talks with colleagues from GERB's leadership, from the parliamentary group, you are right where we work together to solve some problems, there is a better prospect of getting out of them. I hope we have news soon to greet each other with something good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u159	Thank you, Mr. Panchev. Here you go, Mr. Dummies Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u160	Mr. Panchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Mr. Panchev, you caused this news and she just came to me. Deputy Minister Nenkov sent me a text message, talked to Prof. Nenkov. Yovchev, that EVN is lifting the stand, but this is a temporary measure. What you mentioned about this building, we're in the loop. We're preparing documents right now, and we're going to use the idea. Moreover, I have spoken with the Finance Minister................................... to move on to the sale of the building and the funds to enter for repayment of overdue debts. However, when due debts are paid, debts at all, and we have financial resources, then we will try to achieve a better result.... with one unit to pay one and a half and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u161	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We approach the last question to the Minister of Health. He was appointed by the MPs Bogdan Botsev and Nikolay Boshkov regarding the disclosure of an emergency care subsidiary in Belitsa municipality, Blagoevgrad district. Here you are, fellow Members, to develop the matter. Here you go, Mr. Botsev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Lord Minister, dear colleagues! My question is about the opening of an emergency services subsidiary in Belitsa municipality, Blagoevgrad district. The municipality of Belitsa covers 20 settlements, 8 of which are in the high mountain part of the Rhodope Mountains. According to the GRAO department, as of December 31st of last year the residents of Belitsa municipality at a permanent address are 10 thousand. 250. Of these, 3437 live in the town of Belitsa, and the rest are unevenly distributed in the 11 villages in the municipality. Hospital assistance is carried out in the municipality of Razlog, as there is the nearest multi-profile hospital. The Emergency Medical Center is located in the town of Razlog and a branch in Yakoruda. However, they are too far away from the administrative center. They are 18 km away, and to the furthest settlement in the municipality the distance is 60 km. Sixty-eight percent of the municipality's residents are 30 minutes away from the nearest emergency health care center. The other 32%.. the situation is even worse. They need more than an hour and a half to get to a place where they can get help. The large distance between the different settlements in Belitsa municipality, the remote location of the Emergency Aid Centre in Razlog, combined with the severe winter conditions, creates great difficulties for residents and residents of the municipality. The opinion of the municipal leadership in Belitsa, expressed at the time of the meetings held with us, is that it is imperative to open an emergency medical care centre or a subsidiary of such a centre to serve the territory of the municipality. Only in this way can rapid and adequate medical care be guaranteed to the residents and guests of the municipality. A good prerequisite for the opening of such a subsidiary is the fact that the municipality has the necessary material basis for the normal functioning of the centre. My question to you, Mr. Minister, is this: what are the possibilities and views of the Ministry of Health for revealing an emergency medical care subsidiary in Belitsa municipality and what time could this be realized?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u163	Thank you, Mr. Botsev. Here you are, Minister, for the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u164	Mr. Botsev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is no open hospital care facility on Belitsa territory. Medical services are carried out through outpatient medical care in one group and five individual practices, and emergency assistance is carried out by the two branches in Razlog and Yakoruda. The film in Razlog is structured with three teams: one resuscitational, one medical and one stationary. There are two teams in Yakoruda: one medical and one stationary. In 2016, the calls for the whole municipality were 216 for Belitsa 128 and 88 for the villages of the municipality. For the first half of 2017 the calls are 153 "for Belitsa 110," for the other settlements 43. Although emergency medical care for the population in the three municipalities shows an average workload of less than two calls to an address for a 12-hour shift, I agree with the fact that you are raising this problem. In this regard, after an analysis in the course of the implementation of the Emergency Aid Project, with available resources, your proposal for the creation of such a subsidiary can be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u165	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a chance to make a line. Here you are.. the People's Representative Bogdan Botsev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u166	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I think the Centre for Emergency Medical Assistance in Belitsa Municipality is very important for the population throughout the region. Once it is seen and done this analysis, if there are remaining funds, I hope they will be invested in the construction of this centre. As I said, the municipality has the necessary building and the resource that will be needed will not be that large. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u167	Thank you, Mr. Botsev. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? You don't want to take the floor. Thank you for your participation in the parliamentary control. We are going to answer the questions to Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. It will answer a question of the MP Martin Tinchev and Dimitar Alexandrov on the implementation of the schedule for extending the resources for the operation of the V and VI block of the NPP.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! The extension of the period for the operation of the IVth and VIth block of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and their re-licensing are commitments whose timely implementation is extremely important for the Bulgarian energy sector. The complex investigation of the two units is over. A comprehensive complex programme of activities for improving safety and ensuring the duration of the operation has been established for NPP Unit V. In this regard, my question to you, Madam Minister, is: How is the implementation of the schedule for extending the resources for the operation of the V-th and VI-th bloc and what is the status of the process for renewing the licenses of the two units? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u169	Thank you, Mr. Tinchev. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u170	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Tinchev, dear Mr. Alexandrov! First of all, I would like to thank you for putting this extremely important issue in relation to the extension of the life of the V-th and the VIth block of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" because this is a topic which is a major priority of the government in our management programme. It's a subject that's connected to our energy security. At present, according to the existing operating licences, units V-t and VI-t of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy' have a project resource for operation, respectively: V-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-to 2021, and plans are to be extended by at least 20 years. In accordance with the law on the safe use of nuclear energy in compliance with the requirements laid down by the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, a complex survey and evaluation of the residual resources of the equipment and facilities of the units V-th and VI-th of the nuclear power plant was carried out. Preparation programmes were developed for the continuation of the period of operation of the V-th and the VI-th block with implementation period 2014 - 2017 for the V-th block, and 2016-2019 for the VI-th block respectively. The programme for continued operation of the V block was implemented as on 27 October 2016, Kozloduy NPP submitted to the Nuclear Regulatory Agency the complete package for the renewal of the licence for operation of the V block for a period of 10 years, the maximum permitted under the Law on Safe Use of Nuclear Energy. The licence is expected to be issued before the expiry of the previous ones, the deadline of which is 5 November 2017. 227 implementing measures are provided for block VI. On 28 January 2016, a contract was signed between the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and "Rosatom" service and "Risk engineering" for the development of a justification for the continuation of the life of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" up to 60 years, analysis, estimates and quantitative assessments, of the assessment of the residual resource respectively structures, systems and components. The activities of the project for the continuation of the life of the VIth energy block shall be carried out within the planned deadlines and volumes, subject to the timetable set. The required technical documentation of the main contracts as set out in the project time schedule is received, accepted and approved. For the preparation and transmission of the renewal documents, the licence of the VIth Power Block in the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" has been established and the package of documents has to be submitted to the Nuclear Regulatory Agency by 2 October 2018. In conclusion, I would add that, to date, there are no unresolved issues, organisational or technological obstacles to endanger or delay the implementation of the project activities for the continuation of the duration of the operation compared to the timetable set. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u171	Thank you, Minister Petkova. Here's a line, dear Mr. Tinchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u172	Thank you, Madam Minister, for a clear and precise answer. Of course, a small part of this information we receive through the media, but I personally hope that we can count on you in the future to inform us about this so important issue, namely the extension of the life of the V-th and VI-th block of the NPP. Thank you, one more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u173	Thank you, Mr. Tinchev. Would you like a douche?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u174	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u175	You don't want to. We come to a question from the MP Daniela Maleskova and Vladimir Valev about the National Storage of Low and Medium Active Waste. Please ask your question, Mrs. Maleshkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u176	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! My question is about the National Warehouse for burying low and medium active waste. And in that regard. How is the process of building the National Storage of Low and Medium Active Waste? What are the time schedules and are there building permits issued by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works as well as the Nuclear Regulatory Agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Maleshkova. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u178	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mrs. Malechkova, Dear Mr. Valev! Undoubtedly, the question that you are asking is also extremely important from the point of view of the energy sector in Bulgaria. Building a warehouse for this kind of waste is one of our main commitments, which we have also made as a member of the European Union. So the topic is extremely important and extremely up-to-date. The safe management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste, including the construction of the National Storage of Low and Medium Active Waste, is one of the main priorities in the Government Programme. The first stage of the construction of the National Repository for Low and Medium Active radioactive waste is intended for the storage of processed and conditioned radioactive waste from the decommissioning of blocks I to IV of the NPP. By Decision of the Council of Ministers No 683 of 25 July 2005, the construction of the National Warehouse was entrusted to the State-owned enterprise. The management of the project is carried out by the state enterprise and an international consultant. The Warehouse will be a multi-barrel, surface, modular engineering facility located next to the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" at the site "Radiana" which received the status of an object of national importance as well as a national site. The construction of the National Warehouse is intended to take place in the period 2016-2021. The introduction into operation of the facility is foreseen for 2021 with a period of operation of 65 years. By order of the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, the site and technical project for the construction of the repository are approved. On 7 July 2016, a contract was concluded with a contractor for the construction of the first stage of the National Warehouse. Preparatory work on the site has been carried out since 2014. An industrial fence has been built, a road is being prepared for the construction activities and pre-exploitation, radiation, geodetic, hydrogeological monitoring of the site is being carried out. The main funds for the construction of the National Warehouse are provided by the International Fund, which is implemented by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, to a total of 71 million. Euros. The Radioactive Waste Fund shall provide the activities of the State-owned enterprise "Radioactive Waste" within the framework of the agreed budgetary procedure for the year concerned and on the basis of an approved annual work programme of the enterprise. At the first stage will be built the first module of the Warehouse 22 cells that will absorb 6 thousand. 336 pieces of concrete containers, as well as the entire infrastructure of the site. The construction of the second and third modules will be carried out in accordance with the rate of generation of radioactive waste from the operation of the nuclear power plant, as well as radioactive waste from other nuclear applications from industry, medicine, agriculture and research. For the construction of the national repository a building permit is required by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, according to art. 148, para. 3, p. 2 point (b) of the Law on Construction and Construction by the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, pursuant to art. 15, para. 4 t. 3 of the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy. On 5 May 2017, the Nuclear Regulatory Agency issued the relevant permit for the construction of the national repository, and on 25 May 2017, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works issued a building permit which entered into force on 25 June 2017. So that all these important stages, during which the construction of the national repository must pass, are already a fact and are due at the end of August, or perhaps the beginning of September, to be given the real start and to be made, so to speak, the first crack of this very important project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u179	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line. You don't want a line. Therefore, there will be no duplicate. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your participation. We come to an answer to questions and questions addressed to Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science. He will answer a question from the MPs Anelia Klisarova, Ivo Hristov, Nikolay Tsonkov and Stoyan Mirchev about the implementation of the Operational Program "Science and education for smart growth." Here you go, Professor. Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u180	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will start by asking this question, which was asked last month, and I must say that thanks to our efforts and the efforts of the European Affairs and Control Commission, a wonderful meeting took place. A discussion with which we discussed many of the problems related to the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." Therefore, I thank all my colleagues, and this time my questioning will be quite brief, because much of the questions have already been discussed and discussed. Thank you for the correct answers, Mr. Minister, but still some of these questions remain to be answered. Because unfortunately, there is still a risk of the loss of funds under the operational programme. Especially critical is the first axis, and this is the money for science. For the first time in Bulgaria and the Ministry of Science has an operational programme, it is the managing authority, it is the beneficiary, the Ministry is the beneficiary, and this is extremely important because 350 million is 350 million for science, which our country is difficult to separate from the state budget. In this regard, first of all, I would like to say that we must not afford to lose, and I think that both the Minister and the entire Ministry work in this direction. But what's the worry? Colleagues, 2017 until December the N+3 rule expires. This means that we must have verified means by then, otherwise we will not be able to implement this program. Therefore, I would like to ask: if we already have a contract with the valuer company with the Italian company, I am not mistaken "Progetti Plant" and they will be able to evaluate the projects in time, because by the end of 2018, you know that we need to start taking account of these projects. My second question will be related to the Agency. Will this Agency need, we said, does it need an accreditation, does it need an audit, and what are the deadlines, if it has to have this audit, so that we can not lose money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u181	Thank you, Professor. Klisarova. Allow me to give the floor to Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science for an answer. Mr. Minister, please respond within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisarova, I have had the opportunity to answer many of the questions. Indeed, the period in which we are present is linked to significant challenges regarding the implementation of the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." Perhaps three are the main challenges that I had the opportunity to present before the joint meeting of the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on European Affairs. With regard to the first axis, as you mentioned, this is a challenge related to overcoming the delay or more precisely preventing further delay as we cannot return the clock. I tried to be as correct as possible in my forecast, and I said that the probability of losing funds is there, although there is a very realistic scenario in which a certain percentage of the funds may not be reached or not realise the full amount of the expected adjustment under the intermediate target rule that we have 2018 to verify a certain percentage of the funds. With regard to the second and third axis of the Operational Programme, where the funds for education are, there the challenge is related to the implementation of the recommendations of the audit report. One of the main recommendations is to divide the ministry's functions as a governing body, on the one hand, and a specific beneficiary, on the other. The specifics of these axes and of the operations we perform and of the education system suggest that we, the Ministry, should be a specific beneficiary in large-scale operations. In fact, we are the Ministry, which is the largest specific beneficiary in general, and on the other hand is a governing body. Audits, whether by the Directorate General or by the new agency, will be permanent. They will be about the implementation of the programme. As regards the preliminary audit of the systems that are being carried out or the so-called "accreditation', it has already been carried out. To date, what we have as an opinion from the European Union fund audit authority designated to be the European Union Fund Odite Executive Agency is that we will not need re-accreditation. Your proposal at the meeting of the two committees was very correct, we still have a backup option. Of course, the precautionary principle requires that we have several options, to insure ourselves, so that we do not allow further delay. The third challenge is also related to capacity building or strengthening, improving the capacity of the managing authority. Something that will be difficult, one of our most difficult tasks, but I hope that we will be able to deal with it. With regard to the specific question, do we have a contract with the valuers? Yesterday I was told we had a signature on our side. I'm not a contracting entity, there's an authorized person. The contract will be concluded when they provide us with a bank account. I guess this will be the beginning of next week. Two questions were raised by the colleagues of the company, which organizes the evaluators. One is about them implementing the evaluation faster, clearly, letting them understand that we are in a critical period with the deadlines and with the implementation of the first axis of the Operational Programme and, secondly, with regard to the qualification, the expertise of the valuers, which in turn will determine the quality of the evaluation process. The first-axis funds amount to 560 million, but 350 million are the two largest operations. The Centres for excellence and the Centre for competence, around which and on the basis of which the new scientific infrastructure needs to be built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u183	Thank you, dear Minister. For two supplementary questions, within a total of two minutes, you have the floor, Professor. Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues, I am pleased with the answer, because it is very good that no additional accreditation is required, which will require one period may from tomorrow and up to six months to engage, and that is good. I see that the Ministry is making every effort not to lose these funds for science and education, but it is extremely important to set such criteria to valuers that project authors are satisfied, satisfied and for the next delay after the evaluation, which is a real risk too, it is to have an appeal in the ranking of projects. In this regard, I am simply asking you: is it thought about, within three months, the project evaluation period, and do we have the opportunity to make such criteria for these evaluators so that scientists are satisfied with the ranking, although I am convinced that there will always be dissatisfied? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u185	Thank you, Professor. Klisarova. You have three minutes, Minister Valchev, to answer the additional questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u186	Thank you. Yes, the term under contract and under the valuation procedure regulated in the regulatory framework is three months. The directions in which projects will be evaluated are eight, for the two operations of four areas. I hope that on some of them there will be an opportunity for the evaluation process to proceed more quickly and that there will be no appeals that will delay the conclusion of the contracts. As regards the qualification of valuers, it is laid down in the criteria for the contract. I hope that good international evaluators will be selected. The company itself, as far as I met it, has 25 years of experience in these activities. The valuers will be from more than 13 countries. The most important condition is that they are independent of those assessed. We hope that this condition must undoubtedly be met. From then on, there are criteria for scientific qualities, the scientific expertise of these evaluators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u187	Thank you, dear Minister. For the treatment of prof. Klisarova, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u188	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am satisfied with the answer and with the exact deadlines of three months, which the Ministry places. And with regard to capacity, human resources are extremely difficult, I agree, and I guarantee that any of us would cooperate, that this capacity should also remain for our scientists and our education, and not to return them to the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u189	Thank you, dear Professor. Klisarova. Next, a question by the MPs Halil Letifov, Errol Mehmed, Sergei Kichikov and Ishan Hakke concerning the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science on road safety. You have the floor, dear Mr. Letifov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, your Ministry and your participation in the Transport Committee have one common contact point. This is § 4 of the Law on Road Traffic, from which I will quote the following text: The Ministry of Education and Science provides through the relevant curricula compulsory study by students in the system of secondary education of road traffic rules. Dear Minister, allow me to give you a small transitional task. When you cross the street, in which direction do you first look to the left or to the right? If you could answer me. One study shows that from 10 children to IV class when crossing street nine of them look first to the right. One of them looks to the left first. In this regard, Mr. Minister, I will introduce you to the task of training on road safety. Of course, you know it, it's actually to develop, to open the child's sensor, that is, its protective mechanisms to hear, to see, to judge, to be able to protect itself. If you graduate from IV class, you should have well developed binural hearing and well developed motor skills in general. We know that the peripheral vision of older people is actually developed at 180 degrees, while in children it is 70 degrees. The obligation, in fact, to this training in the initial stage, in the initial education, is precisely that this motor skills should develop, the child should have the corresponding reflex and be able to be useful to himself and not endanger the other participants in the movement. In a word, at the end of the fourth grade these skills we must have developed them. This is also provided by the training programmes under the Safer Road Movement (R &amp; D) in the III and IV group of kindergartens and from I to IV grade. The training time on the safe movement of roads does not allow this training to develop in full within six hours. This means that in a month and a half of the 25-year-old children will be able to open their sensors in full, and that is actually impossible. It takes a little more training time. There is a contradiction between study time and study program. We have formulated this problem to explain how your employees resolve this. According to § 4 of the Law on Road Traffic, which I cited to you, the training under the Road Traffic Safety is in the system of secondary education, which means from I to XII grade. According to the Strategy of the Ministry for Safe Road Movement, 2011 " 2020," which I think is a good document and in which, if memory serves, you have a part in its composition. On page 1, page 1, 13 there is a training on safe road traffic, which is from V to XII grade. Further down, in the implementation of this Strategy, you, Mr Minister, as Secretary General, in fact, at the same time as an annex to Order No RD-09-773 of 19 September 2003 the Ministry of Education and Science defined training on the Safe traffic of the roads and from I to VIII only once in class and additional in classes ZIP and EPA, a total of 24 hours per class. In Ordinance No 13 of 21 September 2016 of the Ministry of Education and Science for civil, health, environmental and intercultural education, Table 5, para. Three...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u191	You're one minute behind schedule!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u192	... it is written that the training on safe road traffic will be only up to the 7th grade, and the classes will be only at the time of the classroom, i.e. they are also reduced. Dear Minister, at the moment there are two legal documents - an order and a table - both contrary to the Road Traffic Act § 4 - which I quote to you a third time - and the Strategy of the Ministry of Education. Your answer should give clarity to the questions of, teachers and principals..... what are we doing from September 15th? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u193	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Minister Valchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u194	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Letifov! The policy of the Ministry of Education and Science on road safety is first and foremost developed in the Strategy of the Ministry for the Implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria to improve road safety for the period 2011 - 2020. Our main priority is the training of children and students who are part of vulnerable road users. The law on pre-school and school education creates the necessary prerequisites for the implementation of this policy through general education, carried out in compulsory hours and by upgrading it in the elective hours of the school curriculum. In relation to the second question, I inform you that the safety of road traffic is laid down in a number of state educational standards. For example, in kindergartens, the safety of road traffic is included in the educational direction of the Surrounded World. The state educational standard for general education, the necessary competences of the students are given in the training of subjects such as the Surrounding World. The state educational standard for civil, health, environmental and intercultural education is in the framework requirements for organizing class hours with a minimum number of hours for road safety. The preparation and development of adequate behaviour of all road users is also being upgraded in the field of vocational education and training. In accordance with the Law on Vocational Education and Training, the Ministry of Education and Science develops and validates the necessary educational documentation. For support of teachers on the website of the Ministry was created the "Safe of road traffic" section, which publishes strategic documents related to the topic, training programmes on road safety for the stages of the basic educational degree, national initiatives related to road safety. The training material has been published in the section "In the aid of the class supervisor'. With regard to the third issue of synchronization of the regulations, I would like to inform you that, in our opinion to the Minister of Interior on the draft measures to improve traffic safety, we have stated our readiness to engage in updating the organisation and management system of activities related to the education and training of road safety. We have also proposed to develop a platform for information exchange, input and analysis of data collected from different ministries. In conclusion, it should be pointed out that there are no grounds to speak of a contradiction between the order you have cited and Decree No 13 of 2016 on civil, health, environmental and intercultural education. Hours of class are set for studying the safety of road traffic, which correspond to the number of hours in the order and meet the concept of covering the entire basic educational degree. Given that under the Preschool and School Education Act, primary education is already completed after the 7th grade, no such hours are foreseen in the 8th grade. However, Regulation No 13 allows for the integration of road safety themes into more general themes of rights and responsibilities, solidarity, security and tolerance. The examination of road safety through the prism of civil education is a prerequisite for more effective learning outcomes. In addition, what I'd like to say. Surely this work is one of the important activities. It is extremely important for children's lives and health; one of the many activities in the educational system, in the list of policies, programs and activities in the education system; one of the many tasks the education system is tasked with, and we must pay proper attention to it. What I should perhaps take on in this case, as a commitment to you, is together with the Ministry's political team to organise further discussions because, as you said, there is a misunderstanding, there is a contradiction. I myself will make the necessary, additional time to clarify these issues and to develop this policy. As for the desire to study more hours, you know that it is always difficult because the curriculum is limited as a volume. Each load with additional commitments implies to cancel other hours. However, given the importance of the subject, I am committed to having this debate with colleagues and representatives of the education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u195	Thank you, dear Minister. Two minutes for two supplementary questions you have the floor, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u196	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I am satisfied, especially what you said, that we will do the necessary consultations. You have our full support to pay enough attention to this so important subject. If you are sincere, it can be done, as you quoted, on the new amendments to the Preschool and School Education Act to make one module, and then in secondary school already, from the eighth grade, to have an subject. Either way, you in specialized schools such a subject for safe movement have, and it becomes official. I'll tell you another statistic. The injured children are over 100 each year, and the dead children, the victims are 35. That means a big class every year just disappears. These are grieving families, parents and relatives who actually lose their most valuable. I believe that this responsibility is extremely important. According to the information we have, there is actually no specialist on this subject in the Ministry to observe it and monitor its performance down the line in classes and classes separately. This to some extent shows the extent to which the object or attitude to this is, how to say, neglected to some extent. Of course, I have no doubt about your desire for professionalism and knowledge of matter. That's why I'm addressing you this way. The issue is extremely serious and with the new changes proposed by the Road Traffic Act, the driver's competence to acquire after 10th grade, I believe the task is becoming more and more complex. We'll rule out another group of people who won't be able to be trained. In fact, instead of narrowing down the circle of people who have not gone through such training and they are becoming dangerous to themselves and to other road users, we are expanding it. That's why I'm counting on your correctness. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. PRESENTER GAVEN: Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. In essence, there were no supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u197	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u198	Rather, this was an attitude, so it does not suggest a response from the Minister. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Anelia Klisarova on the conditions for receiving scholarships from students after completed primary education who are permanently disabled and/or without parents. You have the floor, Professor. Klisarova, develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u199	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! According to art. 4, para. 1 and para. 4 of Decree No. 33 of 15 February 2013 of the Council of Ministers These are the conditions for obtaining scholarships, scholarships are awarded for educational results and for students without parents. According to art. 7, para. 1 The student can apply for all types of monthly scholarships, but can only get by choice one. What is the connection between the scholarship for high success and the one for children with no parents or the one for children with permanent disabilities? Does the fact that a child is an excellent student make him less orphan or is it an excellent success that cures permanent disability? In this regard, my question is: does the Minister and the Ministry of Education and Science consider proposing changes to Decree No 33 of 2013 to the Council of Ministers so that children without parents and/or with permanent disabilities who have shown excellent success are entitled to receive more than one scholarship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u200	Thank you, Professor. Klisarova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u201	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Klisarova! Student scholarships are aimed at three goals. One is to stimulate achievements, success rates. These are scholarships associated with higher success, which are provided on the basis of higher success. The other goal is to help access. These are income-related scholarships. These are targeted scholarships aimed at supporting the payment of dorms, transport expenses to students and aim to assist students in their detention at school, for their maintenance during the training. And the third goal, which to some extent overlaps with the second, but is not mandatory, is to compensate certain groups of students for being either livingly underprivileged or being, maybe I can't find the right word, these are students with one parent, these are children, students with disabilities. In them, the advantage is that there are no such additional conditions. Here, of course, it is a question of justice, which is always a discussion, I would even say a philosophical concept of what is fairer than the other. But at the same amount of money, if we allow one student to receive on all three grounds, we will limit the number of students receiving a scholarship. I'm not saying that's not fair, it depends on how we look at it. In any case, in Order No 33 adopted in 2013, and in the previous decree, which it replaced, it was set on this concept not to accumulate the scholarships. Of course, it is good for us to increase scholarship funds. It is good to stimulate success regardless of other criteria. But this is a matter of further policy development, accompanied by opportunities for an increase in scholarship funds. In fact, this Order of 2013 made a significant increase, with scholarships regulated according to educational results. Where there are higher results in these schools, they get more scholarship funds. The other thing that was done is to receive more funds for scholarships professional high schools who train in technical, agrarian professional directions that are important for the labour market. Schools were given the opportunity to set a higher amount of money than the one they used to be. So on this line they help to get a higher amount of scholarship and determine for some students a higher amount of scholarship. As of the upcoming 2017/2018 school year, we are expanding with one class because of the new educational structure, the number of eligible students. Scholarships are received after graduating from primary education, that is, students of the eighth grade will now be able to receive scholarships. It has been since the eighth grade, which is also related to additional appropriations. The additional resource for the 2018 budget will be aimed at securing this. Of course, it is good to have the opportunity to further expand the number of entitled ones. Each minister has very good intentions, but with an annual budget can realize some of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u202	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor. Klisarova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I mean, according to art. 11, para. 1 the amount of monthly scholarships is determined from 21 to 50 BGN. monthly. If these children with permanent disabilities or full orphans, without any parent showing excellent success, I do not think that the budget of the state will be so burdened that this can not be realized. Our task is to create conditions for precisely inclusive training, especially for children with permanent disabilities to have access, to go to school, and if they show excellent success, to find some more money, to stimulate them. Of course, in the ministerial decree it may not be to receive the full amount of the scholarship as a winner, but to think about some size.. half of one scholarship.. the one for excellent success, which is also only nine months, it is not 12 months, so to pay particular attention to these children in a disadvantaged situation, to children who really want to be at school and show excellent results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u204	Thank you, dear Professor. Klisarova. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go. [[To Minister Krasimir Valchev.]] You're not gonna make a doppelganger. We are moving on to a question from MP Dora Yankova about the future of the school in the village of Kasaka in Dospat municipality. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Valchev! My question is about the future of the school in the village of Kasaka, Dospat municipality. For information, Minister, the village of Kasaka is the only village in Dospat municipality with natural population growth. It's a living village. On my visit to the municipality and to the village and parents and students want to have good conditions for educational and educational process. Why do I say good? Children are currently studying in four classrooms on two shifts. Mothers work in workshops where there is a livelihood, fathers are abroad and thank God, this is one of the villages where the population is kept and there are young people. In a conversation with the mayor of the municipality, he said that he had taken over the municipality in a poor financial situation. He's excited about the school being supported and developed, but he lacks the means. During this period of his term of office there is a project and has even reached a construction permit. My question to you is about the school in Kasaka to be supported. What are the possibilities of your ministry being built, perhaps four classrooms, or what the mayor has done? You know that Rhodopes in soul and character are, first, to educate themselves, to educate children, and education in Smolyan schools is at a good level. That is the question of my constituents, I hand it over to you and expect an answer from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u206	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Minister Valchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u207	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, thank you for the question and for your commitment. Today, when in a number of settlements we have school buildings that are not used, that we have a natural population growth and a shortage of school rooms in a village can only make us happy and make us more involved in providing opportunities for solving the problem. Yes, we have many needs in the educational system related to the material base. When these needs are related to the inability to conduct the learning process, we have always looked at priority. The initially planned funds under the budget of the Ministry of Education are few. They are just over two and a half million for nearly 350 secondary officers with a budget, without higher schools and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. They do not allow all capital expenditure needs to be met even in the Ministry's system, as a senior officer, but even less in the whole system of municipal education. However, the Ministry, when there was a chance of leftovers, or at all when the state budget had the opportunity, provided additional funds for building even new schools. In recent years, several entirely new school buildings have been opened with the help of the state budget. It's even more for kindergartens. We will look for such an opportunity. I had a conversation with the mayor of the municipality, I expect from him an investment project, detailed quantitative-value accounts to give us information about the necessary funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u208	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Yankova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u209	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I know you're thrifty about promises, but when you make an announcement for a future decision, that means we'll have a chance to rebuild the school. In the Rhodopes, in a living village to build four more rooms, I think it is an investment in the Rhodope children, in the future of Bulgaria because the children from the village of Kasaka deserve to be in modern schools. I want to inform you that only in preschool will now be 34 children, which is good news. Along with this, this summer they have wonderful initiatives, organize libraries in the open, seek their education and have their love for the educational process. Since education is a priority in the Programme or in the priorities of the government, my request is to do everything possible in a conversation and dialogue that you are doing in the Council of Ministers itself, to find the necessary funds and to actually give these funds to this school to be modernised. I expect you to do so and I trust that this will be a really good investment of the Bulgarian government for the children in the Rhodopes, for the Bulgarian children.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u210	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. I hope there are more settlements like Castle. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Veska Nencheva on the terms and conditions of additional funding of the kindergartens and schools. You have the floor, dear Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u211	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! By Decree No 128 of the Council of Ministers of 29 June 2017, the Council of Ministers adopted the criteria for inclusion in the list of kindergartens and schools. § 2 of the Final Provisions repeals Decree No 84 of the Council of Ministers of 6 April 2009 on the adoption of a list of metropolitan schools in the Republic of Bulgaria, the definition of criteria for inclusion in the list of metropolitan schools and the adoption of financial rules for spending funds on additional funding, to ensure the training of traveling students from the metropolitan schools. Order No 128 of the Council of Ministers defines only the criteria for inclusion in the list of kindergartens and schools. It does not provide for additional funding provided so far, according to art. 3, para. Order No 84 of the Council of Ministers for the full-time organisation of the school day and for the dining room for the students from first to eighth grade in the amount of BGN 544. for a child for the budget year. In accordance with art. 5, para. 3 of Decree No 128 of the Council of Ministers by order of the Director of kindergarten or school, or the mayor of the municipality shall be appointed persons to accompany children and students from first to fourth grade during transport. However, the Decree does not specify any requirements for the escorts of traveling children and students, nor does the order and rules under which their work will be paid. After disturbing conversations with principals of schools, teachers and parents including, please answer me: is the additional funding for the metropolitan schools envisaged by the Council of Ministers' Decree No 84 of 6 April 2009 been dropped? How will the activities of district schools arising from their specific functions be financially provided? How will the safety of children be ensured on daily journeys? How and by whom will the work of the children's attendants be paid, and with what means will this be done?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u212	Thank you, dear Ms. Nencheva. Minister Valchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u213	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Nencheva! Yes, it is, with the repealed Order No 84 of 2009 the financial rules for spending the funds for additional funding to ensure the training of traveling students were also laid down. With the entry into force of the Pre-school and School Education Act, funding and the status of the metropolitan schools were settled at the legal level, which is why their regulation in a separate act of the Council of Ministers was not required. The Law provides for the Council of Ministers to adopt only a list of middle schools and kindergartens, and the criteria for their inclusion in this list. In accordance with the above, Order No 128 of 2017 was also adopted. The funding of the full-time organization and free transport of the district schools is preserved and settled permanently in the Law. The entry into force of the full-time organisation from the first to the seventh grade has been introduced for all schools, with the need for a fixed provision for funding the full-time organisation to the district schools. For 2017 the regulations for the full-time organization of the school day for the students covered from the first to the seventh grade are BGN 580. It was established by Decision No 920 of the Council of Ministers of 2016 amending Decision No 304 on the adoption of standards for delegation by the State activities There is no change in how to provide the funds from the state budget for free transport of traveling students from the settlements in the municipality or to neighbouring municipalities where there is no school. The terms and conditions for free transport are laid down by a decree adopted by Decree No 153 of the Council of Ministers of 2015. A positive step towards improving access to education was introduced by the Preschool and School Education Act, extending the right to free transport for high school students after the age of 16 years. The free transports of children and students shall be organised by the municipality at the location of the school or kindergarten or by schools and kindergartens when they are delegated this right. The free means of transport for children and students may also incur staff costs, including accompanying persons. For most of the cases, such an organisation has already been established as escorts of traveling children and students are not external to the school, and this activity is required to be assigned to staff members within their working hours. The current arrangement in Order No 84, which we referred to, was because the funding of the full-time organization started only in the middle schools, and this measure was subsequently distributed to all students until the seventh grade in all schools. This is one of the measures to which the most budget funding has been added. In 2009, the full - time organization was financed by only 38,000 students from the metropolitan schools for nearly 17 million, and in 2017, we financed the full - time organization of nearly 230 thousand students for nearly 130 million in all schools, thus erasing this difference between metropolitan and other schools. When the cost standards are updated, we also update the regulations for a full - time organization, and given that the main part of the funds in it are for the reward of the counselor. Now all the regulations and standards have been legally put together in this decision of the Council of Ministers, setting the standards for the activities delegated by the state, so the funding of the metropolitan schools for the full-time organisation of the school day continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u214	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Nencheva for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u215	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! I will pass on this answer, it is quite reassuring about funding the activities for middle schools and kindergartens. However, the question of the children's travel attendants remains unclear, as at this point the accompanying teachers are usually the teachers who teach at this school. You yourselves understand that this activity takes place outside of their working hours, that is to say, or in most cases, they should leave an hour before school starts to accompany the students, and then an hour after school is finished. That's quite disturbing, because it's an extra load for teachers. There must be clarity in some legal provisions for this whole procedure. Now I'm going to take advantage of my right to an additional question. A month ago, we asked a question that was related to the Ordinance on Inclusive Education. Then you promised us in this room that there would be a new one by the end of July. What is your answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u216	Thank you, dear Ms. Nencheva. The line should be on the other thing, but if you're ready, answer one more. Here you are, Minister Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u217	With regard to chaperones, it is best to be teachers, pedagogical specialists, because they are responsible for children, working with these children on a daily basis, knowing them. This implies additional load and it is very often associated with the relevant educators. In winter, given the requirements to travel in the bright part of the day, and not only in the winter part and in the autumn months, travels earlier, so this is not always associated with additional load. Sometimes these teachers also travel, and perhaps we should check how this is arranged in various district schools to see if this is not about extra pay. With regard to the Ordinance on Inclusive Education, I checked today how far it has come, we have a draft regulation ready. The colleagues worked intensively last month, so I hope that by August 1st we will be able to upload it to the website for public discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u218	Thank you, dear Minister. The last question to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will be asked by the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov about physical aggression and Nazi greetings from a student to a teacher. You have the floor, dear Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u219	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Colleagues! Mr. Minister, my question is about physical aggression and Nazi greetings from a student to a teacher. On June 20, Mrs. Nikolova, who is a teacher of Ethica and Law at Sofia's professional high school of tourism, was attacked and brutally hit by 16-year-old Martin in the teacher's room in front of her colleagues. According to the school director, Mrs. Joneva in a statement to the media, a few days before the incident itself, Martin was a little restless, then she ordered a meeting with the pedagogical advisor. I did some research on what happened, and I established the following circumstances. Four or five days before the attack, the student exhibits aggression, kicks the coffee machine in the hallway of the school, shouts and raging as a sign of disagreement with his poor assessment. More than that, the school's school teacher is on the verge of beating up the school's attending teacher. After having a meeting and a conversation with the pedagogical advisor, it was found that he was well and sent him practically on cooking. Days later, during a conversation with Martin, one of his parents, the teacher and the pedagogical advisor, he again exhibits extreme aggression, runs away from the meeting, yelling, "I'm going to kill everyone, starts hitting on the walls of the school, smashing a partition wall and slitting his hand. Then she breaks into the classroom and sees Mrs. Nikolova, hits her hard with her foot, screaming at her ear: He grabs a chair and reaches for it again. Hits Mrs. Nikolova's leg, as well as another teacher's head, screaming, "I don't want to be tolerant! After the appearance of the district inspector, Martin was restrained, but before being handcuffed, leaving the Teacher's Room, he saluted with his hand Two days later, a Pedagogical Council was held to determine Martin's punishment in the presence of Deputy Minister Tanya Mihailova and Head of the Regional Management of Education sofia-city Mrs. Vanya Kastreva. In this regard, my questions to you, Minister, are the following: what actions were taken by the Ministry of Education to prevent the occurrence of other such cases, and what punishment was imposed on the student? Has the Minister been informed about other problematic students with the same focus and are statistics on similar events at school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u220	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. Minister Valchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u221	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ibryamov, unfortunately the accident is a fact. What you've exposed, too. The reason for the incident with the Bogomolika Nikolova teacher at the Sofia professional high school of tourism is the low assessment of the student Marin Tsanov's ethics and law. Pre-trial proceedings have been initiated for the action. The next day after the incident, as you mentioned, Ms. Tanya Mihaylova and Mrs. Maria Semerdjieva, advisor to the Minister of Education and Science, visited the high school in order to support Ms. Nikolova, the school management and the pedagogical specialists. Talks have been made with the class leader, the injured teacher, the pedagogical advisor and measures have been identified to address the crisis situation. On 22 June an extraordinary Pedagogical Council was held, attended by Deputy Minister Tanya Mihaylova and Mrs. Kastreva, Head of the Regional Educational Administration, Sofia-City. On the agenda it was necessary to consider a procedure for imposing a sanction on the student Marin Tsanov, but he was not present. Since there was no parent present, there was no authorised person to represent him despite the invitation sent, no sanction decision was taken. On 30 June 2017, a Pedagogical Council was held again, which examined the procedure for imposing a sanction on Marin Tsanov. The parents refused to attend, but they authorized Mrs. Elena Petkova, a class leader of the student, to represent him. Mrs. Petkova has stated that they do not approve of their son's actions and do not approve of aggression against teachers and students. Marin Tsanov has been charged a transfer to another school from the following school year on the basis of art. 49, para. 1, t. 4 of the Ordinance on Inclusive Education. The Sanction has been unanimously adopted by the Council. If necessary, the Ministry of Education and Science provides psychological support to schools and kindergartens to deal with aggression. Since June 23rd she has been at the disposal of the high school Mrs. Valkova a psychologist-specialist from the Mobile Support Group for the Regional Management Sofia-City. She's had meetings with the teachers and students of He class. Psychological support was provided during the meeting. For rapid information and response by the Ministry by order is defined the order, manner, timing and responsible officials of the school and the Regional Management of Education for notification of accidents, accidents and accidents with students, pedagogical specialists or non-pedagogical staff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u222	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Ibryamov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u223	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I kind of agree with what you said, but it's a fact that there's been aggression. The fact is that students who beat teachers have been reported periodically lately. If, until 30 years ago and more, there were cases of teachers beating up students, now it's the opposite. Do your job or send a team to check out the school itself this is a professional high school of tourism under the hat of the Ministry of Education. There are at least six broken cross swastikas depicting Hitlerism. That's a very disturbing fact! The other thing that's very important. I'll open another curtain. As early as 2016, the school knew about these manifestations of the student that he was a member of the skinhead organizations and did not hide it. On a presentation given to him to show his tolerance and attitude towards differences, do you know what he said? That he doesn't want to be tolerant. His own presentation contained Hitlerist elements, that he approved the concentration camps, approved the ghettos for the gypsies, so he expressed himself, and approved certain actions of politicians. I ask this question for a reason because these things, repeating themselves, show an alarming fact: that at the moment not only teachers, Bulgarian citizens feel unprotected. A student can't beat a teacher and we can only rely on the regulation for inclusive education. Change the regulations if you have to! It's not gonna do any good. Before I close my line, I will remind you of a very tragic case since 2004 in Veliko Tarnovo, where a student of a child killed his parents with a book "Mein Kampf" that is to say, "My struggle" by Hitler. Let's not be witnesses, God forbid, let's say goodbye to someone else. Mr. Minister, impose all the strictness of the law and I am sure that then the parents of such kind of students will take into account their behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u224	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. Would you like to use the backrest, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u225	Thank you. Listening to your words, I understand that this is not just about aggression, which is a projection of many factors in the school and public environment, but also about the fascination with ideologies and behavior that are condemned. Perhaps it is a matter of further talks with us, taking action on how schools should react as quickly as possible to identified such events... something for which we will try to further instruct them. That's all I can think of right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-28.u226	Thank you, dear Minister. This was the last issue of today's parliamentary control, which also concludes the parliamentary session. If a commission decides to work, of course, it can work on Monday 31 July is still such a day. I thank all Members of the National Assembly not only those who are now here, all participants from the Council of Ministers who participated in this session, the administration that provides our work, the representatives of the media! Before closing the meeting and announcing the next, about the shorthand, the questions that were asked by the MPs Mr. Chenchev and Mr. Kostadinov in the way led, I presented a reference to the room of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. The next meeting is on 1 September 2017 at 9.00. We will continue with declarations of parliamentary groups, debate on questions and parliamentary control. I wish you a pleasant rest and fruitful work in the constituencies! We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
