ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u1	Dear MPs, good afternoon! Please register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. On the day yesterday, we started: THE SECOND VOICE OF A GENERAL LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE CIVIL CODEX. The name of the Law was voted, the proposals to it were reported § 1, the debate was opened, there were requests at the end of the working day for speeches. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to renew their volitions for participation in the debate. Hey, guys. Anybody up for it? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Tasco Ermenkov, the Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 125 MPs: 16, against 66, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for an unsupported proposal by Mr. Kamen Kostadinov. They voted 114 MPs: for 7, against 60, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support it. They voted 125 MPs: 15 against 65, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. A proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova, which seems to me to be entirely identical to Mr. Yavor Haytov's proposal. In fact, it is identical in content and is not supported by the Commission. They voted 126 MPs: 12, against 43, abstention 71. The proposals of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Yavor Haytov have not been accepted. We have two supported proposals. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for § 1 in the version of the Commission's report. Vote 124 MPs: 118, against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Proposal of the National Representative Petar Slavov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the substation in the version until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the . (8) For the benefit of legal persons or sole traders, remuneration shall also be awarded to the court if they have been protected by a legal counsel. The amount of the remuneration awarded may not exceed the maximum amount for the type of case in question determined by the order of art. 37 of the Law on Legal Aid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u3	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Slavov, after him Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We come to one of the most important texts in this Bill, and I will allow myself, in a nutshell, to say a few things. We have commented for a long time in the Committee on Legal Affairs, mainly on colleagues who have not been there and have not followed the debate, but I use to thank all colleagues from the Legal Commission who have spent this time and I think we have written a good text to protect consumers from some extremely unpleasant abuses of companies with monopoly situations. This bad and harmful practice has become widely known in society as a fee for the Council, as I think the Ombudsman called it. What we have done here is, above all, to put an upper limit on the possibility to award a certain type of costs in a court case in such a company. Colleagues, it turns out that many of these companies abuse a claim in a given case in the order of BGN 50-60. they charge fees from the order of 300 and more BGN. You yourselves understand that this is both bordering on absurdity, and it is both extremely unfair and unfair to debtors who very often do not participate in these proceedings when they are elderly people or people who cannot provide the necessary legal protection and thus have no opportunity to object to the excessiveness of such an objection, and it is then awarded. So what we have done with our colleagues from the Legal Committee, first of all, to say that the court will rule on the amount of remuneration, will have the right to discretion, and not simply respect the claim of the plaintiff to respect a certain financial claim. We have said, as I have already noted, that there will also be an upper limit to this remuneration at these costs for legal counsel, and this will be the amount set out in the Law on Legal Aid. First of all, we hope to stop such untrue practices in this way, some companies which abuse their monopoly and thus are effectively unduly enriched at the expense of their customers, receiving sums within these legal proceedings, far, far beyond the obligation of the person concerned, and amounts which do not correspond at all to their costs in such proceedings, as should be within the meaning of the whole art. 78. So really, I ask you colleagues, let us be firm and let us be firm as I think we almost unanimously supported this text, supported it in a room, and it really helps many consumers, many Bulgarian citizens who are being dumped by the monopolies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u5	Any lines to Mr. Slavov? I won't. The word is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, as you have found out from the previous colleague Petar Slavov, this is about I will be a little more extreme, about illegal enrichment by the monopolies in the form of legal consult remuneration. That's what this is about. And I took the floor, as there is preliminary information, to the great regret that there is once again an intervention of a monopoly who wishes this text to be dropped. The Monopoly player is "Topplofication" Sofia, as was the case in the changes in the Energy Act, and thanks to this intervention important texts have fallen away that ruin Bulgarian citizens with regard to the so-called building installation. So I take the floor in advance to explain to you that this text is fair, this text is balanced because the practice pointed out that for claims of 20 BGN. are charged legal fees in the amount of 300 BGN, i.e. the subscriber owes 20 BGN and should pay 300 BGN. It's a legal consult's reward. At the moment, the text has clarified that remuneration cannot exceed the amount of the obligation, as this is the fair one. Even if you do not know, there are many more serious texts tabled regarding the legal advisory fees, because a large part of the so-called "jurist consultants" are actually working on employment contracts and their remuneration is included in the cost of the sold service, goods and so on. That is, in this situation, it cannot be claimed at all for any legal advisory remuneration when it is included in the cost. So I hope that this time the Bulgarian Parliament will respond responsibly and support the text which the Legal Commission has drawn up, because, again, it is fair and balanced. And finally, really give God, this information that I have is not true, not to be confirmed, and this can only be proved by the vote that lies ahead of this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? I won't either. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 with its respective content, in accordance with the report on the same. Please vote. We are voting § 2 on the Commission report. 135 MPs voted: 135, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u8	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 2 which becomes § 3. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 3, which becomes § 4. A proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs will be The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the National Assembly Anna Alexandrova § 4 is out of the question. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Yavor Haytov, § 4 is dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal by the people represented Kamen Kostadinov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 405 the following "1." In para. 3 the words "Sofia City Court" shall be replaced by the Court of Justice in the region of which is the permanent address or seat of the debtor. 2. A new para is being created. 5. The Court of Justice shall refuse to issue an executive sheet on the basis of minor documents within the meaning of art. 47, para. 2 of the International Commercial Arbitration Solutions Act. 3. Previously on AMC's... 5 and 6 become respectively. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u9	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote proposals by the MPs Chavdar Georgiev, Anna Alexandrova, Yavor Haytov, who are not supported by the Commission. Please vote. We are voting for unsupported proposals from MPs. They voted 112 MPs: 10, against 22, abstention 80. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 111 MPs: 102, against 5, abstention 4. Paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u10	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... (1) The pending proceedings under Chapter Twenty-Second shall be dealt with in accordance with this Law. (2) The arbitration proceedings initiated until the entry into force of this Act shall be concluded in the order before this date, with the exception of the proceedings of non-arbitrable disputes which shall be terminated.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u11	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall submit the text of the importer for the name of the division of the Member State of transit and final provisions, as well as § 5 by importer, which shall become § 6 in the Commission report, following its support and editing. Please vote. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The term "Transitional and Final Provisions" and § 6 of the Commission report are unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u12	Paragraph 6. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 6 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 6, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u13	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 6, reflected in its systematic position in a new § 6, para. 2. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal to reject § 6 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u14	Proposal of the National Representative Kamen Kostadinov: In the Consumer Protection Act in art. 30 is created. 4. . (4) Any clause in a contract concluded between a trader and a consumer with which the parties award an out-of-court dispute between them, outside the alternative dispute settlement procedure within the meaning of this law, shall be null and void unless this is agreed between the parties individually. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, completely identical with the proposals of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova and the National Representative Yavor Haytov § 7 drop out. The Commission does not support these three identical proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In the Consumer Protection Act in art. 3 is created para. 4. . (4) Any clause in a contract concluded between a trader and a consumer with which the parties award an arbitration court settlement of a dispute between them, outside the alternative dispute settlement procedure within the meaning of this law, shall be null and void.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u15	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Kamen Kostadinov, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 118 MPs: 10, against 52, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote identical and unsupported proposals by the Commission by the MPs Mihail Mikov, Anna Alexandrova and Yavor Haytov. Please vote. They voted 99 MPs: for 6, against 18, abstention 75. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the text adopted in principle by the importer by the Commission and edited by the same for § 7 in its report. We are voting § 7 on the Commission report. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 7 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u16	According to § 8 there is a proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev. On the basis of art. 81, para. The 2rd sentence of the Rules of Procedure has not been discussed and voted on. Proposal of the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Kamen Kostadinov. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1, 4 and 5 and does not support it by t. 2 and 6, on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules of Procedure. 3 has not been discussed and voted on. Now I'm going to read the unsupported t. Two and six. Point 2: "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 11th para is . (3) As an arbitrator in a permanent arbitration institution, a competent adult may be entered, who has not been convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature and has a higher education. And point 6: It's six. The transitional and final provisions of the International Commercial Arbitration Act shall make the following additions: (a) In § 3 para. 2 is amended as follows: supposed arbitration institutions shall be registered in a register led by the Ministry of Justice. (b) Paragraph 3a shall be inserted: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The Presidents of Permanent Arbitration Institutions shall submit to the Minister of Justice an application for entry in the (2) The following documents shall apply to the application: 1. Rules on the organisation and activities of the permanent arbitration institution; 2. the statutes of the permanent arbitration institution; 3. a tariff for the arbitration fees and expenses of the permanent arbitration institution; 4. a list of arbitrators and mediators at the permanent arbitration institution. (3) The Minister of Justice shall, within 3 months of the entry into force of this Act, issue rules on the structure and order of the work and the keeping of the register under para. 1. (4) The stated circumstances under para. 2 shall be entered immediately. (5) The Minister of Justice shall refuse the entry under para. 1 by reasoned decision if the arbitrators in the list do not meet the requirements of art. 11, para. 3 or the documents under para. are not presented. 2. There is a silent refusal to enter if it is not made within 14 days of the date of its application. (6) Refusal of entry shall be subject to challenge within 14 days under the Administrative Procedure Code. (7) Changes in the documents under para. 2. (8) The register shall be public and anyone may request a reference or extract from its contents on the information to be notified. (9) Permanent arbitration institutions may operate after the date of their entry into the register led by the Ministry of Justice. (10) The permanent arbitration institutions existing at the date of entry into force of this Act shall continue their activities and shall be obliged, within 12 months from the date of entry into force of this Act, to bring their activities into line with it. A proposal from MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 3 and does not support it by t. 2, 4 and 6, and times t. 1 and 5 offers are withdrawn. That is why I present to your attention the proposal on this point. 2, which is not supported: "2." t uc 2: (a) t. Two o'clock is out. (b) in the case of failure to take the proposal under the previous point 2, it: in the content of the created para. 3 the number sssxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Point 4 - also unsupported: "4." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) B. I'm going after the words "al." The text to the end of the sentence shall be deleted. (b) B. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. - the introductory sentence is amended to: The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the - in the created al. The second sentence is added: "Sequence may be claimed through a claim or an appeal.' - the creation of para. 3... is Point 6, which is also not supported: It's six. c. 7... is Proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 3 concerning the removal of t. 6 and does not support it by t. 1, 2 et seq. 3 concerning the removal of t. 3, 4, 5 and 7. Proposal from MP Yavor Haytov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 3 concerning the removal of t. 6 and does not support it by t. 1, 2 and so on the dropping of t. 3, 4, 5 and 7. Proposal by the National Representative Svilen Ivanov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In the Law on International Commercial Arbitration (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 3 after the word "supplier', a written response, a submission of evidence, a counterclaim or an appearance in an arbitration panel shall be added. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 11th para is . (3) An arbiter may be a disabled adult who is not convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature, has a higher education, at least 8 years of professional experience and has high moral qualities. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) A new para shall be created. 2: (2) Each Party shall be given the opportunity to verify the case and remotely, including through the arbitration panel's website. (b) the current para. 2 becomes para. 3. 4. Article 6 is inserted in Chapter 6. 46a: Art. 46a. Each arbitration court shall keep records in which the closed cases are kept for 10 years from the closure of the proceedings. Upon expiry of that period, only the decisions and the reasons for them shall be kept, as well as the commitments entered into. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) a) Previous text becomes para. 1 and in it t. 3 is repealed; (b) the creation of para. 2: 2 The arbitration decisions given in disputes to which the subject matter is not to be resolved by arbitration shall be null and void. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49 words.............................................................................. 47, p. 1, 2 and 3 and shall be replaced by the following: 47, para. 1, t. 1 and 2................................................................................................. 47, p. 4, 5 and 6 and shall be replaced 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51, para. 1 the words "Sofia City Court" shall be replaced by "The Court of Justice," in the area of which is the permanent address or seat of the debtor. " 8. Chapter 8 is created with art. 52-54: "Chapter 8" "Administrative Criminal Responsibility" Art. 52. (1) The Minister of Justice shall exercise control over compliance with this law by arbitration courts and by arbitrators through the Inspectorate to the Minister of Justice under the Law on the Judiciary. (2) The control shall be exercised by means of an inspection which shall be ordered by the Minister of Justice on his own initiative or on the occasion of an alert or complaint of the person concerned. The order shall specify the arbitration panel, the arbitrators subject to control, the inspectors subject to the control, the time limit for carrying out the verification and the period covering the verification, as well as other circumstances. (3) The President of the arbitration panel shall ensure free access to the service premises and to the service archives for the inspection appointed by the Minister of Justice. (4) Minutes shall be drawn up for the findings of the verification. (5) The Minister of Justice may issue binding instructions to the arbitration tribunal and arbitrators with a period of time to remedy the detected infringements of the provisions of that law. Art. 53 (1) An Arbitrator who gives a ruling on a dispute in which one of the parties is a consumer within the meaning of § 13, item 13. 1 of the additional provisions of the Law on Consumer Protection is punished with a fine from 500 to 2500 BGN. A legal person who committed the infringement referred to in the first sentence shall be subject to a penalty of 5000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement, the fine or penalty payment shall be three times the amount. (3) Arbitrator or legal person who does not comply with the mandatory instructions under art. 52, para. 5 shall be punished with a fine or a penalty of 2500 BGN. Art. (1) The act establishing an administrative infringement under art. 54 (1) The act establishing an administrative infringement under art. 53 shall be composed by the inspectors referred to in Article 53. 52, para. 2 and the criminal order is issued by the Minister of Justice. (2) The acts for the identification of infringements shall be drawn up and the penal decrees shall be issued, appealed and implemented under the terms and conditions of the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u17	Before I give you the floor for speeches, honourable Members, let me introduce you to the unsupported part in the absolutely identical proposals of the MP Anna Alexandrova and Yavor Haytov: "1." point 1 is deleted; 2. point 2 is amended as follows: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 11th para . (3) As an arbitrator, a competent adult citizen who has not been convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature may be registered as an arbitrator having a higher legal education and at least two years of legal service. 3. Points 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 are replaced by the following: You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I put to the vote a proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Kamen Kostadinov in the part not supported by the Commission, which is that part. Two and six. Please vote on the unsupported part of the proposal. Vote 112 MPs: 5 against 44, abstention 63. The proposals referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 shall be made on the basis of the proposals referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 of this Article. 2 and 6 of Kamen Kostadinov's proposal were not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Chavdar Georgiev in the part not supported by the Commission, namely in this regard. 2, 4 and 6. Please vote. They voted 110 MPs: for 7, against 41, abstention 62. The proposals of the Parliamentary Representative Chavdar Georgiev under the heading 2, 4 and 6 are not accepted. We vote on the proposals of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Yavor Haytov absolutely identical. We are voting on their unsupported part of the Commission on this. 1, 2 and 3. Please vote. They voted 107 MPs: 9 against 15 abstentions 83. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer by the Commission and edited by the same for § 8. We are voting § 8 on the Commission report. Vote 114 MPs: for 113, against no, abstention 1. Paragraph 8 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u18	Under § 9 there is a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with Article 9. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure until 4 November 2016 suppose § 9 to be rejected. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes that § 9 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u19	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 9 by importer. Please vote. They voted 104 MPs: 103, against 1, no abstentions. The Commission's proposal to reject § 9 by importer has been accepted and thus the Second Voting Act. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LEGISLATION FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT CHANGED TO THE CONFIGURATION OF THE INTERNATIONAL INVESITION BANK AND HER STATUS. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 31 November 2016. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Will any of the Committee on Budget and Finance come out to read the report? Otherwise, I'll have to introduce him myself. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on the ratification of Protocols amending the Agreement establishing the International Investment Bank and its Statute, No 602-02-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 November 2016. At a regular meeting held on 24 November 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of Protocols amending the Agreement on the Foundation of the International Investment Bank and its Statute, No 602-02-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 November 2016. The bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The International Investment Bank is an international financial institution, founded in 1970 in the city. Moscow. Its activities shall be carried out under the Founding Agreement registered on 10 July 1970 at the UN Secretariat and its Statute. The member states of the bank are Bulgaria, Vietnam, Cuba, Mongolia, Romania, Russia, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. On 20 December 1990, a Protocol of the Board of the Bank amended the Agreement establishing the International Investment Bank and its Statute, which has been provisionally put into effect since 1 January 1991 and has not been ratified in accordance with the legislation of our country in force at that time. In 2013, revised and revised projects of the founding documents of the International Investment Bank were drawn up. The amendments to the instruments of incorporation of the International Investment Bank are fully consistent with the basic principles and organisational practices of the structure and operation of international financial institutions and concern the following essential issues: the introduction of a proportional voting distribution system based on the share of each Member State in the bank's paid-up capital and a new decision-making order [[unanimously on key issues and on other issues with a qualified majority of 3/4, and an additional condition for supporting decisions by a simple majority of the members present at the meeting regardless of the amount of their votes]] ; a three-step corporate governance system through the establishment of a board of directors entrusted with the operational management of the bank. There is also an increase in the subscribed statutory capital of the bank to 2 billion. EUR (currently it is 1.3 billion) (EUR) by increasing the amount of the part not allocated between Member States, i.e. without making financial commitments and effective payment. This aims to attract new shareholders in the future and to satisfy the potential wishes of the member states to increase their shareholding. It is envisaged that the part of the allowances allocated between Member States to be converted into capital on request. The Annex to the Protocol, signed on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on 8 May 2014, is an integral part of it and constitutes a new version of the text of the Agreement establishing the International Investment Bank together with information on the amount of subscribed statutory capital and the allocation of quotas between the members of the Bank, presented in Annex No 1 to the new version of the Agreement, and the new version of the Statute of the International Investment Bank, representing Annex No 2 to the new version of the Agreement. Protocols amending the Agreement establishing the International Investment Bank and its Statute shall be subject to ratification by the National Assembly by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 2, 4, 5, 7 and 8 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the presentation and discussion of the Bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 16 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft for ratification of Protocols amending the Agreement on the Foundation of the International Investment Bank and its Statute, No 602-02-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. The next report belongs to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Which of the Committee on Legal Affairs will present it? Mrs. Alexandrova, come in. As compensation for your unaccepted PPC texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of Protocols amending the Agreement on the basis of the International Investment Bank and its Statute, No 602-02-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 November 2016. At its meeting held on 23 November 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of Protocols amending the Agreement on the basis of the International Investment Bank and its Statute, No 602-02-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 November 2016. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Finance Mr. Feyzi Bekir "Deputy Minister, Mrs. Rositsa Dimitrova and Mr. Momchil Rusev " State experts at the International Financial Institutions and Cooperation Directorate. The bill was presented by Mr. Fezi Bekir, who pointed out that the Council of Ministers proposed to the National Assembly to ratify a Protocol amending the Agreement on the Foundation of the International Investment Bank and its Statute of 1990, as well as a Protocol on the amendments to the Agreement and the Annex thereto signed by Bulgaria in May 2014. The proposed changes in the founding documents of the Bank shall aim to update them in accordance with the current practice of functioning and organisation of international development banks. The organisational proposals include the introduction of a proportional voting distribution system, as well as a three-tier corporate governance system by setting up a Board of Directors entrusted with the operational management of the Bank. An increase of subscribed statutory capital to 2 billion is also proposed. EUR by increasing the amount of undistributed part of the Member States, with no financial commitments and no effective payment, which will provide the opportunity to attract new shareholders. The agreement shall be subject to ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 2, 4, 5, 7 and 8 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the vote was taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for ratification of Protocols amending the Agreement on the basis of the International Investment Bank and its Statute, No 602-02-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. The next report belongs to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Mrs. Grozdanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u24	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of Protocols amending the Agreement establishing the International Investment Bank and its Statute, No 602-02-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 November 2016. At a regular meeting held on 23 November 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The reasons under the Bill were presented by Feizy Bekir (Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Finance) as follows: The Republic of Bulgaria has been a member of the International Investment Bank (IMB) since its establishment. The Bank's activities are carried out under the Agreement establishing the International Investment Bank and its Statute, registered on 10 July 1970 at the UN Secretariat. The member states of the Bank are Bulgaria, Vietnam, Cuba, Mongolia, Hungary, Romania, Russia, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. On 20 December 1990, a Protocol of the Council of the Bank amended the Agreement establishing the International Investment Bank and its Statute. With the amendments the ECU replaces the transfer ruble as the Bank's operating currency, update the Bank's objectives and terminology is brought into line with the then requirements. The Protocol has been provisionally put into effect since 1 January 1991 and has not been ratified in accordance with the legislation of our country at that time. In 2013, drafts of the founding documents of the International Investment Bank were drawn up, revised and revised. The amendments to the founding documents aim to update them in order to align them with the current functioning practice of international development banks. This new version of the founding documents was proposed by the Protocol on the amendments to the Agreement establishing the International Investment Bank and its Statute with the annex thereto, which was signed on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on 8 May 2014 in the implementation of the decision under point (c). 9 of Protocol No 16 of the Council of Ministers meeting on 23 April 2014. The amendments to the instruments of incorporation of the International Investment Bank are fully consistent with the basic principles and organisational practices of the structure and operation of international financial institutions and concern the following essential issues: the introduction of a proportional voting distribution system based on the share of each Member State in the Bank's paid-up capital and a new decision-making order [[unanimously on key issues and on other issues with a qualified majority of 3⁄4 and provided for an additional condition for supporting decisions by a simple majority of members present at the meeting, regardless of the amount of their votes]] ; a three-step corporate governance system through the establishment of a Board of Directors entrusted with the operational management of the Bank. An increase of the subscribed statutory capital of the Bank to 2 billion is also proposed. Euro (currently it is 1.3 billion. (EUR) by increasing the amount of the part not allocated between Member States, i.e. without making financial commitments and effective payment. This will provide an opportunity to attract new shareholders in the future and to satisfy the potential wishes of the member states to increase their shareholding. It is envisaged that the part of the allowances allocated between Member States to be converted into capital on request. At the moment Bulgaria's share in the paid-up part of the capital is 13.48 per cent, exceeding the country's vote in the current system of one country, where, given the number of participants in the Bank (9), we have 11.11 per cent of the total number of votes. The Annex to the Protocol, signed on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on 8 May 2014, is an integral part of it and constitutes a new version of the text of the Agreement establishing the International Investment Bank together with information on the amount of subscribed statutory capital and the allocation of quotas between the members of the Bank, presented in Annex No 1 to the new version of the Agreement, and the new version of the Statute of the International Investment Bank, representing Annex No 2 to the new version of the Agreement. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which, by 16 votes for.............................................................................................. 85, para. 1, t. 2, 4, 5, 7 and 8 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt the draft Law on ratification of Protocols amending the Agreement on the Founding of the International Investment Bank and its Statute.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. No representative on behalf of the importer. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I close the debate and put to the first vote a bill for ratification of Protocols amending the Agreement on the Founding of the International Investment Bank and its Statute No 602-02-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 November 2016. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The proposal has been adopted, and with this the Bill has been adopted in the first vote. Here you go, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose a procedure for the second vote on the newly adopted bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u27	A reverse opinion? I won't. A procedural proposal has been made to consider a second vote on this Bill. Please, vote mode. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. For a second reading, please come by the text itself, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u28	Thank you. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of Protocols amending the Agreement establishing the International Investment Bank and its Statute Art. 1. It ratifies the Protocol amending the Agreement establishing the International Investment Bank and its Statute, signed on 20 December 1990. Art. 2. Ratifying the Protocol on the amendments to the Agreement on the Establishment of the International Investment Bank and its Statute with the Annex thereto, signed by the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on 8 May 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u29	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the second vote the name of the bill, as art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2. They voted 93 MPs: 91, against 1, abstention 1. The proposal has been adopted, and with this the Bill has been adopted in a second vote. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: THE LAW OF CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR RADIO AND TELEVISION. The report for the second vote has the floor of Mr. Slavcho Atanasov, Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the National Assembly! The Council of Ministers submitted a second vote on a draft amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television, No 602-01-71, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 7 November 2016 and adopted a first vote on 20 December 2016. The amendment and supplement of the Radio and Television Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u31	We vote on the name of the Import Act supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u32	According to § 1, there is a proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the following 1. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: s (4) Alinea 3 may temporarily not apply to a programme from another Member State of the European Union, provided that: 1. The program openly, essentially and rudely violates art. 17, para. 2 and 3; 2. for a previous period of one year, there have been at least two infringements of point 2. 1 carried out by the television operator; 3. The Council for Electronic Media has notified the television operator and the European Commission in writing of the alleged infringements under this paragraph. 1 and the measures it intends to take if such an infringement occurs again; 4. consultations with the Member State under whose jurisdiction the television operator falls and with the European Commission have not led to an acceptable settlement within 15 days of the notification provided for in point 4. 3, and the alleged infringement continues. 2. A new para is being created. 5 and 6: (5) The European Commission shall rule on the compatibility of the measures under para. 4 t. 3 with European Union law within two months of notification under para. 4 t. 3. If incompatibility is established, the SEM shall immediately terminate the measures under para. 4 t. 3. (6) Paragraph 4 shall apply irrespective of the existence of grounds for seeking administrative criminal or other liability where the relevant infringements are provided for in the Member State under whose jurisdiction the television operator falls. 3. Previously on AMC's... 5 and 6 become respectively. 7 and 8 and are amended as follows: . (7) Alinea 3 may temporarily not apply to a certain media service on request from another Member State of the European Union where the restrictions are: 1. necessary for: (a) the protection of public order, in particular the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, including the protection of children and the fight against hatred on the basis of race, gender, religion or nationality and the violation of the human dignity of individuals; (b) the protection of public health (c) ensuring public security, including national security and defence; (d) consumer protection, including investors; 2. taken against a certain audio-visual media service on request that offends or may substantially and rudely prejudice those referred to in paragraph 2. 1 objectives; 3. proportionate to the objectives under point 3. 1. (8) Before the restrictions under para. 7, p. 1 and without prejudice to judicial proceedings, including preliminary procedural actions carried out in the course of the investigation, shall be informed: 1. the Member State under whose jurisdiction the media service provider falls shall take measures, since the media service provider has not taken such measures or the measures taken have not been sufficient; 2. The European Commission and the Member State under whose jurisdiction the media service provider falls for its intention to take the measures under para. 7. 4. The creation of para. 9. ? (9) The conditions laid down in para. 8 may not apply in urgent cases. Those cases shall be communicated as soon as possible to the European Commission and the Member State under whose jurisdiction the media service provider falls, indicating the reasons why the case is urgent.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Before I give you the floor for speeches, honourable Members, one supplement: in para. 6 is provided for in addition to administrative criminal and criminal liability. That is, after the search for an administrative criminal, there is also a criminal and the text that has been presented to us in the report. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text supported by the Commission importer in principle and edited by the same for § 1 in its report. I shall put to the vote § 1 on the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u34	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u35	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 2 by importer. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to reject § 2 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u36	According to § 3 there is a proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u37	We vote on the text of the importer for § 3 supported by the Commission and becoming § 2 in its report. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u38	'Concluding provisions'. Proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the division
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u39	We are voting for the edited name of the division by the Commission. Vote 75 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 1. The term "Concluding provision" has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u40	According to § 4 there is a proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u41	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 4 by importer. Vote 82 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 3. The Commission's proposal to reject § 4 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u42	According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission shall support the proposal and propose the following amendments to § 5, which shall become § 3: .................................................. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u43	We are voting § 3 on the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The paragraph has been adopted, and thus the Law at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, thank you, colleagues. After three criminal procedures of the European Commission, this saga finally ended with today's vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u45	We continue with the next item on the agenda: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION ON THE DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND THE STATEMENT OF THE PRIVACY OF BULGARIAN CIVILITY TO STATE SECURITY AND THE INNOVATION SERVICES OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S ARMY FOR THE PERIOD 20 DECEMBER 2015 "July 20, 2016" He is the importer of the documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army as of 19 July 2016. With the Internal Security and Public Order Committee's report, Mr. Petrov will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u46	Mr President, honourable Members, I will read to you: "COMMODITY" on a report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2015. On 20 July 2016, No 620-00-17, submitted by the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army on 19 July 2016. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order at its meeting held on 28 September 2016 examined the Report on the Commission's activities on disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2015. On 20 July 2016, No 620-00-17, submitted by the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army on 19 July 2016. From the Commission for the Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army at the meeting attended the President Evtim Kostadinov. Evtim Kostadinov briefly presented the Commission's activities in that reporting period. The report reflects data on the creation of a central archive of State Security documents and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The activities of ensuring access to documents, research and international activities of the Commission are presented. Information on court cases and upcoming tasks has been provided. The Commission, following the provisions of the Law, for the reporting period carried out an inspection of 23 639 Bulgarian citizens and declared membership of 645 persons. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The Commission has discussed and adopted 92 decisions on 30 June 2016. Evtim Kostadinov stressed that under an Agreement between the Commission and All mandatory checks according to art. 3 in the Commission's work are regularly carried out and will be implemented according to the requirements of the Law. As a result of the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order supported with 11 votes for the Council, without the votes against the Council and 1 vote abstention the submitted Report on the Commission's activities for disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2015. On 20 July 2016, No 620-00-17, submitted by the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army on 19 July 2016 and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision on it with the following wording: ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting a Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2015. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2). The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 4, para. 6 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army and art. 87, para. 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the Commission's activities on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2015. "20 July 2016"
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would just like to inform you that the Bulgarian Socialist Party, the BSP Parliamentary Group left Bulgaria several times in the last year had the opportunity to express its attitude towards the activities of this Commission and the necessity of its existence or, more precisely, its worthlessness. We believe that, more than 27 years after the beginning of the so-called "transition', the work of this Commission is rather becoming a witch hunt or something that is related to the use of information within the framework of a political appropriateness. I was not going to take any attitude, but I just wanted to inform you that precisely for this reason, considering that this Commission has only become a place where our people are accommodated to receive no bad salaries, secretaries, cars and sealing of their own time, the Bulgarian Socialist Party and the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria will not participate in the vote on this Report. We'll walk away with contempt!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Andreev. It's good to concentrate on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u50	Mr. Ermenkov, I am very surprised at the insolence of some people here. It is right, at least when you get up, to say: Capt. Radulov by pseudonym, currently At least if this Commission didn't act, we wouldn't know your name is Radulov. We wouldn't know how you were recalled from Germany, why you were recalled from Germany, and many other interesting things from the biographies of great scouts like you. However, if God's desire to forgive him was fulfilled, Cvetko Tsvetkov, also an officer of State Security, he urged the files of the transition to be made. Then we could have learned something about your company, Rollinex. So I am categorically against what the BSP has demonstrated. Once again, it shows what this party's intentions are, if God forbid, this severe natural disaster has happened to take power along with the DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u51	Any other lines? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ermenkov. You won't use it. Any other speeches? I won't. I vote on the draft decision presented to you by the parliamentary tribune. I'll read it to you one more time: ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting a Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2015. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2). The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 4, para. 6 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army and art. 87, para. 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the Commission's activities on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2015. "20 July 2016" Please vote. Abort the vote. While I was introducing the Bill, there's no telling why time was running, but nothing's gonna change. Abort the vote. There's no quorum. Please give me the list of names.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u52	Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - here Dimitar Andreev Delchev - absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - here Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - here Irena Lyubenova Sokolova - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - here Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - here Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - here Kiril Petrov Tsochev - absent Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - absent Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - here Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - absent Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza is absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - absent Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - here Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - absent Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Until now, additionally entered after their roll call in alphabetical order: Alexander Nenkov, Aliosman Imamov, Atanas Tashkov, Atanas Zafirov, Jayhan Ibryamov, Valeri Simeonov, Atanas Stoyanov, Kiril Kalfin, Kuncho Filipov, Mariana Boyadjieva, Kostadin Markov. We're moving on. Please, from the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, the draft decision. Who reported on this point? Petar Petrov, the draft decision is gone. How am I supposed to put something out for a vote that's not in front of me? Mr. Petrov, have you presented the draft decision from the report? I put to the vote the reported draft decision to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee Report on the Report on the Commission's activities for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2015 "20 July 2016. We vote. Voted 103 MPs: 82, against 4, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S WORK FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE 2014 CONSTRUCTION AND ANNUAL REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S WORK FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE 2015 CONSTRUCTION Importer: Commission for Protection of Competition In the previous plenary session, we have heard the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. There was a detailed speech by the MP Tasco Ermenkov and we are in a mode of debate on the report of the Commission on Protection of Competition. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take part in the discussion? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I'm reminiscent of the draft decision. Project! DECISION on the 2014 Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 87, para. 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 14 of the Law on Protection of Competition HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition 2014 We vote. Vote 81 MPs: 66, none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the 2015 Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 87, para. 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 14 of the Law on Protection of Competition HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition 2015 We vote. Vote 81 MPs: 66, none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Next item: ANNUAL REPORT BY THE COMMISSION ON THE REGULATION OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS COMMUNICATIONS FOR 2015 The Communications Regulation Commission is the importer. Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u53	Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on an annual report by the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of electronic communications, No 620-00-15, submitted by the Communications Regulation Commission on 20 June 2016. The Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of electronic communications, No 620-00-15, submitted by the Communications Regulation Commission, was reviewed at a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on 19 October 2016. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Valeri Borisov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technologies and Communications, Mr. Veselin Bozhkov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission, the members of the Communications Regulation Commission, Mrs. Andreana Atanasova, Mr. Konstantin Tilev and Mrs. Irina Romanska, experts from the Commission, representatives of NGOs in the field of electronic communications. The annual report was presented by Mr. Veselin Bozhkov. The annual report of the Communications Regulation Commission drawn up on the basis of art. 38, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications, represents an analysis of the development and progress in the electronic communications sector in 2015. During the presentation of the report Mr. Bozhkov outlined the main trends in the development of the electronic communications market in Bulgaria for 2015. According to the register of the Communications Regulation Commission, a total of 1162 companies had the right to operate in the provision of public electronic communications and in one year their number increased by 0.5 percent. Of the registered enterprises 1051 have submitted information to the Communications Regulation Commission in implementation of art. 5 of the General Terms and Conditions for Public Electronic Communications. The report noted that the total volume of the electronic communications market in Bulgaria for 2015 remained almost unchanged compared to 2014, amounting to 2,505 billion. lv. The President of the Communications Regulation Commission stressed that in 2015 the negative trend of decline in the volume of the market started in 2014. Both in previous years and in 2015 the total volume of the electronic communications market in Bulgaria is determined by the revenues from voice services, package services and data transmission services and/or Internet access offered separately. Mr. Bozhkov noted that in 2015. 457 enterprises have invested in the construction and maintenance of public electronic networks, which are 11.8% less than the previous period. The total amount of investments invested by these enterprises amounted to 524 million. lv. In the case of investments planned in 2014 for 2015 of 544 million. lv. This data shows that the investments planned by the undertakings for 2015 are almost fully realised. In view of the effective radio spectrum management in 2015, the Commission has conducted public consultations on the prospects for the use of the free resource in the 2,6 GHz frequency range. As a result of the consultations, the Communications Regulation Commission has announced the intention of auctioning 9 authorisations for use of radio frequency spectrum in the 2500-2690 MHz band. No intention to issue such authorisations has been received within the time limit set and therefore no tender has been conducted. In 2015, the Law on Electronic Communications has been amended several times, and changes do not lead to general changes to the regulatory framework. The most important amendment to the Law on Electronic Communications is the introduction for the first time of property penalties for non-compliance with the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 531/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on roaming in public mobile communications networks within the Union. Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications have also extended the scope of the applicable procedure in the event of established non-compliance with the general requirements, the conditions of permissions granted for use of a limited resource and/or of specific obligations imposed. In order to increase the effectiveness of control activities related to the implementation of electronic communications and compliance with the requirements of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature, inspection checks were carried out in 2015. It was pointed out that particular attention was paid to compliance with the requirements of the Law on Electronic Communications with regard to the protection of public interest and the interests of end-users. In this regard, Mr. Bozhkov stressed that around 52% of the inspection visits were carried out to the three largest companies providing electronic communications services. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 10 votes for the Council and 3 votes abstentions proposed that the National Assembly adopt the following decision: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of electronic communications 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 87, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in connection with art. 38, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of electronic communications 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues, I propose a procedure for admission in the hall of Mr. Veselin Bozhkov, Detelina Krasteva and Boryana Stoeva according to points 13 and 14, which are: Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of electronic communications 2015 and Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services. My proposal is on both points so we don't vote twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u56	Yes, thank you. We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 87 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Please invite the faces to the hall. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. Once again, allow me to introduce you to the draft decision on the adoption of the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of electronic communications 2015: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 87, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in connection with art. 38, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of electronic communications 2015 Please vote on your proposed draft decision. Vote 84 MPs: 78, against 2, abstention 4. The report has been adopted. The next item is: COMMISSION'S ANNUAL REPORT ON THE REGULATION OF MESSAGES IN THE AREA OF PERSONAL SERVICES Importer is the Communications Regulation Commission of 20 June 2016. Again, a report by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Here you go, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u57	♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 19 October 2016, the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services was reviewed. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Valeri Borisov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Deyan Daneshki, Executive Director of the Bulgarian Posts, Mr. Veselin Bozhkov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission, and the members of the Communications Regulation Commission, Mrs. Andreana Atanasova, Mr. Konstantin Tilev and Mrs. Irina Romanska, as well as experts from the Commission. Mr. Veselin Bozhkov presented the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services. In the report drawn up on the basis of art. 17, para. 1 of the Postal Services Act, an analysis was made of the provision of universal and non-universal postal services in the country. It also contains information about the state of competition in the postal market. It states that the postal services sector is developing rapidly in recent years mainly due to changing market conditions and the development of consumer needs, which, in turn, entails a change in demand for postal services. Mr. Bozhkov noted that parcel services are growing significantly due to e-commerce. For a three-year period, the number of parcel services provided has increased twice. At the same time, over the same period, the number of traditional postal services consumed decreased by 3% and the number of courier services increased by 57%. In 2015, the number of postal operators registered in public registers regulated in the Postal Services Act amounted to 154, representing an increase of 5% compared to the previous year. From non-ubiquitous postal services, as indicated in the report, the greatest commercial interest is the courier services, which are provided on the basis of a significantly relieved notification regime. During the past year, the number of operators who registered their intentions to provide courier services reached 145, of which 14 were newly registered. The Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services for 2015 presents also the structure of the revenue from postal services for the period 2013 - 2015. The total amount of revenue generated by the provision of postal services in 2015 amounts to about 315 million. BGN, which is an increase of 5% compared to 2014. The development of the postal market is also due to services provided in the market segment in non-universible postal services. The ratio between the shares of universal postal services and non-universal postal services in 2015 compared to the previous year has changed marginally by increasing by 2 percentage points in favour of universal postal services. This is mainly due to the increase in parcel revenue from the scope of universal postal services in 2015 compared to 2014. According to the data indicated in the report, in 2015, revenues from the universal postal market segment amounted to 65 million. lv. and rose from 2014 to about 15%. The implemented volumes of shipments and services from the scope of universal postal services total for the country and abroad are around 36 million. the number and remain almost unchanged compared to the previous reporting period. Revenues from non-ubiquitous postal services in 2015 The transfer services up to 35 kg, hybrid mail, direct postal advertising, imposed payment and delivery notices amount to 240 million. BGN, with an increase of around 2% compared to 2014. For the same period, the total number of consignments processed is 131 million, which is a 5% reduction compared to 2014. The reduction in the total number of processed consignments over the period is due to the reduction in the number of shipments from the services. In 2015, the number of items processed from the service "direct postal advertising" decreased by 21% compared to 2014 and the "hybrid mail" by 13%. The report noted that 197 complaints/signs from postal users against postal operators were addressed in the Commission. Of the total complaints lodged, 83 were considered justified and the applicants' claims were satisfied with certain actions and/or by payment of compensation due under the applicable General Terms and Conditions. The representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications spoke on the report was made by Mr. Valeri Borisov. He pointed out that the Bulgarian Post Offices have been able to adapt to the resources of the free market and despite the decrease in market share in the provision of traditional postal services in other areas, such as parcel delivery, they are growing. Mr. Borisov emphasized that the historical operator participates in the implementation of various projects so that he can meet the increased consumer requirements for the quality of the services provided in connection with the expansion of e-commerce. Mr. Deyan Daneshki outlined the specific measures taken by the management team of the Bulgarian Post Office in order to increase the competitiveness of the company. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 13 votes, proposed that the National Assembly adopt the following decision: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 87, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in connection with art. 17, para. 1 of the Postal Services Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services. "Analysis on the market of postal services 2015................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I vote on the draft decision which was presented to you by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Ivan Valkov. Vote 84 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 6. The draft decision has been adopted, and thus the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u59	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u60	Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose that we include in the Parliament's Work Programme this week the bill of amendments to the Insurance Code, to which I and my colleagues are importers. Yesterday this bill passed in the Committee on Economic Policy, and as I see, our programme for this week is not too busy. I'm making a procedural proposal to put the Insurance Code on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u62	A reverse opinion? I won't. We vote on the proposal. Vote 87 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I'm calling a half-hour break. We'll continue at 11.40. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u63	Honourable Members, we continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOADING IN BANKS. The representatives of the National Assembly are Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov on 16 May 2016. There is no report from the Committee on Budget and Finance to which the Bill is allocated, and we therefore move on to an opinion of the importers. You have the floor, dear Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We brought it in May last year, he's been waiting a long time for his turn, and I think we can handle it without a report from the leading Commission, because it's not bulky, and it seems pretty clear to me. As I said at his presentation, for which I thank all the colleagues who supported it to be included on the agenda, it concerns the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the banks and its accountability, i.e. its obligation to be accountable to Bulgarian citizens under the Public Information Access Act. You know, under this Law, including this National Assembly made changes, made improvements, extended the subject of accountability of state and municipal authorities, with the primary purpose of being in the service of citizens and reporting to them what work they are doing. But where does the problem come from? It comes from that that the Fund, as we found in the course of a court case, which we had led a long time ago against it, precisely because it refused to give us information under the Law on Access to Public Information, representatives of the Fund, and from the management of the Deposit Guarantee Fund, consider that this is not a public authority and is not a subject under the Law on Access to Public Information. This seems strange to us, to put it mildly, but frankly it is unlawful, because, as in the judgments I will point out in a moment, you can read that the Bulgarian court clearly and unambiguously said that it considers the Fund to be an institution obliged under the Public Information Access Act, given the way its governing body is formed and its functioning. And in order not to get into the hypothesis, the absurd hypothesis, rather the citizens do not go into the hypothesis of quoting this judgment by representatives of the Fund who tell them: yes, but it only concerns the case in question, so you, if you are so convinced, kindly, sue us again, ask the court to rule again and oblige us to provide you with information, for us it is clear that we must make a small change in the Law and clearly and categorically say that this body is a subject under the Public Information Access Act. Why is it so important to report it and provide information when asked? It is hardly necessary to remind you that it is the Deposit Guarantee Fund that we regularly place in a bank in bankruptcy, and this, in the context of the CCB, is currently an extremely painful topic for society, which we have repeatedly discussed, the topic which we regularly place with colleagues, and within the framework of parliamentary control, we are trying to obtain this accountability to a large extent, which I am talking about by asking questions to the Minister of Finance, and he, on his part, requires from the Fund in question and the Syndicates in question how much money we have collected from the drained in the CCB, what cases are being conducted, what is progress on them and so on, and so on, that is all the information that, in practice, not only us, but the whole society is interested in, in terms of the amount of funds that will be recovered from the stolen, from what is being stolen, from the CTB, and so on those nearly 4 billion. BGN that and more in fact, but these four billion, which the taxpayer practically provided so that the guaranteed deposits can be paid. The total went over 6, as you recall, from lost funds in this sunken bank. That is the point of the proposed changes. I'm asking you to really support them. Those of you who are interested can look at two judgments calmly. One is the Supreme Administrative Court of Admiral. d. 10934 from 2013, the other is the Administrative Court of Sofia-city under adm. d. 11861 of 2015, where they will see precisely that the Fund is a subject under this Law and should provide information to citizens. As I have pointed out, these judgments in practice concern only specific cases, only the specific complaint on the specific application under the Public Information Access Act. If we want this principle, which has led the court, in an interpretive way, to fasten it in the Law and make it binding, clear and unambiguous, this goes through this little legislative change. I'd say small, but very substantial. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Welcome to the public representative Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I appeal to you with an insistent request to support the Bill with very brief motives. What's this about? If one of you, colleagues, wants to know today how much money has recovered the Deposit Guarantee Fund at the bankruptcy table of CCB, for example, can only be answered through the Minister of Finance. The Deposit Guarantee Fund says that it is not a debtor and is not obliged to answer questions either to members or citizens. Do you think that's appropriate? Is it appropriate for a Fund that works with hundreds of millions of public funds, which deals with a very important issue such as CCB, not to be publicly reported under the Public Information Access Act? Or at least have an argument as to whether such accountability exists or not. The colleague Slavov informs you of a decision of the Bulgarian court. The Court says the following: according to the court, the Fund is accounted for anyway, and should provide information under the Public Information Access Act. However, this does not prevent the Fund in question from any awkward question. Listen to me well, to any uncomfortable question not to answer, to deny information and to have the citizens or MPs file a case in court to obtain information that we and our colleague Slavov conducted. I urge you to support me. This is about nothing more or less than transparency, publicity and public control. The principle is very simple. If you handle hundreds of millions of public funds, you should answer both citizens' questions and MPs' questions about your work, be a debtor. Otherwise, it turns out that these people don't report to the public, it's not really clear who they report to, if you ask me. Dear colleagues, I call on you to vote on this. It's the right thing to do. It's the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I fully agree with the arguments you have pointed out, but I would like to ask you: in addition to the Deposit Guarantee Fund, there are other public financial institutions that are no less important, which deal with no less money and bear no less responsibility for the financial stability of the state, the state institutions, for example in the BNB Financial Supervision Commission. Are there similar texts, is there such an equivalent possibility of access to information from these institutions? Because if there isn't, then it's gonna work out so that some people have, and some people don't. There has to be the same approach. That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u70	Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Kazak, thank you for your reply. There is no doubt that BNB is a debtor under the Public Information Access Act and the Bank itself has never claimed anything different. The problem with the Deposit Guarantee Fund is that they claim that they are not a debtor, including to us, and we had to bring a case in court to clarify this issue. I mean, about the institutions that you mentioned, Mr. Kazak, there is no case. If there is an institution with which you have encountered and have seen a similar problem, and you have had to seek access to information by court order, you can, like us, add the principle of accountability to this institution in this Law, but especially with BNB such a case does not exist. We align the existing opportunities and practice to have access to everyone, to be universal and that no one can hide information and not report to society, so we introduce the same principle for everyone, which is universal. Of course, I realize that there will probably be similar cases in the future. When there is such a case and when an institution claims and does not answer questions about access to public information, similar changes in legislation will also be required. Otherwise there is a universal principle and it is as follows: when an organisation is under public control, it must be taken into account, and when it works with public funds, it must be taken into account. This is the general principle, so I understand this legislation. Colleagues, I urge you once again to support us. The conclusion will be as follows: every Bulgarian citizen will be able to ask questions to the Deposit Guarantee Fund for the collected money, say, from KTB. This information should be public, nothing to hide. After this Fund takes hundreds of millions of leva from the budget, including those voted by us, there is no reasonable reason not to report to the Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any other speeches? I won't. I close the debates and put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Deposit Guarantee Act in the banks, No 654-01-65, submitted by the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov on 16 May 2016. Please vote. They voted 72 MPs: 32, against 2, abstention 38. The bill hasn't been passed. Come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u72	Dear colleagues, I ask for a revoting... colleague Delchev could not vote. But the other reason is that I have seen the main abstentions of fellow Members who have not taken a clear position, do we really want us to have clear accountability, or do we prefer to abstain? So I suggest, my fellow Members, that we really support this bill. If there are any problems between the two readings can be removed. This is a first vote and we are voting in principle whether we want there to be clear accountability for all the authorities in this country working with public funds, or do we believe that some of them should be subject to Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Revoting procedure. They voted 82 MPs: 36, against 3, abstention 43. The bill was not adopted in the first vote. We move on to the next item that was voted before the break: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE FOR CONSERVATION. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will introduce us to the Vice-President of the Commission the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I present to your attention the Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on a Draft Draft for Supplement to the Insurance Code, No 654-01-85, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev and a group of MPs on 7 July 2016, adopted at the first vote on 15 December 2016. The claim to supplement the Insurance Code. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u75	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u76	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 481, para. 1 sentence first, the first sentence is added, including the camping cars, and in the second sentence, the second sentence is added, including the camping-restores, and the second sentence is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u77	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1 supported by the Commission in principle. Please vote on § 1 on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 77, none, abstention 3. Paragraph 1 in the version of the Commission on its report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u78	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 489, para. 4 "4." In the case of insurance of motor vehicles categories L1 149, para. 1, t. 1 letters sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss 5. in the case of insurance of camping-restores or camping-cars.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u79	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission in principle and edited by the same for § 2. We are voting § 2 on the Commission report. Vote 77 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 4. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u80	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 53 and 54: "53." "Camping vehicle' means a special purpose vehicle of category M, the characteristics of which are specified in Annex 1, Part A, etc. 5 point 5.1 of Regulation No 60 of 24 April 2009 on type-approval of new vehicles and their trailers. 54. "Camping trailer' is a special purpose vehicle of category O whose characteristics are specified in Annex 1, Part A, point A. 5 point 5.6 of Regulation No 60 of 24 April 2009 on type-approval of new vehicles and their trailers
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-12.u81	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission, edited by the same for § 3. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. § 3 of the Commission's report was adopted, thus the Second Voting Bill. Communication for Parliamentary Control on 13 January 2017, Friday 11:00 p.m. 1. The Minister of Defence in Retire Nikolay Nenchev will answer a question from the MPs Ivan Valentinov and Atanas Zafirov. 2. The Minister of Environment and Waters, Ivelina Vasileva, will answer two questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov, and Katya Popova. 3. The Minister of Agriculture and Food in Retire Desislava Taneva will answer two questions from the MPs Boyka Marinska, and Dimitar Delchev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of the Interior in Retirement Rumyana Bachvarova to two questions from the MPs Yavor Haytov, and Magdalena Tasheva, and to a question with written answer from the MPs Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy in Retirement Tomislav Donchev on two issues from the MPs Yavor Haytov, and Willi Lilkov, - the Minister of Finance in Retirement Vladislav Goranov to two questions from the MP Yavor Haytov, - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works in Retirement Lilyana Pavlova to two questions from the MPs Yavor Haytov and Manol Genov, and to one question with a written answer from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, - Minister of Culture in Retirement Vecdi Rashidov to a question written by the MPs Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov, and Metodi Andreev, - Minister of Agriculture and Foods in Retirement Desislava Taneva to two questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev, and to one question with a written answer from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov, Yordan Tsonev, and Stanislav Anastasov, - Minister of Tourism in Retirement Nikolina Angelkova to two questions from the MPs Atanas Zafirov, and Vasil Antonov, - Minister of Youth and Sports in Retirement Krasen Kralev to two questions with written answer from the MPs Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, and Valentin Pavlov. In the absence of the country, the Minister of Energy in Retirement Temenuzhka Petkova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to official commitments related to the activities of the Crisis Headquarters for the Protection of the Population of Disasters and Accidents in relation to the complicated situation in the country, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works will not participate in the meeting for parliamentary control in the resignation of Lilyana Pavlova. Due to commitments of an international nature, the Minister of Health in Retirement Petar Moskov will not take part in the parliamentary control meeting. For health reasons, the Minister of Economics resigned Bozidar Lukarski will not take part in the parliamentary control meeting. In connection with the leadership of the Crisis Headquarters, formed in order to control the complicated winter situation and the plan adopted by the Council of Ministers to counter domestic crime and coordinate the organization of the specialized police operation to counter domestic crime, which is beginning to take place at local level, the meeting for parliamentary control will not take part in the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for Home Affairs in Retirement Rumyana Bachvarova. Tomorrow we continue, January 13th is the date, from 9:00 p.m. with the Second Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Road Transport.. a joint project prepared by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the basis of the laws adopted on the first vote on 28 October 2016 with importers Council of Ministers on 16 June 2016, as well as the bills of Ivan Valkov and Stanislav Ivanov on 7 October 2016. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourning today's meeting. Next one tomorrow, January 13th, at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
