ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u1	Good morning, colleagues! Please take your seats. I hope you've been able to rest. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, we're moving on to the sixth point, which is the first point for today. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u2	I am not sure whether you should not have, after announcing the point, but in relation to the examination of the draft Decision on the adoption of the position of the National Assembly on the draft Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, 1 January 30 June 2018, please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 to be admitted to the hall of the following persons: Emilia Kraleva? Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs; Lieutenant General of the Reserve Atanas Zapreyanov? Deputy Minister of Defence; Denitsa Sacheva? Deputy Minister of Education and Science and Gabriela Kozareva? Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u3	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin! I will first read the point and then put your procedure to the vote. The sixth item, the first item for today, is: PROJECT OF THE DECISION TO ACCEPT THE POSITION OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE PROJECT OF THE PROGRAM OF BULGARIA FOR THE PRESENTATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 1 JANUARY - 30 June 2018. Importers: Kristian Vigenin, Ivelina Vasileva, Gemma Grozdanova, Petar Petrov, Ivan V. Ivanov, Polina Tsankova, Albena Naydenova and Miglena Alexandrova, 21 November 2017 and Draft Decision for adoption of the position of the National Assembly on the draft Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, 1 January - 30 June 2018. Colleagues, we are voting on Mr. Vigenin's so-called procedural proposal for admission. Vote 152 MPs: 150 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Mr. Vigenin, please read the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on the draft Decision adopting the position of the National Assembly on the draft Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, January 1st? 30th, 2018, No 754-02-95, submitted by Kristian Ivanov Vigenin, Ivelina Vasileva, Gemma Grozdanova, Petar Petrov, Ivan Ivanov, Polina Tsankova, Hristova, Albena Naydenova and Miglena Alexandrova on November 21st, 2017. At its regular meeting held on 22 November 2017, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds discussed the Draft Decision on the adoption of the National Assembly's Position on the draft Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, 1 January Given that the National Assembly is actively involved in the discussions on the priorities set in the draft Programme of the Presidency, and that it has its commitments under its Parliamentary Dimension, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds has drawn up a draft Decision adopting the position of the National Assembly on the draft Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, 1 January 30 June 2018. The project was developed on the basis of the conclusions and results of the joint meetings, meetings and discussions held with the participation of the Standing Parliamentary Committees. The draft Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union was presented at a regular meeting of KEVKEF, held on 12 July 2017 by Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018. In connection with the debate on the future of the Cohesion Policy after 2020, KEVKEF held a hearing with Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister. Topics such as the future of the European Union budget, the role of Cohesion Policy in the context of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the EU and its commitment to the development of the economy, as well as specific issues on the absorption of European funds for the period 2014-2020 were discussed. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism held a meeting with Mr. Jyrki Katainen, Vice-President of the European Commission, responsible for jobs, growth, investment and competitiveness, which addressed the issues of the challenges facing the EU, security and investment opportunities, as well as the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the EU, falling within the scope of its portfolio. A joint meeting between KEVKEF and the Internal Affairs and Security Commission was held with Dimitris Avramopoulos, a member of the European Commission responsible for migration, internal affairs and citizenship. At the meeting were discussed the preparation of the parliamentary dimension of the Bulgarian Presidency, as well as the issues and challenges facing the Union in the field of migration, border protection and home affairs. Together with the Committee on Budget and Finance, KEVKEF held a meeting, which was attended by Gunther Oettinger, a member of the European Commission, responsible for budget and human resources. The meeting was also attended by members of the European Parliament from Bulgaria, members of the European Economic and Social Committee, representatives of the Committee of the Regions, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and members of the Public Council at KEVKEF. The discussion discussed a number of important issues for Bulgaria and the European Union, including the future of EU cohesion and agricultural policy, as well as the next Multiannual Financial Framework. Together with the Foreign Policy Committee, a joint meeting was held on the topic: the future of the Western Balkans in the European Union from the perspective of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Macedonia, Serbia-Montenegro. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds and the Committee on Foreign Policy held a joint meeting on a broad discussion on the topic:................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the second part of the discussion: "Projects and initiatives for deepening regional cooperation and improving the connectivity of transport, communication, energy and energy in South East Europe" took part representatives of: Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Ministry of Energy. On the draft of the Programme, the Permanent Parliamentary Committees held hearings of the regional ministers regarding the Presidency and presented to the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds reports containing information on their results. The priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union on portfolios are presented in: the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, the Committee on Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence resources and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad and the Committee on Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Reports to KEVKEF came from: the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad and the Commission on Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence resources and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. The draft Decision adopting the position of the National Assembly on the draft Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, January 1, 2018 reflects the active role of Parliament in the joint efforts for the successful implementation of the Bulgarian Presidency and the formulation of its priorities. After the discussion and voting on the oral amendments received in writing and made, and after the vote on the final text as a whole, with 8 votes for the European Affairs and Control Committee of the European Funds unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision adopting a position of the National Assembly on the draft Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, 1 January 30 June 2018, No 754-02-95, submitted on 21 November 2017. ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting a position of the National Assembly on the draft Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union (January 1st 30th June 2018) The National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria Leading by the belief that the first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union provides an opportunity for the Republic of Bulgaria to strengthen its role in defining the agenda of the European Union and in cooperation with the other Member States and the European institutions to work for the common interest, in response to citizens' expectations for a secure, solidarity, united and social Europe; By adopting the Presidency of the Council of the European Union as an important national task, which can present Bulgaria in a positive light as a prepared, constructive and correct mediator in the upcoming key European debates; Taking into account the strengthened role of national parliaments after the Treaty of Lisbon in forming and implementing the European agenda's leading priorities; Stressing the importance of the parliamentary dimension of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union for its successful implementation and stating readiness to interact with the government on all important topics and planned initiatives; Recalling once again the stated readiness and the policy for seeking and reaching agreement and synergies between the parliamentary represented political forces on the issues of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in terms of transparency and accountability of the Bulgarian participation in the decision-making process in the European Union, HAS DECIDED 1. Expresses principled support for the announced priorities in the draft Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union by sharing the main messages of consensus, competitiveness and cohesion, as well as motto. 2. He proposed to the Bulgarian Government in the adoption of the final programme to take into account the following topics identified by the National Assembly as short-term and long-term priorities for the European Union and Bulgaria: 2.1. European budget, Cohesion policy, common agricultural policy - the multiannual financial framework of the European Union for the period after 2020 to ensure that successful policies of the European Union are maintained, leading to the achievement of the Union's strategic objectives of cohesion, increased competitiveness, economic growth and the creation of quality jobs, social progress and combating poverty; - preserving cohesion policy as one of the main instruments for achieving economic and social convergence in a fair distribution of funds between Member States; a constructive approach to regional policy by differentiated supplementing the grant financial assistance for the backward regions with financial instruments; - strengthening the common agricultural policy as a strong and adequately funded Community policy, preserving the single area payment scheme and support linked to production in order to ensure the sustainable development of this key sector of the European economy. 2.2. Defence, security and migration - agreeing to finalise the reform of the Common European Asylum System, including with the adoption of a revised Dublin Regulation, focusing on the implementation of targeted measures to prevent illegal migration and trafficking in human beings; - bringing forward the fight against organised crime and terrorism by ensuring better interaction and exchange of information and data between Member States' national security services and adopting a new legal framework for the functioning of the Schengen Information System; - Bulgaria's active role in efforts to deepen cooperation and develop an effective common defence policy with a view to enhancing the security of the European Union and its citizens; a permanent commitment to solidarity support towards the Member States at the external borders of the European Union, including strengthening border control; support for the adoption of a European Industrial Development Programme in the field of defence and promoting participation in projects under the European Defence Fund. 2.3. The European Social Model. Education, Youth and Culture - support for the development of the European Pillar of Social Rights and its three main elements: equal opportunities and access to the labour market, fair working conditions, social protection and inclusion; - preserving and developing existing mechanisms for overcoming poverty and social exclusion, including the European Social Fund; - efforts to finalise negotiations on changes to the Posting of Workers Directive, taking into account to the fullest extent the interests of countries with lower than the EU average remuneration in the most sensitive sectors and ensuring the free movement of persons; - strengthening coordination on health assistance issues; - linking the multi-component theme of the future of labour with support for entrepreneurship and job creation, focusing on measures to increase youth employment through quality education and the creation of skills sought in the modern economy; - support for Europe-wide education programmes, measures and initiatives in the forthcoming negotiations under the Multiannual Financial Framework, including the Multiannual Financial Framework, by demonstrating its role and contribution to improving the quality of education and training in the European Union, promoting mobility and active civic participation; - promoting culture as one of the main drivers for the development of the European Union, restoring citizens' confidence in the European project and including the values of the European Union in response to the growing disunity and countering the rising radical anti-European movements; raising awareness of the objectives, initiatives and events related to the European Year of Cultural Heritage. 2.4. Competitive economy, digital market - efforts to accelerate the process of completing the Single Digital Market in order to increase the competitiveness of the European economy, promote economic growth and expand the opportunities for efficient use of the Internet to consumers; - establishing conditions for ensuring network and information security and regulation of privacy of personal data; - establishing the relevant financing instruments to support small and medium-sized enterprises, simplifying administrative burdens as a prerequisite for successful implementation of the Initiative to support start-up and growing enterprises. 2.5. Enlargement and regional cooperation - creating a new impetus in the process of extending the European Union to the countries of the Western Balkans as a guarantee of stability, economic development and social progress, both in Southeast Europe and on the European continent as a whole, by taking concrete steps and initiatives: supporting reforms in the candidate countries, in order to achieve the criteria for membership more quickly; stronger inclusion of countries in the region towards the achievement of the European Union's strategic objectives; strong focus on connectivity between both candidate countries and the Member States of the region in all its dimensions; transport, energy, economic, communication, digital, facilitating contacts between people; - adoption of a final document from the summit in Sofia for the Western Balkans to confirm the political will of the European Union to unite the Western Balkans and efforts are made to accompany it with a roadmap with concrete initiatives, commitments and indicative deadlines for their realization; - strengthening the visibility of the Black Sea region, including by enhancing connectivity with the Danube region and by making full use of the potential and tools of the macro-regional strategies of the European Union; - implementation of the results of the Fifth Eastern Partnership Summit aimed at building a democratic, stable, prosperous and sustainable space in the countries of the Eastern Partnership as one of the priorities of the European Union and the trio chairing Estonia, Bulgaria, Austria. 3. Encourages the Bulgarian Government to work towards adopting balanced solutions in order to preserve unity between the Member States of the European Union and to implement the strategic priorities of the European Union, thereby focusing its efforts on achieving concrete results within the six-month period of the Presidency. 4. Ministers should regularly inform the parliamentary committees about the progress of the implementation of the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency and the results of the meetings of the European Council to be presented to the National Assembly. 5. The programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union to be presented to the National Assembly after its adoption by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Here comes the second Project for decision Mr. Ibryamov, if you'd like to introduce him to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! I will present the draft decision of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms on the Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Motives: Given the extremely important importance of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union (January 1, June 30, 2018) for the Republic of Bulgaria and the need for active participation of the National Assembly, we propose a draft decision adopting a position of the National Assembly on the draft Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The project was developed on the basis of: - the Council's 18-month programme (1 July 2017) - 31 December 2018), prepared by the Estonian, Bulgarian and Austrian Presidency, presented in the European Union Report of 2 June 2017; - the Treaty of Lisbon, which presents the active role of national parliaments in implementing the priorities of the European Union; - The programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The draft decision allows for the participation and position of the National Assembly for the upcoming Presidency on the basis of the foundations of the rule of law. Honourable Members, given the three policings of Estonia, Bulgaria, Austria, which aim to adopt a comprehensive and integrated approach to preventing violent extremism, with this approach also focusing on the role of education and intercultural dialogue, respect and protection of common values, fundamental rights and freedoms and the rule of law, I will present to your attention the decisions we have drawn: "1." Instructs the Bulgarian Government at the adoption of the final programme to take into account the following topics identified by the National Assembly as priority for the European Union and Bulgaria and continues their work after the end of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union: 1.1. European budget, cohesion policy, common agricultural policy - the multiannual financial framework of the European Union for the period after 2020 to ensure that successful policies of the European Union are maintained, leading to the achievement of the Union's strategic objectives of cohesion, increased competitiveness, economic growth and the creation of quality jobs, social progress and combating poverty; - preserving cohesion policy as one of the main instruments for achieving economic and social convergence in a fair distribution of funds between Member States; a constructive approach to regional policy by differentiated supplementing the grant financial assistance for the backward regions with financial instruments; - strengthening the common agricultural policy as a strong and adequately funded Community policy, preserving the single area payment scheme and support linked to production in order to ensure the sustainable development of this key sector of the European economy. 1.2. Defence, security and migration - agreeing to finalise the reform of the Common European Asylum System, including with the adoption of a revised Dublin Regulation, focusing on the implementation of targeted measures to prevent illegal migration and trafficking in human beings; - bringing forward the fight against organised crime and terrorism by ensuring better interaction and exchange of information and data between Member States' national security services and adopting a new legal framework for the functioning of the Schengen Information System; - Bulgaria's active role in efforts to deepen cooperation and develop an effective common defence policy with a view to enhancing the security of the European Union and its citizens; a permanent commitment to solidarity support towards the Member States at the external borders of the European Union, including strengthening border control; support for the adoption of a European Industrial Development Programme in the field of defence and promoting participation in projects under the European Defence Fund. 1.3. The European Social Model. Education, Youth and Culture - support for the development of the European Pillar of Social Rights and its three main elements: equal opportunities and access to the labour market, fair working conditions, social protection and inclusion; - preserving and developing existing mechanisms for overcoming poverty and social exclusion, including the European Social Fund; - efforts to finalise negotiations on changes to the Posting of Workers Directive, taking into account to the fullest extent the interests of countries with lower than the EU average remuneration in the most sensitive sectors and ensuring the free movement of persons; - strengthening coordination on health assistance issues; - linking the multi-component theme of the future of labour with support for entrepreneurship and job creation, focusing on measures to increase youth employment through quality education and the creation of skills sought in the modern economy; - support for Europe-wide education programmes, measures and initiatives in the forthcoming negotiations under the Multiannual Financial Framework, including the Multiannual Financial Framework, by demonstrating its role and contribution to improving the quality of education and training in the European Union, promoting mobility and active civic participation; - promoting culture as one of the main drivers for the development of the European Union, restoring citizens' confidence in the European project and including the values of the European Union in response to the growing disunity and countering the rising radical anti-European movements; raising awareness of the objectives, initiatives and events related to the European Year of Cultural Heritage. 1.4. Competitive economy, digital market - efforts to accelerate the process of completing the Single Digital Market in order to increase the competitiveness of the European economy, promote economic growth and expand the opportunities for efficient use of the Internet to consumers; - establishing conditions for ensuring network and information security and regulation of privacy of personal data; - establishing the relevant financing instruments to support small and medium-sized enterprises, simplifying administrative burdens as a prerequisite for successful implementation of the Initiative to support start-up and growing enterprises. 1.5. Enlargement and regional cooperation - establishing a new momentum in the process of extending the European Union to the Balkan countries as a guarantee of stability, economic development and social progress, both in Southeast Europe and on the European continent as a whole, by taking concrete steps and initiatives: supporting reforms in candidate countries, in order to achieve the criteria for membership more quickly; stronger inclusion of countries in the region towards achieving the strategic objectives of the European Union; strong focus on connectivity between both candidate countries and between them and the Member States of the region in all its dimensions - transport, energy, economic, communication, digital, facilitating contacts between people; promoting good neighbourly relations and lasting overcoming existing nationalist and radical beliefs; - adoption of a final document from the Sofia Summit on the Western Balkans to confirm the political will of the European Union to unite the Western Balkans and to make efforts to accompany it with a roadmap with concrete initiatives, commitments and indicative deadlines for their realization; adoption of a final document from the Sofia Summit on the Republic of Turkey to confirm the political will of the European Union in support of the democratic processes in Turkey and the continuation of the negotiation process. - enhancing the visibility of the Black Sea region, including by increasing connectivity with the Danube region, and by making full use of the potential and tools of the macro-regional strategies of the European Union. 1.6. Freedom, security and justice - adoption of a final document from the Sofia Summit on the implementation of a wide-ranging and integrated approach to prevent all forms of radicalisation, extremism and nationalism with emphasis on the role of education and intercultural dialogue, respect and protection of common values, fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens and the rule of law; - presentation of the Bulgarian ethnic model as a successful model in Bulgaria for solving the interethnic problems and building a civil nation based on real integration, preserving the identity. 2. Instructs the Bulgarian Government to work for the adoption of balanced decisions in order to preserve unity between the Member States of the European Union and to implement the strategic priorities of the European Union, with the aim to achieve concrete results within the six-month period of the Presidency. 3. Ministers should regularly inform the parliamentary committees about the progress of the implementation of the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency and the results of the meetings of the European Council to be presented to the National Assembly. 4. The program of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union to be presented to the National Assembly after its adoption by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. Mrs. Grozdanova, in the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, to you because it did not become clear what Mr. Ibryamov read. The text that has been tabled by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is based not on the trio programme, but on the decision that we have tabled all the political groups. They have five different suggestions. On behalf of an importer, it should be explained what the difference is and why these five proposals have been submitted on the basis of the text of our decision. That's what I wanted to explain to the gym. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. The reasons of the importer for the first draft decision. Mrs. Vasileva, come in. The reasons are to draft Law No 754-02-95, submitted by Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u10	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members! I present to you the draft decision for the adoption of a position of the National Assembly on the draft programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the period 1 January 30 June 2018. Let me start by saying that ten years after Bulgaria's adoption as a full member of the European Union, Bulgarians remain one of the biggest Euro-optimists. According to the recently published statement from the analysis made by the Representation of the European Commission in Bulgaria, the approval of our country's European integration is maintained within 50 percent. The image of the European Union is positive for the Bulgarians as a democratic take it 63% and as a protective and solidarity 52%. I believe that on the threshold of the first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, in this responsible period, we will contribute to meeting the expectations of Bulgarian citizens for the promotion of our common European home. This is for us a great responsibility to work in synergies and agreement on this topic, which has the character of a nationwide and non-partisan topic. The draft decision tabled by the majority of the members of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is a result of the active participation of the National Assembly in the discussions on the priorities set in the draft programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and has its commitments under the parliamentary dimension of the Presidency. Only three days ago, the parliamentary delegation of the Bulgarian Parliament took part in the 58th plenary session of the Conference of the European Union Committees in Tallinn. The forum was closed with the symbolic transmission of the relay from Estonia to Bulgaria, which takes over the presidency after exactly one month. We, the importers from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, have drawn up the draft decision to adopt the position of the National Assembly on the draft Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union on the basis of the conclusions and results of joint meetings, meetings and discussions of the Standing Parliamentary Committees. These meetings were attended by representatives of the executive power, members of the European Commission and the European Parliament, ambassadors of Western Balkan countries, the Committee of the Regions, the National Association of Municipalities, members of the European Economic and Social Council, as well as the Public Council of the Commission, where there are representatives of academic, employers', trade union, student and non-governmental organisations. Unlike other topics that are subject to sharp debates and opposition, the spirit of fruitful dialogue, constructiveness and consensus in which the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds works must be emphasised. Here I would like to express my special thanks to the President of the Commission, Mr Vigenin. [[Single applause.]] We are all aware of the importance of the tasks and dimension of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. In the draft decision to adopt a position of the National Assembly on the draft Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency, we are based on the search for a common consensus. By observing the principles for the separation of the authorities and functions of the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers, with our draft decision we express principle support for the announced priorities in the Bulgarian Programme for the Presidency in sharing the main messages of consensus, competitiveness and cohesion, and motto. We propose to the Bulgarian government in the adoption of a final programme to take into account the topics defined by the National Assembly as priority for the European Union and Bulgaria and to continue working on them after the end of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The topics are: the European budget, the policy and the common agricultural policy, the defence, security and migration, the European social model. Education, youth and culture, Economics and digital market.. Enlargement and regional cooperation................................................................................................... We encourage the Bulgarian Government to work towards the adoption of balanced solutions in order to preserve unity between the Member States of the European Union and to implement the strategic priorities of the European Union, with the aim to achieve concrete results within the six-month period of the Presidency. The draft decision states that the ministers should regularly inform the parliamentary committees about the progress of the implementation of the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency and the results of the meetings of the European Council to be presented to the National Assembly. The programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council should be presented to the National Assembly after its adoption by the Council of Ministers, which I think will happen very soon. A significant contribution to the debates were also outlined the main priorities in terms of the Bulgarian significant topics. I would like to focus here on the topic of cohesion policy that is fundamental to the European Union. The debate about her future is coming. The European Commission is expected to present its proposals for the new multiannual financial framework in May 2018, and then to start a wide range of consultations. The focus, in our view, must be on the ongoing cohesion policy with a focus on growth and employment and, of course, the future of the European and structural investment funds, modernised but preserving free funding, simplification and modernisation of the common agricultural policy. A key priority of the Presidency should also be the focus on security, migration, prevention of radicalisation and justice. A contribution to the European future and security can be the integration of the Western Balkans and the integrated development of the Danube and Black Sea regions. Extremely important topics for us, which have the chance to be upgraded and developed and with the subsequent presidencies of Austria and Romania. Of course, competitiveness through support for entrepreneurship, small and medium-sized enterprises, start-ups to achieve economic growth and job creation. To strengthen the development of the European Union can also contribute to the future-oriented environment, the effective energy union, the single market and the deepening of the economic and monetary union for which Bulgaria will work within its Presidency. Honourable Members, through the draft of our decision once again, Parliament will be able to state the intention and the policy for seeking consent and unity between all parliamentary represented political forces on the issues of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. We are obliged to respond to the challenges that stand before all of us. The future of Europe and Brexit, security and migration, terrorism, climate change, digital society. As politicians, let us make our contribution, not only within the Presidency, but also by bringing together a common vision for the future of Europe. With this thanks for the attention, and thank the Bulgarian government for the efforts so far. Let's wish a successful presidency! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. I open the debate on the two draft decisions. Please come in for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u12	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the House! The Bulgarian Presidency is important as a political and social model for raising Bulgaria's credibility as a member of the European Union. And on the eve of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in finalising the discussion on the scenarios proposed by the European Commission and the resulting policies, the main ideas, initiatives and priorities for the Bulgarian Presidency and for our national position on the future of the European Union come to the fore. Today in Europe, among all the positive things, there is resentment of the present and fear of what is to come. The citizens of the European Union are experiencing an acute shortage of justice and solidarity. The closure, the isolated pursuit of personal well-being, has proved a dead end with devastating consequences. This is the regular result of the sovereignty of the neoliberal model. The differences between the Member States in the European Union are enormous, especially in the social area. We need another Europe! It is necessary to give a clear political answer to the question that European citizens ask themselves, including Bulgarians, does the economy exist to serve citizens or citizens exist to serve the economy. We, on the left, from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, defend the thesis that the European Union can only be effective if we assume that solidarity and action aimed at overcoming poverty and inequalities are on the agenda and ensuring equal rights for all European citizens. National and local authorities which are primarily responsible for social action cannot be ignored, but the European Union must examine the possibilities and ways to further support Member States' actions by making full use of all its instruments. Minimum standards must be set, and even in selected areas the rights of citizens across the European Union could be fully harmonised in order to focus on social cohesion. On 8 March 2016, the European Commission launched a public consultation on its future proposal for the European pillar of social rights. The European Commission's initiative to create a European pillar of social rights is a set step in the right direction, which will enable the development of the principles enshrined in the European Social Charter, deepening integration processes between Member States and providing additional guarantees for employees' rights. One of the main expectations for the so-called social rights pillar is to ensure the balance of policies imposed in recent years to limit public spending and workers' rights. The European Court of Social Rights was finally adopted within the framework of the European Social Meeting, which took place on 16 and 17 November in Gothenburg, under the household of the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden. In the meantime, on 19 January 2017, the European Parliament adopted a Resolution on the European Pillar of Social Rights. It clearly outlines the expectations of the citizens of the European Union from this social pillar. It should not be limited to declarations of principles or good intentions, but also to support social rights through specific and specific instruments such as legislation, policy-making mechanisms and financial instruments. In this resolution, the European Parliament outlines several key areas in which the social pillar should lead to qualitative change. My expectations for the social pillar, as a socially sensitive person, are related to updating existing social standards in the direction of their promotion. I believe that there are several areas where concrete action needs to be taken and these are: working conditions, improving and extending the scope of social protection, ensuring equal opportunities and access to the labour market, ensuring the free movement of people in the European Union and labour mobility. In this context, I will share that I see two important points from the resolution, which are of immediate interest to Bulgaria and the first one is: the European pillar of social rights as an instrument of economic and social cohesion, oriented towards the highest standards, and secondly the full guarantees for the free movement of people and workers in the European Union, combined with additional tools to protect the interests of mobile workers and their labour and social rights. The resolution clearly outlines the need to provide funds to achieve practical results from the implementation of the European pillar of social rights. For me and for BSP as a party it is important that there is called for the introduction of a social protocol to guarantee the advantage of social rights over economic freedoms and that the need to provide additional funding for the purposes of the social pillar, including under the European Structural and Investment Funds, is explicitly highlighted. This strengthening of European social solidarity in particular.. with regard to the fight against poverty and social inclusion, through the resources of the European Social Fund and the European Fund to support needs, is of particular importance for Bulgaria, so the Bulgarian Presidency must stand firm and unreservedly principled positions in support of the development of the European Pillar of Social Rights and its three main elements: equal opportunities and access to the labour market, fair working conditions, social protection and inclusion, defending the creation of a fair labour market, non-discrimination, protection of the free movement of people, investments in education and training, support for continuing the call guarantee for jobs, emergency measures to overcome poverty and social exclusion through adequate social protection, expressing access to quality health, basic income, social rights, adequate pensions and so on. I am aware that defending solidarity and equal rights is a complex task. We have a lot of work to do so that the European social pillar does not remain only a good intention. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Any lines to Mr. Gokov's statement? I can't see. Mr. Ivan Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u14	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I personally welcome today's decision, which I expect to be taken by consensus from the National Assembly, because the parliamentary dimension of the Bulgarian Presidency is an integral part of all events, all actions that will be taken by both the government and the parliament, so that Bulgaria can come to the forefront and make the most of the dividends from this Presidency. I also welcome the priorities that have been taken out of parliament and which the Bulgarian government should adopt and, I hope, will accept them willingly after the vote on the decision, on the basis of discussions that have been held in the Commission and the necessary expert opinions received. One of the topics, which is, of course, extremely important and must be extremely well affected and Bulgaria should be extremely active on it, is the topic of defence, security and migration, and, as it is written in the draft decision, agreeing to finalise the reform of a common European asylum system is an extremely important element for dealing with the refugee crisis, which arose a few years ago and, of course, no universal solution has been found, and the Bulgarian side very rightly places the adoption of a revised Dublin regulation, focusing on the implementation of targeted measures to prevent illegal migration and human trafficking. I would just like to put another emphasis on the fact that the EU's communication towards the European Security Programme in the field of the fight against terrorism and laying the foundations for an effective and genuine European Union of security, the document being made in response to terrorist attacks in Paris and Brussels in 2015 and 2016 and includes extremely serious measures in the fight against terrorism, which should be implemented even more actively. Implementation of this communication means that the key to successfully countering the terrorist threat and challenges associated with serious and organised crime is the effective use of EU information systems and databases. This means building a new architecture of the information moment, which is currently a top priority for several presidencies, including Bulgarian. It is this national fund that is the reason to include this topic in today's decision, such as the mutual compatibility pursued, that aims to allow optimal use of available information and a high quality, high level of information exchange, and there is strong political will at European Union level to quickly finalise this dossier, which we hope will reach the Council's overall quota. Of course, and just to remind you that, at the end of 2016, the European Commission provided a legislative package for reforming the Schengen Information System, which includes three proposals for........................................................ the Schengen Information System................................................................................................................................................................................... The amendments will give greater use of biometric data, as well as new categories of signals. The goal is the larger and often used system to acquire new functionalities and increase its efficiency. A dialogue has been started with the European Parliament on these files, which the Bulgarian Presidency will seek to conclude. This is precisely why I believe that it is important to support the proposed draft decision so that Bulgaria can be a serious part of the future and secure future of the European Union. I apologize for the tautology. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Come in for a cue, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, you are talking about European security, migration, human trafficking. How exactly do these fine words of yours fit with the facts? And the fact is that a regional leader of a party that supports this majority, before the court recognizes and concludes an agreement with the prosecution that sewers and organises trafficking of refugees. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u18	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr Hamid, this topic has not been identified as extremely important for the Bulgarian Presidency for a reason. Of course, as indicated, these actions must continue after the Presidency. I think the question thus asked should rather be asked to the ruling majority. In the end, the opposition cannot hold responsibility, hold account and conduct an investigation, whether it be for human trafficking. Our job is to ask the Minister for appropriate answers during parliamentary control, of course, if there is such an investigation. I can't keep up with him. I hope those responsible will be punished. After all, we are looking today for the adoption of a decision with an extremely large consensus by the National Assembly, which can present Bulgaria in the best light during the Presidency and in its completion. I hope that these moments that darken it will not be part of it, and I believe that these data that you have exported are ultimately false. Thank you. [[Laughter and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u20	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The debate on the future of Europe is inevitably also related to this debate on the future of Bulgaria, as it is naive to think that we can change Europe. What we can do is change ourselves and be part of Europe, change it too, because by changing our judiciary, our security system, we are changing Europe, and the problems of Europe and Bulgaria today are quite similar and we are solving them in a very similar way. In fact, we have to admit that both Bulgaria and Europe are focusing their efforts mainly on the consequences of a problem and not against its reasons, because if we give an example of demography, lack of labour, Bulgaria is putting labour outside, it is an inevitable solution, but citizens see that it is the result of decades of inaction and weakness in politics. Europe is doing something very similar. After all, real politics and the real economy have been replaced by bureaucracy and technocracy, and all these problems are reflected precisely on the citizen, the ordinary European. This is the soil where hatred and nationalism thrive. At this door are the enemies of Europe. It is the same in Bulgaria as we eat each other on the same door and the enemies of Bulgaria. We are still talking about the problems with a raised Brussels tone and I wish that during the Bulgarian Presidency the problems should be spoken clearly and openly because neither Brexit nor referendums nor euroscepticism are the problems of Europe. They are only the consequences of these problems. And we're still talking with powdered Brussels talking: we are Europe, Europe is in us, Europe comes out stronger every time! To me, that sounds like speeches I've only seen on the Internet about the Soviet Union. And it is time to openly tell ourselves what Europe's problems are, so that we can start making the right decisions, because in the past, the founding fathers of Europe, founded the Union on the free economic initiative on the real economy, the trade in coal and steel, on this basis, which in itself was not a goal, Europe built peace and prosperity. This is where the values come in. Today, this foundation has been replaced by bureaucracy and technocraticism. On this basis, there is no way for Europe to continue in the future, and in the future we expect bigger challenges than ever, because artificial intelligence and economy 4.0, industrialisation 4.0, will change the world and they will change it faster than ever. In less than 20 years, artificial intelligence will take over the jobs of many. Social problems and inequalities as we know them now will not be the same. What awaits us in the future and these problems that we have at the moment will be seen as child's play. Are we ready for this future? Europe has lost many of its strong positions in the field of high technology. Until recently, every person on the planet used European phones, European software with a European operating system. Today, if we reach into our pockets, we will all take out other phones with other operating systems, namely operating systems, none of which are European, are the basis on which artificial intelligence is built, and artificial intelligence is the inevitable future of the world, for better or for worse. In this area, Europe has lost real positions. We do not have this debate in Europe, we do not have it in Bulgaria. How will we respond in Bulgaria to these challenges in education? Because as we study today, the labor market in ten years will not want what we are preparing for today. So I wish we could talk more openly about Europe's problems, and precisely because I am convinced of the European idea and it hurts me for what is happening, which is why I hope that we will start talking openly about these problems. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. A line? Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam Minister! Mr. Bojankov, I congratulate you on your speech. You have read very well the draft decision that we have tabled. In the Project, your parliamentary group has signed, part of the colleagues, what you started with the nationalisms is missing, completely missing and removed. Therefore today, except in Europe, as you said, the future of Bulgaria is very important. We need to make sure that extreme nationalism, populism, extremism is dismantled. So you rightly pointed out that extreme nationalism...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u23	Kill us! [[Noise and lines.]] Can Madam President say such things? You have to break it. What kind of attack is this?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u24	Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u25	...must fall into the Decision Project and we will propose that you support our Decision Project. Again, I congratulate you on your speech. [[Relations of MP Stanislav Stanilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u26	Second line?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u27	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u28	Wait just a second line and I'll give you a way to conduct. There's no second line. A hole? There won't be a hole. Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u29	Over 300,000 people voted for the nationalist faction in parliament. People are coming out on this stand and they're talking about fighting us, that they're gonna take us down, that they're gonna kick us out. Start shooting us, it'll all work out. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Stanilov. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Hamid, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u31	Madam President, please do not allow this tribune to call Members of Parliament, or anyone, to commit a crime, and one of the most violent crimes of all to be committed, to murder. Get in there! Get in there! I know you're not a psychiatrist, but do something about it. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u32	I ask you to treat each other with respect, because we are, after all, MPs and we need to show some attitude to each other that is not aggressive. Here you are, Mr. Petrov, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u33	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Leader. Every time I come to this stand, I'm talking about either spectators or shows, or I'm confusing the minister with the chairman. Please excuse me, and let me...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u34	You're excited maybe a little bit more.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u35	...in such a style our universal work for the good of Bulgaria will take place. I will not pay attention to such bickering on the part of one of the parties, which, unfortunately, will soon not be seen in power. I would rather use this tribune to tell the leadership here there are some people from the leadership of this party that it is not a good sign when European commissioners come, high-ranking European officials come to them and to speak some nonsense about our patriotic formation. That's not good. It doesn't make us look good. With regard to the decision made by our Assembly and with regard to the debates that were taking place in the formation of this decision, I can say that it has flowed in a very constructive style. Of course, there were initially contradictions as to how to look like this solution. After all, the President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds has made a significant contribution to making our Assembly consolidated and to come up with one support for the programme proposed for our Presidency. In this regard, I would also like to say that in our National Assembly there is a well-functioning young team working together with the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. I can reassure Mr. Bojankov that the team meets all the standards required for an electronization, digitalization in the information service not only of the members of our Commission, but also of other members of the National Assembly. If they want, they will be able to obtain information quickly and accurately on any matter. I'd like to thank Mrs. Nelly Kardashlieva, if she's here, and her associates. They work very well. I would also like to say that Bulgaria is being taken very seriously and I am very pleased about this Presidency. Because until a few months ago, not to say a year ago, people with ridicule treated the Presidency as something that some intelligent people with ties are talking about, and it is extremely important for our country. I am convinced, I am sure that after this Presidency, we will all witness the country's faster and more intensive economic development. I am convinced of this thing, including in a very good preparation that we will also do in relation to 2019. The Year of Culture. This will also be a very good start for Bulgaria to come out of this state, in which it is now, and to join the countries that quickly and effectively benefit from being in the European Union. Our patriotic faction in the National Assembly fully supports the European development of Bulgaria. Of course, let me remind the Members of the National Assembly what the European Union originally intended. He'll be a Union of Nations. If there is no good national protection of interests in each of the structures of the European Union, it will not function well. And it is very important in our country that there is such a nationalist organization that, of course, differs significantly from these idle structures.. I call them that, in the Netherlands, in England. A half-crazy man who conducted this campaign to get his country out of the European Union, and showing that he was half-crazy, the next day he fled the political scene. In Bulgaria this is not the case. Unfortunately, to our opponents, I do not say: enemies. Party DPS cannot be an enemy. They're our opponents, our political opponents, so this has to be clear and precise. I would like to stress here that the turn that made the Ministry for European Presidency in the priorities, in the Programme of Bulgaria, and that we should now have this solution... I have simply expressed my amazement from what Mrs Denitsa had presented to us who she was, I forgot. [[Laughter and raging]] , from the former Vice President, who had confused and presented us the program of the trio as a program of Bulgaria, a project for Bulgaria. And I said to her, "Be, Mrs. Denitsa, I don't know who you are, what do you think we are here for? [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u36	Zlateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u37	We don't graze. You are presenting us with another report. I think in Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova's face we have a man who is really a minister... Tell me, someone to check: how many countries has there been a ministry to deal with so far, and that's all? [[(Reply from DPS: "This is the biggest success, eval!" (Laughter and excitement in the BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.)]] I won't. Can you imagine, here, look at people who barely know the Presidency and its meaning, are laughing at me here. [[Laughs]] It's very funny! [[Laughter and excitement.]] It's very funny. Give it, take it, meet what it's about and you'll find it less funny. In this regard, I would like to say that what has been put as a focus, namely the inclusion of the Western Balkans, is very important for us, because we have no interest as a member of the European Union, to have some poor, naked people around us, and we need some emerging economies around us. Therefore, our opinion is to support as a group, as a faction in the National Assembly all actions, decisions of the government. Dear fellow Members, unlike our Constitution, the Constitution of the European Union is slightly different. There, executive power plays a much more important role and a much more serious role in promoting European policies. Let's take a little attitude towards the young colleague. [[noise, laughter and excitement by BSP for Bulgaria and DPS]] who spoke before me. Let it be so. Just like that, when we laugh, this is how the National Assembly should function, not hate, not shoot, and not such things. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Mr. Bojankov, now let me tell you... The man really well, a young man is, let's do an electronization here, digitization. That it costs several billion euros, and we're going to find it, seven-eight billion euros, and we're making the e-government, right? It's okay. But let me tell you, and now you will become a little more serious, at this meeting of the KOSAC in Tallinn, I was very impressed by the host organisation, namely that when one of the main priorities of their Presidency for digital Europe was reported, they had not invited the commissioner responsible for this. Can you imagine? [[Noise and lines.]] The European Commissioner for Digital Policy is missing when such important issues are discussed at the highest forum in Tallinn?! This thing shows an attitude, a little bit like these gentlemen laughing out front. A little more money and they're having fun. They don't care about the presidency or anything. So they also showed the same attitude the Estonians went a little further into a sphere, a country that has no population as the center of Sofia here and some more central regions, but with great self-esteem, have not invited... This thing can't happen. The other thing about security. Dear delegates - future, in such forums, be careful when entering the buses in Tallinn. [[Loud laugh]] . In Tallinn, we get into the buses and no one checks us out. Nobody! [[Loud laughter.]] Can you imagine?! This must not happen during our Presidency. I've been traveling all the time. Our bus is going to get to its destination. [[Loud laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u38	Mr. Petrov, please! [[Loud laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u39	Let us end with this laughter and thus continue to support our Presidency, to support our minister. I'm glad you two could focus on the speaker on the stands. Thank you very much. [[(Loud applause. Announcements from BSP for Bulgaria: More! More!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u40	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. You've managed to raise the mood rate in the room. Are there any lines to Mr. Petrov's statement? I won't. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u41	Dear Madam President, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have a big request for you, Madam President, in violation of the regulations. Ask Mr. Petrov to repeat his basics one more time, because I couldn't write them down. Thank you. [[Laughter and excitement in the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u42	There's a transcript that you can use and take out the basics from Mr. Petrov's statement. [[The National Representative Petar Petrov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] There's no personal explanation. It was procedure, Mr. Petrov. Better in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u43	You can't do it the way you do it after making people smile in this room. My colleague can't come out of my electoral district after that and speak negatively against someone with whom he will want to make decisions about Sliven region tomorrow. I didn't speak the other day when the same colleague who knows farm production from the meat market...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u44	Please, in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u45	The way to conduct is that I did not get to make a remark to him when I found out that he did not know that the Agricultural and Food Fund was part of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. It is my fault that I am talking about the budget of the Ministry, not the State Fund. So the way you're leading it. At times like this, you have to turn off the microphone because it interferes with normal work. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo, bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u46	One more procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Madame Minister, colleagues! I asked for a procedure in the manner of conduct, because you were presiding a long time ago. Today you're the host...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u48	She's the chairman, not the host.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u49	No, a leader, according to what my colleague said. I say it purely human. There's a shorthand and it can be checked. Madam President, I ask you to keep an eye on the address to the leading "You are holding the meeting of the parliament, but the address to you is accepted to be the President, Mr President, even if it is one of your deputies, so that there are no misunderstandings, and also to minimize the place that you occupy as President of the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u50	Thank you, Mr. Panchev. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u51	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Minister, honourable Members! I would like to draw attention to the content of today's discussion from a certain point of view. We are not discussing the common problems of the European Union and Bulgaria's place in it. Of course, the new technologies have a place and we are discussing two projects for a position on the Project of the Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria. I would like to emphasise from the outset that it is not natural on this issue to have two draft decisions. To a certain extent, though not in detail, I am familiar with the course of the conversation. It seems to me that we, as Parliament, had an idea to have a draft decision. Today, fellow Members from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are importing their draft decision, which means that our colleagues have substantial objections to the text submitted by the Commission. The issue is not simple because it seems to me that if the Bulgarian National Assembly should adopt a decision on this important issue for the Programme and for the Presidency, it should be within a single decision. If we come here today to a vote to reject one draft decision and to approve the other, then all the declarations that are issued by the executive and representatives of the legislative assembly for the general understanding, for the consensus, for the general political views on these issues, I think they hang without any particular arguments. Therefore, my call is to look for an option in which today the Bulgarian National Assembly will adopt a draft decision. I've been familiar with both texts. There are two paragraphs in the texts, two findings that distinguish between the two texts. In essence, the texts of the draft decision are identical. What, though, do the two texts differ? In the context of the draft decision submitted by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, particular attention shall be paid to the Member States' obligation to develop and promote respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all. I don't see what objections anyone might have to integrate such a text into the Decision Project. First, this is a text literally copied by the Bulgarian Constitution, which is based in this respect on a number of international documents. I cannot understand the Commission which has examined the projects for what reasons it may reject the adoption of such a text. Secondly, as the text is proposed, it seems appropriate to add citizens' rights to human rights. I, too, am among those MPs who are flocking that, in the political situation of today's Europe, the rights of citizens and of human beings are seriously threatened. It seems to me that the special place that is set aside in the Project for a Decision of the European Social Model "Education, Youth and Culture" cannot be separated from the issue of citizens' rights. I am convinced that no social rights in Europe can be realised unless civil and human rights are realised. Historically, this issue arose just like this. There can be no social rights in the European Union and no social pillar can be realised, and I do not see why these issues should be artificially divided in the text. Because aggravated civil rights, violation of the fundamentals of civil rights means lowering the role of the constitutions of individual countries that make up the European Union. It seems to me that this is the fundamental issue of today's political tensions in Europe. Because by striving for the realization of values without the realization of rights we have come to this situation. The second issue, which deserves attention in the draft of colleagues from the European Parliament's Committee on Rights and Freedoms, is in relation to regional cooperation. We have focused here on a priority of the Western Balkans. We have all heard how much the Bulgarian state can do in the period of the presidency for the Western Balkans. It seems to me that we can see at the Presidency's final what can be done for the Western Balkans and then give a general assessment of our approach. Colleagues have raised an important issue about the negotiation process between the European Union and Turkey. If we raise the issue at all about Bulgaria's regional role during the Presidency, it seems to me that we should have a position on the negotiations between the European Union and Turkey. The suspension of negotiations between the European Union and Turkey poses more danger to Bulgaria than the current state of the Western Balkans. And if someone doesn't realize the gravity of these processes, their relative weight, they should think about it well. Therefore, it seems to me that it is purely meaningful, logical and politically correct for the Bulgarian Parliament today to adopt a draft decision. I do not see any reason for the Bulgarian Parliament to first appear with two decisions, and secondly, the proposals proposed by the colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and to be excluded from the general text. For me, they give fullness to the Solution Project and every other approach shows some tendency. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u52	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Any lines to the statement? I can't see. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend today's meeting before the parliamentary control until the adoption of item seven of our weekly programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u54	Including or without the dot? Speculate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u55	Including until its adoption, and then move on to parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u56	We are voting on a procedural proposal to extend the time before parliamentary control until the adoption of item seven. They voted 121 MPs: 108, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Let's get back to work. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Madame Minister, colleagues! During the last two exceptional, tiring and exhausting parliamentary days, we have often unjustly been accused of destructive opposition behaviour in the couloirs. The decision we are about to take today is proof of the beneficial and constructive nature of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, especially when we are talking about the development of important topics for Bulgaria and their discussion in the Supreme Authority of each parliamentary republic. Today I would like to sharpen the attention of the respected audience and the public representation on the widely advertised priority during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Western Balkans integration process. History shows that there can be no prosperous and sustainable Europe when there are troubled and poorly developing countries in the Balkans. History also shows that while a country is not associated, the entire region may be at risk. I'm asking for an extension of time. While it is difficult for me to agree with the Prime Minister's view that the Western Balkans could replace Britain by making it difficult for me to make a geographical, demographic or economic parallel, it is true, however, that the Union can benefit from the inclusion of the Western Balkans a process that strengthens the achievements of the continent. Bulgaria borders both Turkey and the Western Balkans and is obliged to play a constructive role in the integration processes of these countries. Within the framework of our Presidency, we have a real opportunity and a special responsibility to have a positive impact on the European Union's policy towards our region and, in particular, on the Western Balkans. Initiatives are needed aimed at serious progress towards the accession of the countries of this region. Often in the speeches of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the objectives during our presidency related to the integration of the Balkans are a little foggy. We are talking about a number of meetings in different formats, but these meetings can be nothing but an instrument and policies for achieving these goals, and that is why the Bulgarian Socialist Party offers concrete political initiatives to support the integration process of the Western Balkans. First, to be heard by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the National Assembly on the topic of the European perspective of the countries of the Western Balkans; to instruct the Minister of Transport to develop an analysis of how the common European connectivity and the major infrastructure projects can contribute to the construction of the missing sections of the European transport corridors in Bulgarian territory; to provide support for more youth exchange programmes and contacts between the civil sector in the hopes that they will help eliminate some of the bad memories of the wars that devastated the Balkan Peninsula 25 years ago; to adopt a Sofia declaration during the Western Balkan Summit, and, of course, what Mr. Zablyanov, the Vice-President, mentioned also mentioned, maintaining a permanent dialogue with Turkey, coordinating with the Union with a view to addressing the risks to the region contained in the turbulence development of its internal political processes. It seems to me that these are initiatives that could turn Bulgaria from a passive observer who only registers the processes that every country of the Western Balkans realizes in terms of progress, in an active participant of their integration processes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Hamid, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable MPs! Let me, first of all, congratulate Mr. Zablyanov on his true European position. This is how a decision is made in the Bulgarian Parliament and, unfortunately, the most important accent is missed by the project submitted by the majority. Colleagues, this project is the result of a targeted cutting of the 18-month programme of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union for Estonia All of this, fellow Members, is done with one single goal.. legitimization of nationalists in power. For the DPS, however, the issue is very complex and serious. We have presented our principled position with a project submitted by us. The Presidency is a chance for Bulgaria worthy of fulfilling our mission and defining the agenda of the European Union, but not just formally, but with our pro-active role. We, as a party, have made a small contribution to Bulgaria's membership in the European Union and NATO with our consistent policy since 1990. Facts: There is only one party in this House that can invoke a significant contribution to Bulgaria's accession process to NATO and the European Union and this is the DPS. Even when the Warsaw Treaty was in operation, here, from this House, the DPS clearly and categorically expressed its position on the location of Bulgaria - NATO and the European Union. This Euro-Atlantic orientation is also embedded in our statutes, colleagues, and our positions in parliament since 1990 have been reflected in the stenograms. This position is consistent in all these years, and we will not give up on this position. Why in the European Union, fellow Members? Because of the fundamental values that this Union was created to protect. Because the values of the European Union are also our values and they must be values of our whole society. Human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, rule of law, the protection of human rights, the right to a decent life, freedom of speech, the right to information, freedom of movement are fundamental values of the Union, together with the modern understanding of democracy, to respect the rights and interests of minorities and their protection. We will not give in to the values of the European Union and we will continue to work for a united Union of prosperity, solidarity and security. A prerequisite for this is our active participation in the preservation of peace, our work for the successful resolution of the problem of migration and the prevention of radicalisation and extremism. The latter, set out as the objective of the 18-month programme of the Presidency from 1 July 2017 to 31 December 2018. The three presidencies aim to adopt a comprehensive, integrated approach to preventing violent extremism, focusing on the role of education, intercultural dialogue, respect for and protection of common values, fundamental rights and freedoms and the rule of law. In this sense, we made our proposal to the National Assembly with our project, but apparently the colleagues from GERB and the majority are against it. Taking into account the strengthened role of the national parliaments following the Lisbon Treaty in forming and implementing the leading priorities of the European Day Renewal, we proposed to the National Assembly that the Council of Ministers should include several things in the Programme. It seems, however, that colleagues are opposed to taking into account the place of parliament in the parliamentary republic and giving up their role in the formation and implementation of leading priorities on the European agenda. The participation of nationalists in power is incompatible with the European values and the frayed project, colleagues who are importing the majority, is proof of this. Democratic Europe is constantly giving us examples of how we should counter the nationalist wave and not allow nationalisms and radicalisms in power. Just days ago, the European Union reminded us that we must learn from historical lessons and not repeat fatally the mistakes of the past. We must realise and know very well what it means in the context of Balkan geopolitics. It is high time to heed and look at these counsels and examples. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Within the parliamentary dimension of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union last week, we welcomed the President of the European Parliament together with representatives of political groups in the European Parliament. However, this high event was not attended by presidents of all the political groups in the European Parliament, as has been the practice so far. The presidents of all the system parties were absent from the EPP, the PES, the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (ALDE). This, my fellow Members, is the European Union's clear assessment of the participation of nationalists in power. This is a fact, and whether you acknowledge it or not, you cannot change that fact. Members of Parliament, if there are other real Europeans like Mr. Zablyanov in this House, you should support our draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u60	Are there any lines to the statement? Mr. Angelov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u61	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Hamid, how can we believe the sincere position of the DPS that DPS protects human rights, that it fights for minority rights and everything else, that you are hardly the greatest defenders of these rights and freedoms at all, provided that your parliamentary groups and your MPs and parliamentary committees, and in this Chamber, when it comes to the Bulgarian communities abroad and specific laws relating to them, when it comes to Bulgarian minorities abroad, and when it comes to respecting their rights or ensuring more rights and opportunities from the Bulgarian state to these communities and minorities, you, your group and your people's representatives have always voted or abstained, or do not vote to believe that you are sincere and that you are truly fighters for the rights and freedoms of minorities and human rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u62	Stop lying!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u63	Come out and disprove me, give me examples. Take out the printouts and you'll see both on committees and in the hall. This behavior is hypocritical on the part of the DPS. You cannot talk about the rights and freedoms of minorities and of people and do not support the rights and freedoms of Bulgarian communities abroad and Bulgarian minorities abroad. This is unacceptable! The rhetoric you have used in recent months for nationalism is how bad it is and how Europe is just your conversations. No one in Europe suffers that the DPS is not in power in Bulgaria. No one in Europe suffers that the United Patriarchs participate in the management of Bulgaria. We prove that with our participation in management we achieve the right policies for the Bulgarian state. If Europe were against it, Mr Tajani would not come and give a speech in the Bulgarian Parliament. So don't twist the facts!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u64	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Second line please, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr Hamid, we have listened enough to those of the DPS, which you repeated once again, for the hundredth time and for the thousandth time in the Bulgarian Parliament. Of course, it is only a figment of your fantasy.. those of extreme nationalism, of xenophobia, of almost fascist and Nazi parties in the Bulgarian Parliament, something that, of course, does not correspond to the truth. You know very well that the parties that belong to our coalition are recognized by their European partners. You know very well that in the European Parliament our representative is a member of the group of European Conservatives and Reformists. Even better you know that in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the two representatives of the Council of Europe are also part of the Conservative Group. I mean, I don't see any logic or any truth in what you're constantly claiming to be xenophobics and extreme nationalists. Since the DPS seemed to interpret the words of Tajani as the devil reads the gospel, the President of the European Parliament very well expressed his support for the policy of the current government and especially in the direction of the actions against the migrant crisis, and you know which political formation was the biggest wrestler Bulgaria to be able to defend its national sovereignty and not allow the influx of illegal migrants in Bulgaria. You can talk to each other any way you want and develop your own, but neither the Bulgarian society nor Europe can convince you of what you claim. Yet Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic, and you are part of the democratic parties in our country, as you say. The Bulgarian electoral, His Majesty the Bulgarian electoral, has the right to decide who will be in parliament and who will not. Once again, your parents are false, false, and do not respond in any way to the truth. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u66	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. A line? Here's a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hamid, I simply ask you to remind colleagues who, at some point, want to experience catharsis and become freedom fighters, but before that they must explain the shoving of our mothers along the border, the marches that are being carried out as Lukov is already a Bulgarian march, and at the next moment to explain to them that yes, Europe is not suffering because the DPS is not in power, but suffers because the nationalists are in power. That's the main difference! That's what you don't understand! If this is something they see happening in Germany, in Austria and they don't understand it, please, Mr Hamid, explain it to them because they won't understand it. Thank you. [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u68	Mr. Letifov, we had reason to explain what the line is. You have turned with one consent and an invitation to take an attitude. I'll give it a chance, of course, but really stick to the rules, because...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u69	You too! I want the word in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u70	Come in the manner of conduct. [[Replications from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u71	Mr. Chairman, I understand your desire to protect your group, but you are now the chairman of all of us. You can't take attitude within the meaning of what I said. I turned to Mr. Hamid and made a line for him. The creature is not your duty, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u72	That's how you understand. [[The National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] Just a moment, Mr. Alexandrov. Let's finish the procedure with the backrest and then you'll have a chance. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Bogdanov, the President of the European Parliament Mr. Tajani has been elected by one majority between the EPP and ALDE in the European Parliament, where we are actively involved. This majority, unlike yours, is based on European values and it should be. That's why Mr. Tajani was here. But the assessment that all the presidents of political groups gave, where was the Chairman of the EPP, where was the Chairman of the PES, where was the Chairman of ALDE? They're gone. That's what I said. Those are the facts. Mr. Angelov, what DPS does for the rights of Bulgarian citizens we have proved since 1990. These are indisputable facts, and no one can question them, so there is nothing to talk about them. [[Noise and lines by the United Patriarchs.]] You cannot speak from here untruths that we do not support Bulgarians abroad, as well as Bulgarian citizens, no matter what ethnicity they are, outside Bulgaria. You are the ones who restricted and took away the rights of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens in Chicago, who because of you did not have the opportunity to vote. This is your fault and it will be on your conscience, Mr. Angelov. [[Applause from DPS.]] Don't talk to me about hypocrisy, because duplicity is that you signed this decision. You are talking about the Western Balkans, about inclusion, you are organizing and participating in marches in which you are claiming to the borders of modern Europe and the borders of the Balkans, which hundreds of thousands of citizens of neighbouring countries are already asking this question, as well as all European ambassadors. But, colleagues from GERB, congratulations to these partners again!. [[(Voices from DPS:) Bravo! Bravo! (Applause)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u74	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Mr. Alexandrov, please come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! Mr. President, I appeal to you, as well as to all the leadership of the National Assembly, as we, as MPs, have voted for you, to represent us as the first among equals. This means that you should therefore approach us all with the same method, and when a Member of the National Assembly makes a reply which almost essentially copys what is written in the Rules, but in its essence is not a replica, please do not let it be interrupted and please do not allow it to be addressed to the entire management of the National Assembly, a language that will cause hatred, tension and division in the Bulgarian society and in the Bulgarian political life. Thank you. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u76	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u77	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I wanted to start in another way, but obviously the debate will be focused on why we have objections to the proposals of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. First of all, I would like to say that with this decision, which we have tabled from all four parliamentary groups, except for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, our aim was to make the contribution of the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian parliamentarians to the final version of the Bulgarian Presidency Programme, which will be adopted next week in the Council of Ministers. With her in the Decision, we have tabled many topics that have already been read twice, and I think we have the contribution we have sought. I mean, the priorities that are presented should not be accepted as national. What we are doing today is as MPs to give the contribution to the Bulgarian Parliament, I repeat, to the European Union's daily agenda for the next six months. Bulgaria is part of the Trio in the 18-month period.. Estonia, Bulgaria, Austria, and this program of the Trio was adopted in June, on 20 June, by the Council.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I want the actual final priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency to be said today, because we have not yet articulated them. This is Europe's future and young people's future and economic growth and social cohesion...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These are the four main priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. On this topic, I will only say that Bulgaria will work in the direction as it is indicated in the motto of the Bulgarian Presidency, namely the Union makes the force and hopefully we here internally during the Presidency and by the end of the period of the Trio, by the end of 2018 can implement this direction. The European Union must continue to support the common European ideas as set out in the Rome Declaration and it was then signed by President Rumen Radev. The principles that are laid down in it should remain leading to European integration, and this will be our goal during the Presidency. I cannot fail to say a few words about the Western Balkans, because the Bulgarian government, during the entire period of negotiations of the Trio programme, made it possible in Bulgaria to have a summit of the European Union in the Western Balkans. A great deal of effort has been put into this, despite the ambiguity of what we will actually achieve during this meeting. Our task during the Presidency on the topic "Western Balkans" will be to take into account the progress of each country of the six countries, of which not all have even candidate status, and to motivate the European Union to take the political decision to continue this process after our Presidency, stressing that the process is based on the fulfilment of the conditions and principle of the own merit of each country. However, it should not be so that, once these criteria are met, the deadlines for entry into the European Union are extended. It is particularly important for us to preserve the new stage of development of transport, communication, energy and infrastructure connectivity of the Western Balkans region as part of Europe, which actually started during the Berlin process and then continued with the "Berlin plus" in Italy, in Trieste. I would also like to stress that all initiatives of the Bulgarian Presidency regarding the Western Balkans will take into account the dynamics of the processes in the European Union, namely the communication of the European Commission on the Western Balkans and the so-called Strategy for the Western Balkans. It is expected to come out in February 2018, as well as the enlargement package, which will include the progress of each country and we are waiting for it in April. I will not affect the subject of the Dublin regulation because it has already been said, but I will only say that the European Parliament has adopted by a majority the changes already set out in the Dublin regulation. They will be finalized during our Presidency and it is important to unite around them because they are for the benefit of Bulgaria as a country - external border of the European Union. Regarding the proposals of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and I am first surprised that this project was subsequently tabled after the other project was addressed to the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the representative of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in the Commission, after we have argued against all the proposals on your part, the overall text that we are proposing on our part was supported. That is, Mrs. Mehmedova supported the final text we proposed. I mean, the final text has been discussed for nearly three weeks. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms had the opportunity to very carefully enter the texts and, if there was a desire, to find an opportunity to agree differently and not in the way that is currently being obtained. I would like to say that it is unnecessary in the context of the decision to quote texts from the Programme of the Trio of Estonia, Bulgaria, Austria. By the way, such text is also available in art. 1 of the Lisbon Treaty. We know all these texts and implement them, but they do not need to be re-inserted in the Programme of the Bulgarian Presidency. It is true that Turkey has been negotiating with the European Union since 2005, but the events of July 2016 have changed the domestic political situation, as well as Turkey's relations with the European Union. At the same time, let us not forget that the focus of the Bulgarian Presidency are the Western Balkans. As I said, we have made great efforts for the summit to be on this particular subject. Regarding the proposal to adopt a final document from the forthcoming Turkish Summit, as I said, the summit is not for Turkey, it is for relations between the European Union and the Western Balkans, it should be borne in mind that, within the framework of the European Union-Turkey Political Dialogue Summit, which took place on 25 July of this year, the commitment to the implementation of the Statement was confirmed During the last meeting of the European Council in October, a debate on the European Union was held again. The European Union expects Turkey to respect the highest standards in terms of democracy, rule of law and respect for fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression. In this context, the European Union has a commitment to continue its work in this direction and to report regularly on the progress made between the European Union and Turkey and the negotiations with Turkey. We will also have the opportunity to address Turkey in relation to the Black Sea region during the meetings of our parliamentary dimension. Security in the Black Sea region is not a small issue and Turkey is seriously involved in it, as well as cooperation between the European Union and NATO. Regarding the proposal to include a text on a Bulgarian ethnic model in your decision, I would like to stress that the stability of the Bulgarian ethnic model depends on all national parties. Therefore, it seems to me that the incorporation of such a text, which does not concern common European policies and objectives, is not appropriate in this case. This is our national model, which was developed and successful during the transition, and is successful in the context of the Bulgarian internal-political situation. I have nothing against all the texts that you have proposed, I have nothing against the way they have been proposed and that their place is not in this kind of documents. Otherwise, we can, as the National Assembly, make appropriate decisions to accept another kind of document in which your proposals can be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mr. Zarkov, for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Dear Mrs. Grozdanova, I take a line to highlight a topic before you and to the main factors that will move the Bulgarian Presidency and for which I think we do not even talk enough in this important debate for Parliament. This topic is addressed in the Decision we are talking about, but sporadic. We are talking about the topic of significantly lower than the European Council average remuneration in some countries, including Bulgaria. Why am I saying this and why am I saying this now? In the Decision, this is mentioned in the context of the changes to the directive on the posting of workers, an important topic. But, in fact, we must use this Presidency to convey a message that is already well understood enough throughout Europe, namely that the huge differences in payments are ultimately the big problem facing Europe, and in each of the topics we are discussing here today, from the rise of nationalism in different countries, through Brexit to the inability to find a common mechanism for the dislocation of refugees, there is one problem, namely that in some countries payments and levels of life are many times lower than others. This leads to internal migration, which in turn creates a tendency to encapsulate, which can lead to exit of any nature.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u80	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are there any others willing to replicate, Mrs. Grozdanova? I can't see. Here you go, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u81	Dear Mr. Zarkov, I do not see any connection between your line and my statement, except that I have not touched on this subject in it. It is true that the program has in some way affected the subject, but I believe that the priority of the BSP is to further develop it. I don't mind her, but I don't see the point in the line you made me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. The question of the form of a replica remains controversial. You see, it is difficult for the speaker to duplicate such lines. I'm going back to the meeting today. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor to speak. [[Noise.]] Mr. Tsonev, I'm sorry, let me ask my colleagues... Excuse me, my colleagues, at the bottom of the room, the discussion club, please take your seats, if this conversation is important, continue outside. Please take your seats. Excuse me, Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, thank you. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Madam Minister, Minister! We are pleased with the direction of this debate because it has begun to become clear what the DPS is proposing and why it is proposing it. I will start from where it ended, the honourable Mrs. Grozdanova, that she does not like the way we have proposed things, and we, Mrs. Grozdanova, do not like the way you have proposed this document and the way in which the entire debate and dialogue on the Presidency has taken place. I return to the establishment of this National Assembly. The DPS belonged to the idea that we said in the Prime Minister's talks that it is important for the Presidency that all priorities be drawn up by consensus and that this Commission should therefore be on a monetary basis. Your proposal to the majority was not to be on a parietal principle. You accepted it, you accepted our proposal, and that's where the dialogue ended. You are now quoting that the 18-month Programme has already been adopted and proposals of this kind cannot be imported into it. We wanted to have a dialogue before it was made and this dialogue to be here in the National Assembly, so that we could tell each other all our opinions, all the parliamentary parties represented to discuss and argue... And not now with a declaration that we want to say to the Bulgarian government: no matter what our differences, it does not matter that you did not hear what we want to say about the priorities of the Bulgarian government, about our national interest, in the context of our European interest. Never mind, we are telling you that we will be with you throughout the Presidency, because that is the way it should be. You can't get that. When you say you disagree, we disagree. If we have now reached this debate and two declarations, the reason is precisely the approach. All this could have found a place before the establishment of the priorities of the 18-month Presidency, but such a debate, Mr Vigenin, was there here in plenary? Members of the BSP, was there such a consensus? I wasn't! It is only in the Commission that when something needs to be worked out, a debate begins. So much for that. Why does the DPS offer this focus in our Presidency? Because this is how we understand the Presidency, except that we will implement all the common European priorities, except that we will follow the common European line, each Presidency must have a particular emphasis that reflects both national and regional interest and the regional and national aspect of EU membership. Who is the Bulgarian interest? The Bulgarian interest, first of all, is the stability of the region, besides the stability of Bulgaria, of course. The stability of Bulgaria depends on the stability of the region. We do not live like Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic in Central Europe, where everything is okay and are surrounded by other European countries. We live in a region which, until yesterday and today, is called a baruten funeral of Europe. Unfortunately, we don't want to, but it's a fact. In this region, with whom are we surrounded by the Black Sea and Russia, with which NATO has problems?! With the Republic of Turkey, which is not a member of the European Union, with the Western Balkans, with Macedonia, one Romania and one Greece. Of course that's the trick. Why? I agree here that there is some focus for the Western Balkans, there is some emphasis and we even welcome the Prime Minister's efforts with regard to Macedonia. We have always welcomed these efforts and will continue to support them. Why are we putting Turkey in? Honorable colleagues, let us be properly understood.. Turkey is the largest economic, military force in Europe. Without stability in Turkey, without Turkey democratic and associated with European values, there can be no stability in the Balkans. This is a notoriously known fact... we do not need to discuss it at all. What do we want? We do not want to say in our Presidency that Turkey will be adopted in Europe. We want to focus Europe on continuing the negotiations, on continuing this co-operation mechanism, because it is a tool for the democratisation of Turkey, for the stabilisation of Turkey. Because what you said, the events of July and so... It is precisely in the context of these events that the negotiation process needs to continue. Right in the context! Therefore, we put this emphasis on no stability can exist without this. We don't put it in any other context. Nothing prevented us from discussing what form this should be written down, how to put it on the relevant forums, how to become part of our contribution to the stabilisation of our region. Europe, what stable Europe with these Balkans? What stable Europe with bad treatment with Turkey? What security in Europe? How are they going to decide... It is the same as telling Poland that Europe or NATO are not at all concerned about the problem with Russia that they have there. Poland will jump, not to tell you how far, but Poland defends its interest there with regard to its neighbour. What about us? So accept, first of all, the way we do it, as a consequence of the way you conducted these six months, the whole policy of drawing up a common position on Bulgaria's Presidency. Secondly, accept these things that we say as an expression of our concern for Bulgaria's contribution, for the Europeanisation of our region and as our concern that our country depends very much on these things. If you can today, and now, and at the moment, we are ready for editing, to include some of these proposals in another version or other form, but they must be included. They are our identity, they are our national interest in the context of our common European interest. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u84	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Any lines to Mr. Tsonev's statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! A lot has already been said, I will be as short as possible in BSP time, I will rather comment as President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. I think this discussion today is a big step forward in engaging the Bulgarian Parliament with European topics. Of course, it was largely disfocused, but it is inevitable to have strong political accents when we rarely deal with European topics. This is a reason and sometimes we do not know some of the main points and elements, not knowing exactly how to approach the problem and what is possible to actually achieve on this. That is why the debate is sometimes not so much about the content and focus of the document but, in principle, about our vision, both for the development of Bulgarian political life and generally for the future of the European Union. The topic of the future of the European Union was discussed in July at the initiative of the BSP and since then, indeed, the plenary has not been discussed, but I know that a position has recently been adopted by the government, and I hope that we will have an opportunity to comment on this soon. I, for a reason, probably bored not a bit of you by mentioning in the Commission's report on today's draft decision all the work that was done in the Bulgarian Parliament to get to this project. It is about the presentation of the draft Programme, the discussions in committees, the projects and the decisions proposed by the committees as a proposal to the Committee on European Affairs. From this point of view, I can say that one of the conditions that BSP had towards the government for seeking consensus on European topics, namely engaging the Bulgarian Parliament with this problem, is largely fulfilled. We may want more, but against the background of what was in the previous term of the National Assembly, I believe there is real progress. In fact, the Trio programme, when it was implemented, was not in any way discussed, coherent, was not informed the National Assembly, but it took place at that stage in the previous term of the National Assembly. Since the entry into the debate on the Bulgarian programme, I can say that there has been a very substantial dialogue between the government and the ministers and the committees, respectively, here in the National Assembly. I, with full consciousness, represent and defend this Project and on behalf of the BSP because I think we've done our job. If there have been proposals for what to be included in these texts, which we are discussing today, which are not declarations, I would like to draw attention to decisions of the National Assembly, which is a binding text binding to the National Assembly and to the Government, and through it to our role in the European Union, all these things could have been done in the committees. We do not have a proposal, for example, from the Committee on Foreign Policy, where there are a large number of representatives of the DPS to be included in the issue of Turkey, which, by the way, is a very toxic topic at the moment and I do not know if Bulgaria has the strength to deal with it as well. Personally, I don't think so. In the process of preparing this Project, which you have before you, at least at the beginning, every political force here of the five approaches presented in Parliament with the idea that we are looking for a consensus solution. Every single political force, on the one hand, has made its compromises in order to achieve this common text on priorities and on the other, with the understanding that this text is not, however, the least common multiple and there are many meaningful things in it where every single political force can recognise its priorities- On behalf of the BSP, I say that social issues that are particularly sensitive to us are seriously and deeply affected. There is even one topic that we do not have in our Project, if I am not mistaken, adopted by Congress, namely the stronger coordination of the health policies of the member states, which I think is important for everyone. I also note that in the initial approach, when we were preparing the joint project, we had proposals from the DPS that were included in the text. Subsequently, after this general text was proposed, colleagues decided to step out of this consensus and made new proposals that were no longer acceptable to everyone! So it came to this general text. I would like to draw attention to what Mrs Grozdanova said that this joint project presented by the Commission today was also supported by the Vice-President of the DPS in the Commission. I was surprised that then we saw a new Project. Of course, everyone has the right to approach as they see fit. And it is certainly important that this project provokes an important discussion on nationalism, radical movements and ideas, which, by the way, are not only nationalist, religious and others, on which I state and said in the Commission that the European Affairs Committee next year will deal explicitly with this issue. Because it threatens both Bulgaria and the region and the European Union. By the way, there is a proposal in the text from the DPS that relates to the idea that the fight against nationalist movements that threaten Europe must be guided, including through the possibilities and means of culture, and I thank the Minister for being here. With today's decision, we are trying to win territory for the National Assembly in this interinstitutional dialogue on European topics. Because, honourable Members, we, in practice as the National Assembly, are hardly present in this interinstitutional dialogue, at least until now. I will give you an example of Estonia, which is basically a country from Eastern Europe, we have moved around together. There, even the Prime Minister cannot go to a European Council meeting without prior approval by the Committee on European Affairs. And that is why we are doing it step by step and, in my opinion, if we prove that our Parliament today is capable of giving a competent opinion on the important issues of the development of the European Union, a decision by which we oblige the ministers to report it to the committees, we oblige the Prime Minister to inform the Parliament of the discussions in the European Council, I think we are taking a major step. Therefore, given the way this whole process has been going, I personally appeal to my colleagues from the DSS to support the decision proposed by the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. It is not contrary to their views unless we have had a misleading signal with the Commission's vote. And the other questions that I have commented on, I personally commit that they will also be in the focus of the Commission. But together we are ready to work out a General Declaration of the National Assembly, which on this basis will address the issues that you have adequately and seriously raised today. But, in my opinion, they don't belong in the decision on these matters. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u86	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u87	Mr. Vigenin, the draft decision proposed by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms includes a very important emphasis. This focus concerns the issue of the principles of structuring power in the context of world political development and of global processes which are undergoing a very complex phase of changing the model of political influence and restructuring geopolitics globally. Political forces worldwide redistribute and preparcel the world as both political influence and economic influence, and if you will, this phase includes within itself, including you see, and military maneuvers, military opposition in the Middle East. And any historical prerequisites relating to a formula of opposition to people living in these regions are used in order to plot influence. Including in the Bulgarian political space processes are under way [[Sighs right:..Search!..Search!.]] to plot political influence in terms of finding a balance between Russia, between the West and the East, and I believe that the DPS protects the national interest, Mr Vigenin, including [[the President signals that time has run out]] such a matter which affects nationalist those who are involved in political life.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u88	Mr. Ebatine...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u89	We therefore focus on this process and it is very important [[the President signals that time has run out]] be put on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u90	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Other lines, if that's what we're going to call subsequent speeches? Are there any other lines from the MPs? Here you go, Mr. Angelov. A line to Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u91	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vigenin, I would like to thank you for clarifying and explaining how the DPS was acting on the occasion of the formation of this position of the Bulgarian Parliament in order to make it really clear what they are doing, that one thing is happening, the third one is doing, the fourth one seems to end. What I have also said in my speech, that they manipulate and use every occasion to inspire untruths and thank you for explaining how they participated in the formation of this position of the Bulgarian Parliament. [[Private applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u92	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u93	Mr. Chairman, just to let you know that this was evidence of the double archine you are applying today. Nothing else. This was the double archin which should not be allowed by the President of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u94	Mr. Letifov, you have given a tone to a more open understanding of a line. I have repeatedly stressed that it is... We will talk about not wasting the time of the Presidency and the people's representation. Are there any other statements? For the doppelganger? Here you go. I took your sign as a refusal, Mr. Vigenin. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u95	I didn't mean to... After all, you don't need extra time for the dot. I just want to answer Mr. Angelov's question not to answer, but to really call: let us not try to find any political dividends on these important topics until the very last moment. Let us really try as much as possible on European topics, especially on the Bulgarian Presidency, to try to seek consent. I'm not saying we'll always find him. We will have definitely many occasions in the next six months to have sharp political debates on different topics, but let us, indeed, at least, on the big issues that are important to Bulgaria and for all our constituents, I can assure you, especially the main ones that we have noted, which I am convinced will find or at least have to find their place in the final programme of the Bulgarian Presidency, to look for ways together to work on them through our political families in Brussels, through the prime ministers of the various political forces, the EPP, the PES, ALDE and where there are others, because this is the way together to achieve results. And let the sparks and confrontation that is often present here be as constricted as possible in European terms, I say again, in order to achieve these goals. The period is indeed a key one in the next six months, both for the European Union and Bulgaria as a member country and a country that has the chance to lead the Council of the European Union in this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u96	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Any other speeches? I don't see any requests. Minister Pavlova asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for this opportunity and I would like to thank, first of all, on behalf of the entire government, for the opportunity and for the joint work we have had over the past five months on the formulation of national priorities and the Programme of the Bulgarian Presidency in the next six months. Thank you very much, first of all, Mr Vigenin for the correct and professional approach in formulating this draft decision on the contribution of the Bulgarian Parliament. This was indeed a contribution that is important to us, a contribution in which I would like to assure all the Members of the National Assembly in this House that we take very seriously the commitment and the work and the attitude on all the topics that have been raised today, as well as the topics that are explicitly mentioned in this draft decision. We will respect the draft decision as adopted by the National Assembly and I would like to assure you that these proposals of yours will find reflections not only in the final version of the Programme and the priorities of the Bulgarian Government. We were waiting for this draft decision so that they can be taken into account and the final version of the Programme will be submitted by me at the forthcoming meeting of the Council of Ministers on 6 December, with which to complete the final rights and the final, I would say, a phase of preparation for the effective and successful launch after exactly one month of the Bulgarian Presidency. I can say that, and here I specifically address the parliamentary group of the DPS, it is no coincidence that we presented here in the National Assembly, the draft priorities and the draft of the Programme in June as a project and the adopted July by the Council of Ministers Programme, precisely in order to have five months that have passed for public discussions, for debates, for talks with civil society within the regional dimension, at national level with employers and other organizations and here in the Bulgarian National Assembly. The project was presented by the ministers in the 18 of the 23 parliamentary committees in the Bulgarian Parliament and this was the implementation and in the spirit of the request, which we gave all the parliamentary parties represented in parliament and, of course, the government's commitment to hold this debate. Therefore, I believe that thanks to your contribution during these months and as a result, of course, of this decision today, we will have a good, complete version of the national programme and of the priorities of Bulgaria, and of the Bulgarian government, taking into account all dimensions and all nuances. I will not once again present to you the priorities, because I also undertake the commitment, as it is written here today, immediately after the adoption of the final version of the programme, to be here again, presented to the Bulgarian Parliament by the government before its implementation and presentation is started and before the European Parliament and the parliamentary dimension as an extremely important part of the relationship, from this institutional triangle, in which we are called to work. And to conclude, I would like to say that also the subject of respect for the rights, for the fundamental freedoms of citizens is the subject of this is a fundamental principle of the European Union, a fundamental principle that we adhere to and will adhere to as President of the Council of the European Union. Be assured of that. That is why, taking into account the motto of the Bulgarian Presidency, the motto of the motto of the Bulgarian Presidency, the Union makes the power, I hope, to be united, to be united and not only in the adoption of today's decision, today's contribution, but therefore Bulgaria to hold a worthy Presidency, to be a worthy reliable partner, to protect the national interest and policies that we will conduct, defending the Bulgarian interest, defending the policies and priorities for all European citizens, because Bulgaria will represent the opinion in these six months, the position not only of its own, but also of all 28 Member States of the European Union. This is an awkward task that will require of us a balanced position, consensual when necessary and compromise. We are ready and open to compromise, both within the Bulgarian Parliament, so that we can achieve it within the European institutions and this institutional triangle in which we will participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u98	Before closing the discussion, are there any MPs who wish to make speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Two draft decisions to adopt a position of the National Assembly on the draft programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union are to be voted on. We are voting on the drafts under the order of their accession to the National Assembly. I put to the vote Draft Decision No 754-02-95, dated 21 November 2017, submitted by the National Representative Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs from all parliamentary groups. Vote 169 MPs: 154, none, abstention 15. The proposal is accepted, and with this the Decision. We are voting for the second draft Decision, No 7540-02-107, received on 24 November 2017, submitted by the MPs Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 170 MPs: 16 against 24 abstention 130. The offer is not accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, before continuing the work to complete the weekly program, as we agreed in today's meeting, please congratulate the students from the school of Chernorizets Hrabar and the town of Plovdiv who are visiting us. [[Applause.]] Welcome! Passing without rest to the last point of the weekly program: FIRST READING OF THE COUNTERPARTY FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR CONTROL OF NARCOTIC INGREDIENTS AND PREKURSORS I ask for a Commission report from Dr Daritkova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u99	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Mr. Lachezar Borisov to be admitted to plenary. Voting regime for admission to the Chamber. Vote 96 MPs: 93 against 1, abstention 2. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guest. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors, No 754-01-74, submitted by Margarita Nikolova and a group of MPs on 25 October 2017. At its regular meeting on 23 November 2017, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova, Deputy Minister of Economy Mr. Lachezar Borisov, representatives of trade unions, word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The bill and its motives were presented by one of the importers Ms. Margarita Nikolova. It shall inform the Members of the National Assembly that the proposed amendments and additions aim at establishing a legal delegation by means of a regulation, chemical mixtures intended for the industry, to be able to be used where the substance contained therein does not exceed a certain amount and provided that the same cannot be used directly and/or extracted by easily accessible or economically advantageous means. The proposed changes are justified by the difficulties encountered by a number of manufacturers of components for high-tech industrial industries, in particular for the automotive sector in Bulgaria, whose manufacture requires the import and use in the manufacturing process of chemical mixtures which, in a small percentage, contain 1,4-butandiol and/or gamma-butyrolactone classified as narcotics, according to the Ordinance on the order of classification of plants and substances as narcotics. Ms. Nikolova explained that unless a legal possibility is created to introduce the above-mentioned multi-component chemical mixtures into the production process, there is a real risk that the projects of foreign investors will be redirected to another Member State of the European Union in which their use is not prohibited. The adoption of the regulatory changes will contribute to the development of industrial production in the country and in particular to automotive production, which in recent years has been imposed as a strategic industry and is one of the priority high-tech sectors for attracting foreign investment, with great potential for development of export, employment and regional economic activity and providing Bulgaria with a lasting place in the global product value chain. The proposed Bill will create the necessary conditions for the realization of a number of significant investment intentions in the field of automotive development in our country. In conclusion, Ms. Nikolova clarified that by regulating the use of the above substances in the production process, public health expectations provided for in the law will not be violated and abuse will be excluded, as those proceedings use mixtures composed so that these substances cannot be easily used or extracted by means of ready-to-use or cost-effective means. The opinion of the Ministry of Economy was presented by Mr. Lachezar Borisov. He explained that mixtures subject to regulation in the proposed Bill are used in automotive and construction and are produced and imported from Member States of the European Union, mainly from Germany and Poland. Mr. Borisov stressed that imports of narcotics are not regulated, but of chemical mixtures in which a very small percentage ratio of substance is available, which is included in List III "Risk substances" of the Ordinance on the order of classification of plants and substances as narcotics. The need to prepare and submit the proposed changes has been discussed at a meeting of the National Drug Council and a unanimous decision has been taken that the problem can only be resolved in legislative order. In conclusion, Mr. Borisov informed the MPs that the Ministry of Economy supports the proposed bill. As Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova expressed support for the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors in order to regulate the possibility of drugs from the lists under art. 3, para. 2, p. 2 and 3 to be exempted from certain control measures and the conditions and procedures to be laid down in a regulation of the Minister of Economy. It clarified that the Bill does not in any way relate to narcotics such as amphetamines, marijuana (canabis), cocaine, heroin and others included in List I In the written opinion of the Customs Agency there is a principle of support for the draft in question by proposing a second vote on the bill in order to clarify the proposed text of the provision of para. 2, p. 1, the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health discussed the proposed Draft and addressed specific issues concerning control measures from which chemical mixtures are also intended to release the mechanisms for carrying out control over the import, distribution and application of these substances. It was stressed that one of the ingredients of these chemical mixtures is a molecule that itself represents a synthetic drug that is used to control human behavior. These molecules disintegrate very quickly in the body and it is virtually impossible to identify them in possible investigative actions. In the light of the above, the Members of the National Assembly agreed that when drafting the regulation by the Minister of Economy, extremely stringent control measures should be provided for the percentage of drugs in mixtures intended for industry and their application on the territory of the country. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Law for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Control of Narcotics and Components, No 754-01-74, submitted by Margarita Nikolova and a group of MPs on 25 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will introduce us to the President of the Commission Mr. Kanev. You have the floor, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u101	♪ I can't believe under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors, No 754-01-74, submitted by Margarita Nikolova and a group of MPs on 25 October 2017. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 22 November 2017 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors. The meeting was attended by Svetlana Yordanova Deputy Minister of Health and Lachezar Borisov Deputy Minister of Economy. The bill was presented by the MP Margarita Nikolova. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to create conditions for the use of chemical mixtures in industry where the substance in them does not exceed a certain amount and the same cannot be used directly and/or extracted by easily accessible and economically advantageous means. The manufacturers of components for high-tech industrial industries in Bulgaria face difficulties in importing substances classified as risky. These mixtures are widely used in industry by putting them into products from which clean substances cannot be separated from which to be abused. Such chemical mixtures are used in a number of European countries. If no regulation of the possibility of putting these multi-component chemical mixtures into the production process is achieved, current and potential foreign investors will likely redirect their projects to another country where their use is not prohibited. A preliminary impact assessment has been applied to the Bill. In their opinions, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Health support the adoption of regulatory changes. They will allow the production of certain components for high-tech industrial industries and, in particular, for the automotive sector in Bulgaria, which is necessary for the development of our industrial production and will allow the realization of important investment intentions for our economy in automotive industry, which will have a direct positive impact on the development of export, employment and regional economic activity. Drugs and plants are distributed in three lists according to the Ordinance on the order of classification of plants and substances as narcotics. The first list lists those that are real drugs. These are heroin, cocaine, marijuana, hemp and all amphetamines and synthetic drugs, and they are prohibited from use in human medicine. The second list contains drugs that are authorised for use in human medicine. The third list contains risk substances that we are currently looking at and which in some countries are completely out of control. Members of the National Assembly Zhelyo Boychev and Rumen Gechev expressed their views on the rate of provision of services to foreign investors and control of imports of lynx substances subject to the bill. It was underlined that the members of the Commission were ruling primarily on the economic side of the bill. National Representative Adlen Shevked raised the question of the lack of opinion on the Law of the Ministry of Environment and Water. In his reply, Deputy Minister Borisov explained that there was a representative of the Ministry of Environment and Water in the Interdepartmental Working Group preparing the bill. After the end of the discussion and the vote with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors, No 754-01-74, submitted by Margarita Nikolova and a group of MPs on 25 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u102	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. An importer's opinion? Here you go, Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will not repeat everything that has been said so far in the sense that we have two goals. One is to attract foreign investments in Bulgaria, to make so that one of the companies that has built production facilities already in the country between the road Haskovo Dimitrovgrad, the company "Zazaki" has been waiting for these legal changes for two years and, if they do not happen, will soon export its production to Romania. The other company, which has expressed interest, is the company. These are world leaders in the manufacture of seals designed for automotive construction, and in this case these mixtures can also be used for construction. I believe that the creation of jobs in these two regions of Pleven and down towards Haskovo and Dimitrovgrad is very important for the country. This will be investments worth more than 150 million. lv. Of course, this should not be done at the expense of people's health, nor at the expense of the environment. So we will require all opinions, as we do at the Ministry of Health, we have the positive opinions of the Ministry of Health, I can only ask you to support the text at first reading, and if there are any refined opinions to be made between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u105	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The reasons for the bill set out by the importers indicate that the purpose of the proposed amendments and additions is to create a legal delegation by means of a sub-legal act of chemical mixtures intended for the industry can be used, and that the substance contained therein does not exceed a certain quantity and provided that the same cannot be used directly, or extracted by easily accessible or economically advantageous means. The adoption of the regulatory changes will create the necessary conditions for the realization of a number of significant investment intentions in the field of automotive development in Bulgaria. The importers specified that with the regulation of the use of substances 1,4 "Butane, diol or gamma-butyrolactone classified as narcotics1, according to the Ordinance on the order of classification of plants and substances as narcotics, public health protection expectations provided for in the Act will not be violated in the manufacturing process. Abuses will also be excluded as mixtures are used in those proceedings, so that these substances cannot be used or used easily by means of ready-to-use or cost-effective means. The creation of conditions for the development of the Bulgarian economy and jobs for Bulgarian citizens are undoubtedly one of the main priorities of the government. At the same time, I believe that we must be extremely careful about the way this objective is achieved and the impact on the health of Bulgarian citizens. The proposed Bill is foreseen in art. 5 of the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors to create para. 2, which lays down a regulatory exception to the control of mixtures intended for industry containing narcotics. It should be borne in mind that the current text of the Order of art. 5 refers to the exemption from certain control measures for drugs containing medicinal products. In this regard, I think that, from a legal and technical point of view, it is not tolerated in the provision of the same article to regulate public relations which, by their philosophy and nature, relate to radically different areas. On the other hand, the proposed text of the Order of para. 2 completely borrowed the scheme of release of medicinal products from certain control measures, which is not legally tolerated. It should be borne in mind that medicinal products are generally subject to quality, safety and efficacy control under the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine and European Legislation in this area. Due to the arguments put forward, I believe that the introduction of an exception to the control of mixtures intended for industry should be drawn up in a separate article of the Law. I also believe that, in view of the above arguments, it is necessary to specify in the Law provision specific control measures from which mixtures intended for the industry containing narcotics will be exempted. Last but not least, in the body of the Law, it should be indicated by which mechanism the import, distribution and application of these mixtures will be monitored: whether it will be through registration, or notification, in order at any time for the state institutions to have specific information about the importers of these mixtures, the quantities imported into the country and the location of storage of the chemical mixtures. I believe that, on the basis of this information, the competent authorities will be able to carry out timely and effective controls, and possibly prevent the misuse of chemical mixtures for the purposes of non-industrial production. The implementation of effective control is extremely important and because one of the ingredients of these chemical mixtures is a molecule, which in itself is a synthetic drug used to control human behavior. In the event that the body of the Law does not sign these basic situations, there is a real risk in the regulation of the Minister of Economy or to leave a legal gap due to a lack of legal delegation or to extend the delegation of the legal provisions in force, which is inadmissible from a legal point of view. To conclude, I say that my parliamentary group and I will support the bill at first reading. However, I believe that in order to achieve the objectives set out in the ground, in the second vote on the amendments and additions in question, the text of the proposed provisions should be reviewed and refined in full, taking into account the written opinion of the Customs Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u106	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any lines? I won't. Next statement. Professor. Mihailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Health Commission and the members of the Health Commission were very carefully acquainted in advance with the proposals for amendment and supplement of the Law on Control of Drugs and the reasons for economic impact, which were indicated by the importer. We are talking, first of all, about an extremely serious investment over 50 million. EUR, and for the creation of more than three thousand jobs in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is about production that is regulated in a large part of the countries of the European Union, but on the other hand, it is about molecules or, more precisely, a molecule that, by its physiological impact and nature, represents a synthetic drug, as colleagues have already noted, with an extremely serious impact on human behaviour and, unfortunately, with very rapid metabolism. In this sense, the guidelines that exist in the world, i.e. the guides for the production, control, use of similar chemical substances and waste products of this production, are of serious interest, and even in the world, a global federation of producers of similar substances has been established. In this sense, we believe that the proposed amendments to the Law have not yet been seriously refined, and I will try to explain to the esteemed importer why. From the point of view of modern synthesis, the words "percentage content" or "extract with non-economic resources" have no professional basis, as the modern possibilities of synthesis are very high and this is known to both producers and those who control them. In this sense, we believe that the point, i.e. the most important thing that must be done and which, to our surprise, has not been carried out so far, is the creation not only of a legal regulation but also of a special regulation that must be settled, both imports, because these substances are not produced in the territory of the Republic and their transport to the production unit, the production method and control of waste products. We believe that this regulation between first and second readings should now be obliged by Parliament to oblige the Ministry of Economy, together with the Ministry of Health, to be established by 1 January 2018. In this sense, our legislative initiatives will be in order to actually, as the previous colleagues have said, to benefit the Republic of Bulgaria, but to be under strict control. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u108	Thank you, Professor. Mikhailov. Replies to the statement of Prof. Mikhailov? I won't. Dr. Naydenova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I don't know how many of you in this room have seen people under drug-related effects, and in its extended clinical form: red face, dilated pupils, inadequacy, violence, suicides. And the younger the patients, the more cruel, sad and scary the picture is. You do, but you can't really help him right now. Therefore, control over narcotics and their precursors must be clear, transparent and uncompromising, regardless of which of them and which group of drugs is located first, second or third. Colleagues, we are facing new challenges. Businesses want to legitimize their use already in industrial industries, and some have even found them using the incompleteness of our legislation. Others state investment intentions and wait for our decisions, and they are not easy. One or two permanent committees on them is not enough to rule because lobbying is easier to break through. There are also many questions: what is the technology of the production cycle, has a population and workers risk assessment been carried out? Is there an opinion from licensed occupational medicine on the effects of the reagents and the substances concerned on the human organism? What control will be carried out in the transport, storage and operation of precursors and their mixtures? Colleagues, the responsibility of these and other issues, the decisions and the law itself amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors is yet to come. It's all our responsibility!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u110	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, as a People's Representative from Pleven, who I am charged with responsibility, with people's views and expectations, and I am from the cities, which is at the lowest economic rate I will give examples with Plovdiv, with Stara Zagora, with Ruse, with Gabrovo, despite all the arguments put forward by the pre-speakers, including my fellow Members from my parliamentary group, I cannot be irresponsible and indifferent to the prospect that the prospect is to find several thousand jobs. For Pleven this is vital. If such measures are not taken soon, not only through the specific Bill and case, the processes in cities like mine will remain irreversible. Despite all the risks, I repeat, which the transport, the production process and everything else is hiding, I will support this proposal and, with all the sharpness of my attention, I will observe, between first and second reading, what changes, what control and what are the arguments for ensuring the safety of the entire process. This will be done. Finally, I would like to say that it is most important to me, and also to all of us, for regions like Pleven, for every single workplace to protect it and to help with what we can open new and new jobs in order to return to these economic standards that we had years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u112	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. - What's the line? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u113	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! It seems to me that we need to divide the issue into two.. on the one hand, we have a proposal for production, on the other hand, it is a question relating to the control of the materials of this production. It seems to me that we must support this proposal and that the issue of control over the materials used should be resolved in the best way. There are many objects and substances in our reality that are dual-purpose and could always be used. We should ban the use of kitchen appliances, for example, because there are knives, and if someone decides to use them, they can do so. We should prohibit the use of grapes, grapes and so on. I think we should support him.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u114	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. I can't see another line. Mr. Kanev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u115	Colleagues, I'll be very brief. You understand that in our parliamentary group the decision is not unique. We, as an extremely democratic party, do not vote as some fellow Members under order... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Please, I didn't mean you. [[Laughter, excitement.]] There are different opinions. Some of our colleagues will be against it. A little bit of history. This ZID has been spinning for a year. I don't want to make any analogy, but just to accept it a year ago and something, Borisov's government fell. Then Delyan Dobrev brought it in, then the scandal happened. It's past and gone. The law is not as medical as it is economic. It is about a large company that already operates several plants in Bulgaria, this is the wiring of the cars. It's about a second factory to be built in Pleven. The big problem that the medical colleagues are worried about, here I strongly support Prof. Mihailov is absolutely right that the big problem is control. Therefore, the proposal he made, which most likely would agree with importers, is in very short time we will want a regulation to be provided in both the Health Commission and the Economic Commission. I personally, with much of my fellow Members, will support this Law. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u116	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? I won't. Please welcome the guests from the elementary school St. Cyril and Methodius from the city. Gotse Delchev. [[Applause.]] I'm closing the discussion. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the House to vote. I put to the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the law on control of drugs and precursors, No 754-01-74, submitted by Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova and a group of MPs. They voted 127 MPs: 122, none, abstention 5. [[Applause.]] The proposal was adopted by which it was adopted at first reading the bill under consideration. Dear colleagues, without a break we are going to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. [[A large number of MPs from all parliamentary groups are leaving the Chamber. Noise and lines.]] Written answers for service by: - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Education and Science of a question from the National Representative Milena Damyanova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Yordan Mladenov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Krum Zarkov, Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the MPs Dimitar Stoyanov, Dencho Boyadzhiev and Kolyo Milev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Todor Bajchev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Martin Tinchev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Nikolay Penev. New questions concerning the period from 24 to 30 November are not received. We are continuing with the first point of today's parliamentary control, the question is to Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister. He will respond to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Anelia Klisarova about problems with the Operational Program "Science and education for smart growth" (2014-2020). Who's going to develop the question? Professor. Klisarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u117	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Donchev, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I draw attention to this issue because it is now the third year of the 2014-2020 programming period, and according to the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" are agreed according to our data 24.8, about 25% of which have been paid between 8 and 10%. When we asked Minister Valchev, we received a reply that some 70 million are expected to be lost. BGN, and by operational axis 1. You know that for the first time in the operational programmes we need to take into account certain funds in 2018, because otherwise the programme will have less money. We also got acquainted with the information presented at the Seventh Meeting of the Monitoring Committee of the Operational Programme. Then we were told there was a risk for another 100 million. lv. by other operating axes, not operating axis 1. What have we found out so far? The first assessment of administrative compliance and eligibility approved eight projects for centres of excellence and 22 projects for centres of competence. With these projects, scientists apply for four centres of excellence and eight centres of competence or apply for a total of 350 million. lv. Firstly, there have been very serious difficulties since January 2017 in relation to the Managing Authority of the Programme. You know that this is why the Agency was created to have a Managing Authority and to meet the requirements of the European Commission. We also had very serious problems with the choice of evaluators, which led to an extreme delay in the evaluation of the projects, they had to be evaluated by 20 June of this year, respectively this could not happen, a new contract was made with the company "Progetti Plan" which I think by 30 October made the assessments and submitted to the Head of the Managing Authority their evaluation report. However, on 17 November 2017, after substantial ex ante controls within the Managing Authority, the Commission was announced to reduce the risk of financial corrections in the future, the Head of the Managing Authority of the Programme returned the evaluation report to remedy the deficiencies in the valuation process. Therefore, we ask you to inform us: what are the reasons for removing missed passes? Will this result in a delay in the procedure? What is the amount of financial corrections if these deficiencies are not resolved on time? Is there a risk that funds under the operational programme will be reduced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u118	Thank you, Professor. Klisarova. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have five minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Klisarova, dear Mrs. Bachvarova! I am not sure what the focus of the question is on whether it is related to the state in which the Operational Programme is located or is focused on the scientific infrastructure scheme. If the question is up to the first, I am not sure whether the parliamentary questioning procedure takes sufficient time to provide you with an adequate answer. This may be a matter of at least one-hour conversation. If the subject is on the second question, then I can answer you within just one sentence, which would make the parliamentary procedure meaningless. So I will try, within the short time I have, to provide you with these data that I am entitled to. I am somewhat surprised that the question is focused on me. Of course, that's not a problem. After all, we have different programmes, different managing bodies, not that I could not inform you what is happening in each of them, but ultimately this is the role of the respective minister responsible to the ministry and to the relevant managing authority. Undoubtedly historically this is, I would not say one of the most difficult, but perhaps the most difficult program. I remember even the first talks related to its creation. These were long discussions and disputes with the entire scientific community of Bulgaria. She had a clear and strong desire for the funds for science and education to be managed by the Ministry of Education and Science. This does not make sense that the body that distributes the funding should be together with the body that makes the policies. I have always accepted this argument, but I have also argued on the basis of my previous experience that where there was no managing authority, it takes five years at best to create it. Judging from the fact that I pronounced the line in 2013, I was absolutely right, unfortunately. That's not the only problem with the operational program. There is another structural problem here, which was addressed in reports and correspondence with the European Commission last year. The very fact that the Managing Authority is part of the same Ministry, which has key Directorates, which have benefited from the funding, this, according to the requirements of European legislation, constitutes a problem for the independent work of the Managing Authority. This caused, as you said, the Managing Authority to be taken from the Ministry into an independent agency as a kind of argument that it will be functionally independent in its work and will be able to continue to finance all the Directorates and Structures of the Ministry, which are beneficiaries of the Programme. Last but not least, the scientific infrastructure scheme itself with regard to the organisation of the evaluation process has faced a number of difficulties. You marked some of them. Firstly, the approach was taken to employ a company, a company to be outsourced, transferred part of the specific activities of the evaluation committee. The Ministry subsequently decided to terminate the contract and not to enter into a contract. At the same time, through the central coordination unit, a selection procedure for valuers was launched, a pool of experts to carry out the evaluation. At the same time, the company appealed, there is a ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court that states that the company must be contracted. This was concluded in the summer, if memory serves, August this year and the evaluation process has begun. This is the brief chronology of all the problems he has with the Programme. If I had to give you a brief answer... what happened to the evaluation process, unfortunately, I say, unfortunately, because I have always tried to give you as accurate and accurate information as possible, I should mention that according to the requirements of the Bulgarian legislation, understand the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2, p. 2, and as required by Regulation 13/03/2014, the evaluation process must be perfectly transparent as a criterion and as a result, but it is absolutely confidential as a process. This, what happens, which valuer during the evaluation of who wrote how much, this is not public information. In this sense, unfortunately, I cannot inform you which of the candidates has received what assessment of who has been accepted, who has been rejected, what reservations the managing authority has with regard to interim, final and so on reports, you understand yourself. Regarding your last sub-question, whether there is a loss of funds. In essence, a guarantee that all funds will be used and used to the end cannot be given to such an early stage of implementation of the programming period. It's like someone giving you a guarantee that if you walk on an icy sidewalk, you'll never trip. This depends on the actions of the managing authority and the beneficiaries over time. Yes, 2018 is the first year in which we have specific financial objectives towards the end of the year under the "N+3" rule. In this sense, the level of payments under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" is low, lower than in other programmes and if the rate is not increased, there could be a risk by the end of 2018. In addition, if you allow me 10 seconds, based on and on previous experience, we, even I think, have learned well how to manage such a risk. There are a number of technologies to avoid the loss of funds. Not because we lost money, but because if some funds are not used, it means unrealized funds, unrealized policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u120	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Who's gonna ask the supplementary questions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u121	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I must tell you that what you answered was neither accurate nor specific on the basis of the questions asked in our questioning. Why? We ask on Axis 1 if funds will be lost? In the media we start........................................................................................ the risk!................................................................................................... You are from the very beginning of the program, which means that regardless of the change of ministers, you are the person who monitors this program and accordingly its management, and the risks must have been identified in some form. Ten years after Bulgaria's accession to the European Union, we say that we have problems with managing bodies in the Programme, it seems very strange to me. The specific questions to which I ask for an answer are the procedure has been completed by the valuers at the end of October, the month of November again we have corrections, I ask myself: on what basis will you make the adjustments? So, once we slow down a month of project acceptance, why, I don't know?! Second time, we're slowing down the results at all. This year absolutely nothing will be signed and contracts will be signed, which automatically means that in 2018 we will not be able to cope. So our questions are: what is the risk and how will you minimize it? Because since 2016, the mistakes that have been made by the program since its launch have been endless. Our concern, especially after the adoption of the budget, which was literally yesterday, you say: the scientific community should apply for projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u122	The good guys.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u123	Well, who's good? They're applying to projects, so what?! From March 2016 The program has nothing to do with anything but fighting and dominance, which is being exercised about who can manage this Programme. We made an agency at the end, which has less expertise than the directorate, and I don't know exactly how you're going to handle it from here on under the conditions under which you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for answering the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u125	Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, even though I'm perceptive and should understand this matter, I couldn't understand what you were asking me. What are these adjustments that took place in the autumn of this year during the evaluation process? There are no adjustments within the valuation process. Correction is required post-factum in an audit report and in cases of detected infringements. There is no correction within the valuation process. Another point is that if there is a defect in the valuation process, the financial correction can be 100%. If the basic principles of selection of candidates, transparency, equal treatment and fair competition are not complied with, the financial correction may reach 100%. It is for this reason that the managing authority makes every effort to assess quality, honesty and transparency and not to have future reproaches not only on the part of the academic community but also on the part of the auditors. I suppose as a representative of the academic community, you know better than I do that the assessment of this scheme should be brilliant not only from a procedural point of view. The fact of the outcome of this scheme depends on what the structure of science education will look like. We're talking huge amounts. This would change the chances of a school, the Institutes of BAS to develop or not to develop. That's why the stakes are so high. The evaluation is continuing. What are the acts, the submeasures, who has done what, who has betrayed what, who has accepted what, these are procedural details. From a formal point of view, the valuation process continues. Is there a delay?! That's an indisputable fact! However, I think it is better to have a delay, a month or two, but the evaluation process will finally come out of good quality instead of vice versa, because such a risk is horizontal. Here we are not talking about a scheme where small and medium-sized enterprises compete. And there could be trouble, a defect in an incorrect assessment, but here, if there is a defect, it will continue to be exposed a decade ahead. Analysis of the risk of loss of funds is done every month, if not every week. This is a financial exercise, where the agreed funds are....................................................................................................................................................................... I was absolutely honest and said that the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" is not in its best situation due to the relatively small amount of agreed funds and the relatively small amount paid. But the risk of losing money, first of all, that's not a verdict. Secondly, I've always been against the noisy artifacts, because that disincentives the administration. When you tell them next year we can lose 50 million, it is a strong incentive for everyone to raise their hands and say: next year we will lose 50 million. There is nothing we can do. It's not like that! In general, in the years back, I can list you at least three successful technologies not to lose funds, starting from the most bassiest mobilization in terms of faster payment process, going through relocation of funds, moving them or within another priority axis or in another financial instrument in an attempt to preserve the objectives. We have applied them successfully in the years back and have not allowed the loss of funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u126	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Professor Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! What is important from our asking, which we want to do, is really have transparent procedures and rules. Brussels has been saying this since last year in all its reports on the Programme, starting with the fact that you are monitoring this process during these 3-4 years in which the Programme is launched, discussed and, consequently, financial commitments have been determined, but I cannot understand from your response if this procedure, which you are saying should be absolutely transparent at the moment, the assessments categorically, but if you consider that this has not happened, will you start a new procedure? I also get the impression from your answer, which revolves around the problem, that there is an opportunity and may be looking to have a new evaluation committee, which means that in time really going in a direction where funds will be irretrievably lost. You say: I do not want to talk about the risk that is being carried or the risk assessment under this Programme, but the Minister of Education says that funds will be lost. Tell us, who should we trust? He estimates that they are 70 million, 50 million "2018." These are respectively, how to say, adjustments that will be forthcoming.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u128	It's not a correction.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u129	Okay, it's not a correction. I see, there's no precision... That's right, you're right, this is where I accept. But, you see, ten years of being in the European Union and you saying that there are mechanisms to catch up with is absurd! It's science! I am very sorry that none of the colleagues from GERB, you yourselves do not understand that the scientific process is not now to start and pay, it is lengthy, requires efforts and the administration must do its job, and those who are responsible for what they do with Brussels should also be precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u130	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Please come in for an affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! On 11 August 2017, the Director of the Directorate of the Directorate of Education of NAP Burgas sent a report to the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency Galya Dimitrova. It expresses its discontent and disagreement with the judicial acts by which the court revokes administrative measures imposed by tax officials. The NRA Burgas offers the Central Management of the NRA the following, I quote: I suggest that a selection of the accounting companies and law firms for which we have information that legally serve the interested parties to whom forced administrative measures have been issued is to be sealed at the premises, as well as judges from the Burgas Administrative Court and members of their families and that reference is applied to all the lost cases of NAP Burgas in the Burgas Administrative Court. The very drawing up of such a report by a civil servant, we consider unacceptable and unacceptable. What happens after receiving the report in the Central Management of the NRA, and what is the Agency's reaction? For several days we have had the response of the NRA, signed by the Executive Director Galia Dimitrova, to an application for access to public information on the report and the actions taken. It states the following: a letter has been received from NRA Burgas, together with an attached report prepared by Mrs. Penka Zhekova, Director of the Department of Education in NAP Burgas, registered with the National Assembly. No 24-02-338 of 16 August 2017. Further: 25 of them are in NRA Burgas, that is, for that period after the report received in the Central Government of the NRA, two thirds of 25 out of 39 of the inspections and revisions of lawyers, judges and members of their families are in the territory of Burgas or, otherwise, the proposal of NRA Burgas for selection and punishment of inconvenient lawyers, accountants and judges was approved by the Central Office in Sofia and the implementation has started. The above described is unprecedented pressure by the state governed by GERB, judges, lawyers and regular Bulgarian citizens, documented in official correspondence of the National Revenue Agency. In the rule of law, with democratic rule, the court has the final word on the interpretation and application of the Law. The principle of judicial independence is one of the guarantees for the rule of law not to be undermined by political pressure. Repressive actions against lawyers engaged in the realization of the constitutionally guaranteed right of protection and against Bulgarian citizens sought their rights in court shows the true face of GERB's governance and how GERB accepts the exercise of power, whether at national or local level. This was voiced weeks ago by the then President of the National Assembly Mr. Glauchev to representatives of the opposition. Everyone can't say what they want, not even in a statement. Clearly, no one can criticize or give a different opinion than the government, otherwise they are being taken away from plenary, including with the help of Quaestors. But while the maximum repression against the MP is his expulsion for three meetings, if a regular citizen expressed disagreement with the decision or action of a minister, mayor of GERB or authority of the state governed by GERB, he and his family are subject to checks, revisions, investigations until he is crushed, expelled from work or his business is bankrupt. In this way, anyone who objects to this government is selected and his mouth blocked. That is why it is the fear among Bulgarian citizens in the country to express their opinion calmly. Therefore, no Bulgarian national or local television has dared to broadcast the film by Elena Yoncheva about the corruption and abuse of the trafficking of migrants across the Bulgarian-Turkish border. We, from BSP for Bulgaria, will not stop fighting the repressive methods of the management of GERB, will not allow the Bulgarians to be crushed, humiliated and pressured. Both the BSP and the Bulgarian people are not subject to domestication, as much as that is required by the government. And to conclude, we state that any civil servant or representative of the government, he is the director of a director of a directorate, head of an agency or minister who abuses his authority, must bear responsibility. That's why: 1. Next week we will demand a hearing of Finance Minister Goranov, here in the Bulgarian National Assembly. He should explain not to us, but to the Bulgarian society, do the revenue agencies benefit from pressure on Bulgarian citizens who do not share the actions of the political party GERB and the state institutions governed by GERB, and even allow themselves to seek their rights to the court. 2. If Mr. Goranov refuses, we will assume that he is behind the actions of his subordinates and the above is not a private case in Burgas, but a targeted policy led by the GERB government. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u132	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Colleagues, we're continuing with parliamentary control. To the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov there is a question from the MPs Filip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev regarding the delayed repair of the international road Vidin "Kula" An introduction? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, our question again concerns the international road II-14 Vidin There have been landslide processes in this area for years, which makes the international road difficult to use. On our previous question of 19 May 2017, you answered the following On 15 May this year a tender procedure was launched for the selection of contractor of the construction works for the restoration of the section. The deadline for submission of tenders shall be 19 June 2017. One month and one week. At present, selection, examination and evaluation of the bids of the participants in an open procedure under the Public Procurement Act for the selection of contractor for the construction and supervision of the site is being carried out. The period for carrying out the necessary reinforcement-watering activities ensuring the stability of the affected landslides of the section and taking the groundwater safely outside the landslide area shall be 110 calendar days from the conclusion of the contract. So far, many more days have passed.. Maybe more than 200. We are now December 1st, and the road section continues to be in the same extreme condition and creates problems for crossing. Our question to you is: when will this section of the road actually be repaired? Dear Minister, I await your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u134	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u135	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Topchiev, I am surprised what did not become clear to you in my previous answer and what new you find as factology and circumstances to worry about these 110 days. In what you have read, you yourself have mentioned that 110 days are running from the conclusion of a contract to repair the landslides. Is the contract signed at the moment? [[Reply from the National Representative Tsvetan Topchiev.]] You answered your own question. But I'll read what the coworkers have prepared. I guess there'll be plenty of time for the doppelganger. On 12 May this year, as I replied before, API launched a tender procedure for the selection of contractor of the construction works for the restoration of the district Byala Rada As of 19 May this year, when you asked your question about this site, the contract was at the adoption stage of tender documents, and the deadline for submission of tenders, as you have read, was 19 June 2017. Within this time limit, 12 offers for selection of contractor of construction works were deposited in the API's proceedings. Protocol No 1 of the Tender Commission appointed by the contracting authority for the selection, examination and evaluation of tenders in the procedure was drawn up on 20 September 2017. Non-compliances with the requirements for the personal situation, the selection criteria set by the contracting authority to the participants in the procedure, to which a time limit has been given for the submission of a new form. At present, the Commission has further examined the documents submitted by the participants and examined the technical proposal of each of them. The work of the Commission appointed by the contracting authority shall continue to examine, evaluate and rank the tenders of the participants in the open procedure. On 21 September 2017, the price offers of the admitted participants were also opened. Following the verification of the documentation, the Commission has requested detailed written justifications for the form of a proposal for a proposal for which normal Commission working practices have been found to be available with more than 20% of the average of the proposals of the other eligible participants. That's the practice of auction committees. At this stage, the Commission shall verify the detailed written justifications for the manner in which the proposed proposals of the admitted participants are to be established. For the site there is a finished technical project, there is a contract for the exercise of copyright supervision within the meaning of the Law on Structure in the territory and the regulations in force. And most importantly, what I have answered is the previous question, there is provided funding under the Operational Programme "Environment." The project will be implemented with European funds and national co-financing. We'll meet the 110-day deadline you're commenting on. Let the Commission complete its work within the statutory deadlines. Let's sign a contract with the chosen contractor. We may also have complaints after the Commission's work is completed, which do not depend on the will of the contracting authority. They'll go through all the procedures. I hope that in the winter season, when we can hardly build and strengthen a landslide, we will end the tender procedure so that we can start, not only in 2018, but also end by strengthening the landslide of the road that you mentioned, observing the 100 and 10 calendar days of work of the builder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Topchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for the answer from which it became crystal clear that this year will not be the way in which I do not know what circumstances you know. To respond to your surprise as well. I keep meeting with residents from this area who ask me this question: why is the road not rehabilitated? I told them that I asked the question and you have committed to it, but this section of the road is being repaired during the time of Minister Plevneliev. Since then, there have been problems like this, and it hasn't been repaired yet. And my people answer: "You are always talking and doing nothing. " - That's why I asked this question again to answer your surprise. I'm glad and hope it happens in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u138	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Topchiev, I sincerely regret that Mr. Philip Popov is not here and he is still a lawyer. He may explain to you in more detail, or come to your reception room with the residents, what are the legal terms and procedures under the Public Procurement Act. I sincerely believe that you are not trying to convince me that I must jump over the Public Procurement Act and conclude a contract quickly so that my colleagues from API can start working with the chosen builder in 2017. I sincerely believe that you are not trying to convince me of something like this. On the other hand, you are a MP. If these endless appeals, in which investors and society are suffering damage from the timely launch of such repairs, propose amendments to the Public Procurement Act. If you think this is the right logic, let us limit the applicants' right to take advantage of it. But the fact is that there are regulatoryly regulated deadlines that we observe. We do not want to be blamed later by this tribune or by other authorities for failing to comply with the country's regulatory base in the Public Procurement Act. We are walking according to the schedule we have and according to the deadlines set out in it. When entering into a contract, we will honour the commitment I made from this tribune, we may even shorten it by a dozen days, so that within three and a half months we can carry out the construction activities, strengthen the landslides and open up the road, which is one of the links of the Vidin region with the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u140	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works is from the National Representative Vasil Antonov on the actions taken and imposed administrative criminal measures in relation to established increased levels of nitrates and manganese in drinking water in settlements in Pleven district. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As it became clear, my question is entirely in relation to the implementation of Regulation No 9 concerning the quality of water for drinking and household purposes. Recently, 11 water sources were monitored in Pleven and Pleven district in 11 settlements, with three deviations found in two settlements. The two of them are in the village of Koynare, municipality of Cherven bryag, where nitrates were found in the drinking water, which is within 2.5 times the permitted. The other monitoring in the village of Lazarovo, Kneja municipality, found the presence of manganese 3,5 times the permitted. This issue deserves attention, as the periodic carrying out of these checks also gives other findings. We had similar findings in the settlements in the municipality of Dolni Dubnik and Gorni Dubnik. Very often such deviations are found, and repeated, in nine of the settlements of the municipality of Gulyantsi. As responsible for the quality of drinking water, water operators, as required by art. 7 of Regulation No 9, carry out continuous and periodic monitoring of the quality of drinking water. In the event of a deviation from the standards, water supply companies are obliged to inform the authorities of the state health control and to identify measures accordingly. Dear Minister, the provisions of Regulation No 9 are mandatory for the implementation of water supply companies. My question to you is: what are the actions taken and are there administrative penal measures imposed by the Water and Canal Pleven? I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u142	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, not only water and water and water, but also water and water, asparuhov val. Currently the water supply service for the village of Lazarovo, Knezha municipality, Pleven district is provided by the water supply company Asparuhov val. In accordance with the requirements of Ordinance No 9 of 16 March 2001 on the quality of water intended for drinking purposes and in order to supply the population with safe and clean drinking water, the Regional Health Inspectorate (RZI) Pleven and the operator "Asparuhov val" Ltd carry out continuous and periodic monitoring in order to provide systematic information on the quality of the drinking water submitted to consumers. During the periodic checks of water sources and testing of water samples in a certified laboratory of RZI Pleven, no deviations from the regulatory requirements of the drinking water according to the manganese indicator have been identified, which is evident from the protocols provided by the water operator. Every year, Asparuhov val is reporting to the Municipal Council in the city of Knezha about the company's work, including the level of performance of the provided water service, in this case the drinking water. These meetings are public and are published in all media. I can provide you with the minutes, respectively the letters by which we are notified by the municipal administration and by the municipal water company in relation to your question. In connection with the quality of drinking water in the town of Koynare, Municipality of Cherven Bryag, Pleven district, I inform you that the city is supplied by a well of shafts located near the village in farmland with intensive agriculture, and this is the only water source in the village of Pleven. The operator of the city of Pleven, and RZI Pleven, conduct a joint monitoring of drinking water, where it is found that the water supplied in the city is deviant from the regulatory requirements of nitrate indicator and the main reason for this is the improper use of nitrogen mineral fertilizers, as well as improper agricultural and livestock practice as a whole. The town of Pleven initiated a meeting with the local authorities, which decided on the establishment of committees with representatives of the Swimming Directorate, Ministry of Environment and Water, Ministry of Health and other competent departments, including ours, to limit the use of synthetic fertilisers in agricultural activities and the introduction of other agricultural practices in sanitary areas and zones around the water supply that I mentioned. To address this problem in the long term, strict compliance with the bans and restrictions on fertilizing in all zones of sanitary and security zones of drinking water supply sources, stimulating property owners in sanitary and environmental farming areas, as well as appropriate sanctions imposed by the competent institutions of offenders. Finally, I would like to stress that under the Water Act and the Health Act, the competent authority in the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of drinking water, we all know, is the Ministry of Health and its regional structures [[the President signals that time has run out]] which also carry out the periodic monitoring of the 28 regional health inspections. They are the only ones who can take administrative criminal actions......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u144	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Antonov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u145	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for your answer. What's so disturbing about him? What is worrying is that what you said about administrative measures and findings is something that appears periodically. I am far from doubting what you share, but certainly the measures are insufficient in this direction. Why? Firstly, because the findings of checks a few years ago, 5, 10, 15 years ago are in the same direction. I do not believe that farmers will invest more money in fertilizing in order to fully reflect this on the quality of drinking water. That's one question. The other question I take the liberty of extending it to the state of drinking water in the municipality of Gulyantsi. There are nine settlements where there are also deviations, and in an unfavorable direction. It is clear that with measures identified by the water companies and the Swimming Directorate, improvement will be achieved somewhat and strict control will be achieved. I have no doubt about that. But here, my question is in another direction, along with the checks, funds must be spent to seek the opportunity to purify this water. I'm not sure that's the only reason. One part of the question. The other part of the question is we are talking about drinking water, but here we are talking about the already worked, which in the same way enters the water supply zones. We don't comment on her at all. And that becomes a perpetum-mobile. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We are counting on a more concrete attitude and funding to get out of this situation. Similar attempts have been made in Haskovo region and have resulted in this attempt to transfer it to Pleven district as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u146	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Here you are, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u147	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, I appreciate the fact that you have objective concerns about these problems that have not been for a year or two. Especially in the municipality of Kneja have been for seven-eight years. Without any justification as the principal of water companies, in Kneja, I stressed, it is municipal, but the problem with nitrates is not only in Pleven region, but is available in intensive farming areas. Without in any way, I repeat, to shift the blame and to justify ourselves with farmers on the contrary, they are one of the pillars of our economy, but perhaps there we should improve control, and in the areas that concern, I mentioned, the belts and sanitary zones in places where we mainly provide groundwater, grunt waters, as is the case with the municipalities that you quoted in the Pleven region. Apart from that, I fully agree with the finding that we should look for financial sources not so much for purification as for the search for new water sources. In the budget until recently forecast, from yesterday, the budget of the Members of the National Assembly, in the sector of VIK, we have, naturally, insufficient, but still a certain increase in funds that we will be spending precisely on similar projects aimed at improving the quality of drinking water and reducing in some of the municipalities of frequent accidents. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So with that 6 million. lv. in more which we have in 2018, we will focus precisely on similar problems, on similar projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u148	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Here you go, Mr. Penev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, priority objective 12 of the government programme focuses on reducing regional differences in the country. The measures to be taken are related to the development of integrated support programmes for areas with adverse socio-economic, demographic and geographical indicators. In this regard, our issue is about specifying the areas for which programmes will be developed, as well as the specific economic and financial incentives for their implementation. In addition, in the previous GERB government priority was the development of a targeted investment programme for development of the Strandzha-Sakar region. In this regard, Minister, we ask you to inform us: will this programme be implemented, even more so, that it was detailed and essentially remained to be adopted by the Council of Ministers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u150	Thank you, Mr Penev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u151	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, Mr. Penev, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has developed a Targeted Investment Programme that is focused on supporting the development of the most backward in its socio-economic development North-Western region and on geographically disadvantaged areas such as Rhodopes, Strandzha-Sakar, border, mountain and semi-mountain regions that cover 54.5% of the country's territory and almost 30% of its population. The main objective is to reduce the disproportions in development between the different regions and within them. Strategic objectives, relevant priorities and measures will be implemented through concrete actions or projects aimed at reviving the economy through investment in industrial areas, business infrastructure, municipal markets and shopping, as well as rehabilitation of technical and tourist infrastructure. The programme also aims to address the problem of human resources in the longer term by placing a package of measures aimed at promoting employment in the regions and improving the quality of human resources through trainings on sought-after professions in the local labour markets, as well as to providing scholarships to young people, students and students in vocational schools, against a commitment to work in the backward areas for a certain period of time. An indirect measure that does not concern financial resources. It is planned to finance the fees for visiting preschool kindergarten children from vulnerable groups, as well as additional remuneration of teachers working in the Northwestern region. The project of the Targeted Investment Programme has passed the coordination procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and its administration in November 2016, but no opinion has been received. The financial framework of the programme has been developed for the period 2017 - 2025. For its overall implementation, it is necessary to provide additional funds under the budget of the MRB total of 1, 295,6 million. BGN, according to the possibilities of the state budget for the year in question. When updating the budget forecast of the Ministry, a proposal was made to include funds for the implementation of the planned measures and activities under the programme amounting to 310 803 600 BGN. for 2018 and 146 658 500 BGN for 2019 I am using this case to stress that if this programme is financially secured, it will be a really serious tool to boost the development of these areas and, accordingly, to keep the population in them. We must not forget that the investment measures laid down in it, as well as the individual projects, were of state structures, of municipal administrations, of business structures, non-governmental ones, are seen as priority. Currently, without having an approved programme, when we are spending financial resources and implementing our investment policies as the Ministry, I stress, in the field of road infrastructure, or in the area of the water sector... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Perhaps in the back, I will complement how some of the operational programs proceed and what incentives, with this sentence I finish, give projects in these particular areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mrs. Bachvarova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! Thank you for the answer you gave, but it seems to me that it had absolutely no specifics, unlike the government's intentions to adopt a program for Northwestern Bulgaria, the Rhodopes and Strandzha-Sakar for the period 2014 - 2018, when accurate projects and programs were really taken into account for what the development guidelines would be. Since your programme is now for the period 2017 - 2021, our first question is: this programme, which has been developed, participated all ministries, will it continue? You yourself said that 54% of the country's territory is an underprivileged area, which means that we, in order to be able to actually implement projects in these regions, must choose those in the most difficult state. Strandzha-Sakar is one of the toughest regions in terms of the fact that there are almost no human resources there and the region has serious demographic problems. I must tell you that this programme has been developed since 1986 with very detailed analyses. Indeed, there was then an intention and a desire for this region to become economically developed. I would like to ask you specifically the previous programme, you are saying that you will have investment projects that have been developed, these investment projects will be within the framework of state budget funds estimated by year: will this happen? Secondly, you say that there will be a transport infrastructure that provides an opportunity to develop a business, a water structure, things that are quite seriously backward in time. And the third thing you're saying is that there's going to be a package of investment loan measures and tax reliefs. [[the President signals that time has run out]] which in all European countries occurs in terms of the possibility and the need to have investment activity. Our specific questions are related to this: will you borrow from the old program and will there be realization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u154	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Bachvarova! If we have to go back 1986, it is perhaps the most unsuccessful, good as a year, but the most unsuccessful implementation of a regional programme ever made for Strandzha Sakar. We see the consequences to this day of its application. For border areas, because they are also.. except Strandja Sakar, Strandja-Sakar also falls into border area, their southern parts of Sakar and the central parts of Strandzha. The border regions in Bulgaria, unlike Western Europe, you know, are the most economically and demographically backward. This is the legacy of another formation when the border in Bulgaria was viewed not as an opportunity, but rather as a threat and as a prerequisite for really depopulation and loss of any economic activity in these regions. Especially in relation to my response, I commented on the targeted investment programme, which, unfortunately, at the moment, I say, is not with approved financial justification and is not powered by the necessary resources to implement the projects set out in it, in the completeness in which they are set. As for the management programmes and the four-year-olds that you comment on, they are part of the targeted investment programme, but despite the fact that we do not have approved financial resources of the entire programme, in a large part of the projects that we are still implementing, along the lines of our Ministry and municipal administrations in these areas, follow logic, follow priorities, and follow the specific project justifications that are bet on and apply to municipalities under this targeted investment programme, which unfortunately, I repeat, there is still no financial measure to be implemented. Apart from that in some of the operational programmes, I can give a good example: for example, the Operational Programme "Competitiveness", "Innovations" are given additional points, i.e. easier to pass through approved projects, which are realized in these backward areas, which is their only chance, a breath for the local economy and local business. I'm graduating. We should not only talk about measurable financial parameters, as regional policy in backward areas is being made with indirect policies, institutional, tax, which I mentioned even at the beginning of my response, for which we really need to make a little more responsible decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov is from the MP Krum Zarkov. Here you are, Mr. Zarkov, for the presentation of the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u157	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The dispute over the ownership of the properties used by the families of the Bulgarian kings Ferdinand and Boris III between their heirs, on the one hand, and the Bulgarian state, on the other hand, has been going on for more than 20 years now. During this period there have been various facts and circumstances, between which the adoption of laws, decisions of the Constitutional Court, we accept a moratorium and others, which, logically, led to many trials and cases in Bulgaria and in Strasbourg. In one of these cases in relation to the Palace of Vrana (Vrana) on 14 November 2017 in Sofia City Court, the procedural representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works have submitted a request for suspension of proceedings and a request for agreement with the country concerned. This, of course, caused some surprise among the following processes, in so far as judicial decisions so far appear to be decided in favour of the state. That is why I asked you a question the very next day on November 15th. In the fifteen days that have passed between asking my question and your answer, a whole public debate has emerged. It turns out there's a special bill coming up. There are already political reactions from different countries. Mr. Minister, it therefore seems imperative that you answer my questions, which were: at what stage are the property cases of the so-called "Kzars' estates"; how many of them are finally resolved and for whose benefit; what are the reasons of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works to ask for suspension of legal proceedings? And given what happened in the last few days and the publications, including today, it seems to me, Mr. Minister, that you owe a general answer to this: what does the government do in this case and perhaps most of all, why does it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Zarkov! Yes, it's been two weeks, unfortunately, I am one of the most frequent visiting ministers in parliamentary control and, I think, almost every Friday, but objective commitments prevent me from sometimes attending Friday parliamentary control, observing, of course, I suppose, like all of you, the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. I didn't have the right to go around it, but I had stayed in Macedonia last Friday especially, and it didn't matter at all. Currently we have two pending legal proceedings with subject matter: The right to property property property of the court "Vrana" and the palace "Tsarska Bistritsa" to which is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. With regard to the Palace of Vrana, Sofia City Court, as the first instance, considered civil case with No 3724 of 2011 with the object of recognition found that the Bulgarian State is the owner of the property, surrender of the ownership of the state's own buildings and award of compensation for the use without grounds of the state's own buildings. The heirs of King Boris III are defendants to the claims. With regard to the Palace of Tsarska Bistritsa, in the Sofia Court of Appeal, an appeal civil case No 904 since 2015 was initiated with the object of recognition established that the Bulgarian State is the owner of the property, surrender of the ownership of the state's own buildings and award of compensation for use without grounds of the state's own buildings. The heirs of King Boris III are defendants to the claims. The case will be dealt with before the court of Cassation. In the cases concerning real estate, the House of Sargöl, the Palace of Sitnjakovo and the Palace of Krichim, there are judicial decisions in force for the benefit of the state, but we also know about the moratorium imposed by the National Assembly for the entry into these properties. This is perhaps a topic which we will also discuss in the next plenary sittings of the National Assembly. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has not applied for a waiver of a claim. There may also have been speculation in the media space, not on your part, in the media space. I repeat strongly on the part of the MRDP: no applications have been submitted for refusal of action. Only applications for suspension of proceedings for a period of six months have been deposited, this is the maximum period, you are a lawyer and you know what legal option is provided for in the Civil Procedure Code. The Court of Justice did not rule on this request for which the consent of all parties to the case is necessary. We don't have a verdict at the moment. In the Ministry of Justice, I regret that you have learned the news from the media, it was also published, I think, last week, and not by my response, a working group was formed with the task of discussing issues related to the property ownership of the families of the former kings Ferdinand I and Boris III and their successors, which is to be delivered with an opinion. As far as I know, since I think it is wrong and I do not have the competence to speak on behalf of other institutions, the working group will finish its work on Monday at the latest, there will be an opinion. Then not only to you, but to the whole society will be presented what is the vision of the state, which does not only concern the vision of my current ministry on the closure of the case. But once again, to dispel any speculation, the state, on the contrary, has not given up, neither the case nor the property. Moreover, if an out-of-court resolution of the case is not achieved, in six months we will proceed with the cases. But at present, as the time limits expired two weeks ago, we filed similar claims for temporary, it is precisely the termination, the delivery of the working groups until its opinion was heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u160	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u161	Thank you, dear Minister. The two weeks that have passed since I asked my question, of course, are by the book, and I can't blame you for not wanting to, or you weren't here to answer. Unfortunately, this time fits into a comprehensive general context around this issue, a context that feeds the doubts about behind-the-scenes, about deals, about deals that have no bearing on the state interest as identified by the Bulgarian state since 2009. As far as the Bulgarian state, and by virtue of the will of the electoral and coalition agreements you are the one, you and your government are the one to defend the Bulgarian state interest, the Bulgarian state has considered that it has an interest in engaging a very serious resource to protect its positions in court. The deeds go, some of them end, they all end in favor of the state, and suddenly, somehow from nowhere, this request appears, which in itself is yes, according to the GPC, but as a lawyer, as a bystander, I cannot see its logic in the context of a production that goes for the benefit of the State. And so many questions arise from here..... why and when did the state decide that it should conclude an out-of-court agreement rather than let the cases be closed, cases in which both the plaintiffs and the defendants can state their interests so that ultimately this case can be resolved according to the Law? And that is why my question is, and continues to be: has the State changed its position on the protection of its interest, as it identified it in the context of legal proceedings? And what do you think will happen from now on? Why don't you just let the court do its job?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Minister for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, be assured that the state respects and will respect the representation of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry in relation to the dispute about the so-called "Karish Forests" for the properties that are a forest fund. The lawful conclusion of the procedure can be done, as you mentioned, and by court order, but the Law allows for a decision out of court, once again respecting the literally written norms, and, of course, why not future ones. We know about the Draft Law, it has already passed through the National Assembly a few days ago, but it was given to the Constitutional Court to settle the case. You are also aware of the decision, rather the decision which imposed a moratorium, I mentioned earlier about it, on the basis of which a moratorium voted by the National Assembly, the State in the cases which it won, you know, cannot enter into force under this moratorium, which provides for certain clauses. I won't quote them in fullness. Apart from that, I cannot agree with the fact that you are a bystander, you are a MP, I will not disclose from this tribune another direct link that exists between you and this case, but I also think that the order for an answer that I am giving you right now, following all procedures is sufficiently damaging. I commit myself, in so far as it is up to me as Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, to observe, once again, to mention, not only the letter of the Law, but also the public interest in this rather complex and legal point of view, and perhaps you are giving me an interesting point of view from a public one, a case, but let us see what the opinion of the working group will be, which I am not yet aware of at present, but I have the assurance that next week will be presented to both your attention and the attention of the public, so that we can continue with the legitimate conclusion of the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u164	Thank you, dear Minister. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Valentin Georgiev Lambev on the solution of the safety problem when crossing the village of Sheremetya, Veliko Tarnovo Municipality section of Republican Road I-4, part Sevlievo Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u165	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! The question I am asking you is related to solving a long-standing problem related to the safety of pedestrians crossing the Republican road passing through the village of Cheremetia. I was approached by residents of the village of Sheremetya, Veliko Tarnovo Municipality, who raised the issue of solving the long-standing problem of improving the safety of the section of the Republican road 1.4, part Veliko Tarnovo. The problem is indeed longstanding and it concerns crossing the road by pedestrians as, unfortunately, accidents happen almost continuously. After another serious incident at the beginning of the year, when a pedestrian crossing the pedestrian road in the village was hit and later died, village residents organized a protest clearly stated their request for measures to be taken by the Road Infrastructure Agency. In the petition, the residents of the village of Sheremetya insisted on solving the problem by indicating as possible measures the placing of a lifted pedestrian path, the placing of a speed control camera, the illumination of the zebra, a traffic light system, a light sign for a pedestrian path and others. In June, the municipality of Veliko Tarnovo also put this problem in front of the Road Infrastructure Agency. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what actions and measures has the Road Infrastructure Agency undertaken so far to resolve the issue of road safety and the protection of the health and life of pedestrians? Are specific actions planned, what and within what deadlines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u166	Thank you, dear Mr. Lambev. For a response, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nikolay Nankov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lambev, the organization of traffic on road 1.4 Veliko Tarnovo, in the section from 134 to 138 km, was carried out during the rehabilitation carried out in 2013 under the project "State investment loans"........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The documentation was developed by designers from the Chamber of Engineers in investment design. The project for the organization of the movement is agreed by the road police sector at the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Veliko Tarnovo, where an opinion was issued without comments and recommendations. The quoted section falls into urbanised territory. On the basis of the Road Traffic Act, the locality is limited to 50 km per hour. As an additional measure ensuring the safety of movement in the section by the Road Infrastructure Agency, in June 2017 two warning road signs A-18 were installed to boost the attention of drivers and reduce the speed of movement in these dangerous areas. In October, the horizontal marking has been refreshed in the section by placing a centre line and a transverse marking. In 2017 for repair works on road 1.4 in the area of Veliko Tarnovo region almost half a million leva BGN, to be exact. Three hundred and thirty-five thousand of them. lv. are for ongoing maintenance and 155 thousand. lv. For marking, signs and restraint systems. Work was carried out on machine patching, improving drainage, water recovery, alignment and filling of banquets, mowing and shaping the crowns of trees hanging over the road. In connection with the serious incident at the end of February this year, a meeting was held between representatives of the Regional Road Management of Veliko Tarnovo, Veliko Tarnovo, Veliko Tarnovo Municipality, the road police sector at the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior of Veliko Tarnovo, and residents of the village of Sheremetya, where a decision was made to change the existing organisation of movement by implementing measures for additional restraint of the pedestrian path of road 1.4 in the land of the village of Sheremeta. As a result of the decision, the Road Infrastructure Agency jointly with the municipality of Veliko Tarnovo took action to develop a project for the installation of a pedestrian traffic light and making a cross-border noise marking before the pedestrian path. The proposal for a change in the organization of movement and the project will be agreed with the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, Veliko Tarnovo, the Committee on Road Safety in the Municipality and the Agency. In favorable weather conditions, however, already dependent on the time factor, the measures will be implemented at the latest January, but if, as they say, weather conditions do not allow, it will be at the beginning of the next winter season in which we will be able, on a dry road, to apply the cross-border marking and also to install the traffic lights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u168	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u169	Mr. Minister, thank you for that answer. I see that measures are being planned to be taken and appealed to you as soon as possible, as there is indeed a danger to the health and life of pedestrians, and this issue is extremely exciting to the inhabitants of the village of Cheremetia, so we will monitor with interest and care the actions you will take so that we can still solve this long-standing problem together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u170	Thank you, dear Mr. Lambev. A question from the MP Lyubomir Boykov Bonev about a bridge over the Yablanitsa River, 42+60 km, part of the Republican Road 2.63 of the Republican Road Network of Bulgaria, passing entirely along the territory of Pernik district. Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u171	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Republican Road 2.63 is a second-class road, part of the Republican road network of Bulgaria, which runs entirely through the territory of Pernik district. On 9 November 2017, a truck with Serbian registration hangs over the bridge of the fork of the village of Vrabcha in the area of Sekirica and fortunately this incident is passed without casualties. The road load in recent years has increased many times due to the continuous flow of heavy goods vehicles passing through the Strasimirovtsi border crossing point, which is a prerequisite for road accidents. The bridge over the Yablanitsa River in the area of Sekiritsa is one of the most dangerous sections of road 2.63. It is possible to repair the road and the bridge as quickly as possible because this route is the only route to Trun Municipality and is of national importance, linking us to the border crossing point Strezimirovtsi. In this regard, my question to you is: is repair and expansion of the facility envisaged and within what deadlines will this be carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u172	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bonev, the bridge facility over the Yablanitsa river on Route 2.63, the subject of your inquiry, was built in 1933 of the last century, the last construction of the bridge was carried out in 1996 and the facility is currently having poor performance. In the event of a heavy-duty traffic accident on November 8th this year, the right zydan railing of the bridge and part of the front wall was destroyed. Land restraint measures have been taken, signs have been placed and movement along the bridge is limited in one lane. A containment system of the damaged area has been installed. There will be a restoration of the damaged railing, according to weather conditions. In view of what I have mentioned, the efforts so far have been insufficient and the bridge facility is indeed in a severe operational state, a technical project is currently being developed to extend the facility to a gauge of 6 metres. On the basis of the project, a quantitative-value account will be drawn up and the facility will be planned to be included in the Agency's repair-aviary programme "Travel Infrastructure" in 2018, following its approval by the expert board of the project, which is currently being developed. Let the emergency recovery project be drawn up and it will be financed through the Agency's repair-aviary programme "Travel Infrastructure" with the budget that was approved yesterday for 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u174	Thank you, Mr. Nankov. Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u175	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! About the bridge on Route 2.63 is the same with a width of 4 meters at the moment. It's existing. There are no sidewalks, there is no clear transverse inclination of the coating to the drains, the roughness of the existing canvas cover also further enhances the dynamic effect on the construction of the bridge. The condition of the structure is alarming. The lack over the years, as you yourself said, 1996 is the latest reconstruction, lack of inspection of the facility, repair and rehabilitation, have led to a reduction in the durability of this facility. Everyone you say is hopefully going to happen because I repeat myself, it is not normal that this bridge is 4 meters wide and is part of the second-class Republican road network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u176	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. He doesn't want the minister's doppelganger. We are moving on to the next question from the National Representative Todor Bajchev Baychev on updating the electoral lists in the Gravo system. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u177	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I understand that at present the issue is not so up to date. He rather gained popularity shortly before the elections and usually after them. It is then debated and discussed, but still, according to our current legislation, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to lead the organizational and technical preparation of the elections. In our media for a long time data has been released that in the country's electoral lists exist according to some data 800 thousand, elsewhere 900 thousand, and it is not established how many, but there are dead souls, people who have died or have long left their permanent address and are out of the country. It is paradoxical, but it turns out that in a country like Bulgaria, which leads in some negative rankings, such as the highest mortality rate, the lowest income, but instead we find ourselves the country with the largest number of centenarians and long-term residents, and this is thanks to these lists that contribute to an increase in life expectancy in our country. All this information causes our society to doubt the credibility of the existing electoral lists, as well as the ability of the Ministry to create normal conditions for elections, which is why I have to ask you the following question: when was the last time the election lists from General Directorate Grao were updated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u178	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. For your answer please come in, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u179	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Baychev, according to art. 18, para. 1 of the Election Code, the preparation and organisation of elections is carried out by the electoral committees, the executive bodies and the other institutions in accordance with their powers under the Code and not by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, and the coordination of the activities of the executive bodies is entrusted to the Council of Ministers. In accordance with art. 23, para. 1 of the Election Code the electoral lists are drawn up by the municipal administrations, which keep a register of the population and the Directorate General of the City Registration and Administrative Service of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works the only obligation is to print the same on the basis of the National Registry of the Population. I will also quote the legal basis........................................................................................................ 26, para. 1 of the Election Code. All Bulgarian citizens, regardless of their residence in the Republic of Bulgaria or abroad, shall be entered in the register under the Civil Registration Act, behind each record of a person in the register being an official written document with a force of proof. Data on persons entered in the register of the population shall be updated daily by the municipal administrations...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 105, para. 3 of the Civil Registration Act. The criteria for inclusion of voters in the electoral lists are laid down in the Election Code, and for the different types of elections they are different. According to the Election Code, all Bulgarian citizens aged 18 to the election day are included in the electoral lists. This is art. 42, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, while erasing the deceased...................................................................................................... 27, para. 1 of the Election Code, i.e. the electoral lists do not contain dead persons, except those who died immediately before and during the printing of the electoral lists themselves, whose death documents have not yet been presented and reflected by the respective municipal administrations in the Esgraun services. The term "dead people" refers to those persons who meet the requirements for voters, are included in the electoral lists, but for one reason or another they do not exercise their right to vote, most often residents abroad, but with a permanent address in the country. According to different data, there are about 2 million people. Centennials appearing on the electoral lists are due to unpresented certificates of death to municipal administrations, especially for Bulgarian citizens who emigrated abroad. Officials of the civil status in the municipality or town hall shall draw up the death certificates in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Civil Registration Act, i.e. after receiving a written notification of death. This is art. 55, para. 1 of the Law on Civil Registration, judgment....................................................................................... 59 of the Law on Civil Registration, or a copy of a drawn up by a foreign local civil status body a death certificate when death occurred abroad. 72 of the Civil Registration Act. Following the drawing up of the death certificates, the register of the population in the National database is updated, respectively the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. In cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, numerous requests have been made for the death certificates of Bulgarian citizens made up by foreign local civil authorities, most often refused because most of the persons have foreign citizenship and under the Law on the Protection of Personal Data of the Foreign State, a copy or extract from the death certificate can only receive a close relative of the deceased. The municipal civil registration services shall endeavour with the assistance of relatives and relatives of those persons to obtain and submit death certificates in order to enable them to be reflected in the population register. Data in the population register, rather than the electoral lists, which are formed only during elections, are updated daily on a daily basis by municipal administrations, reflecting events in civil status on the basis of written documents with probative power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u180	Thank you, dear Mr. Nankov. Line up, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u181	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! First of all, I thank Minister Nankov for the correctly released information and for being objectively served. On the second part of the answer, however, I would like to introduce a small criticism. As you rightly pointed out that the staff of GRAO daily fill in the information in collaboration with the other state and municipal services, but I sincerely hope that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works will finally make an annual analysis of the accumulated problems and, based on this analysis, identify some conclusions where the problems are and create the relevant regulatory framework for solving them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u182	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Baychev, I personally mentioned in my reply the problems and what measures we take, what decisions we have on individual cases, and in relation to the specific ones asked in your question. It is a fact that these measures, and these problems, are analysed on the basis of the studies and analytical reports carried out after each reference, whether for national or local, even for partial local elections, which the colleagues of GRA do. But the GRAO is doing analysis as far as their competence is the one I justified in my response. We have, of course, reports from international non-governmental organizations, you know, and reports from the Central Election Commission about respectively not calling them problems, but about cases that arise in a legislative process with the conduct of separate elections. I think that, especially in this matter, perhaps you should do a little bit on.I don't know, I do not know, a round table, a forum, a seminar, but when we have tried in previous times, there have been a few, by the way, similar seminars, because some, without qualifying competent representatives of society, sociologists, polytologists, have built a career based on the definition of dead souls. On the subject, it is really good for the public to understand what the term "dead souls" means, and these are not really dead people. I mentioned what is the problem with the real deceased and not reflected in the electoral lists, understand in the database "Population" due to the fact that it only works on the basis of official certification documents. However, this is indeed a subject which, with the parliamentary control procedure, we simply could not run out. It's a good thing you're lifting it, and not in election time. Since the subject has been raised repeatedly, perhaps not as simple in regulatory amendments as I say again, in terms of public attitudes, in terms of better public awareness of the overall process of conducting the National Database.Population, municipal ones and printing electoral lists. As for the problems we have with Bulgarian citizens who died abroad, I mentioned what they were. They do not depend only on our legislation. As in most parts we are talking about people with dual citizenship and we need to comply with the regulations and the countries in which they have another citizenship other than Bulgarian. Just one reference to Mr. Zarkov just now, if I may, Mrs. Chairman. We've specified his attitude, his connection to the subject. It is not a link related to publications at the time in some media on an investigation involving, for example, a crown of properties. There were similar journalism materials. It is the link with this and I therefore pointed out that Mr. Zarkov has an attitude, as one of the most active and active not only in the management of the group of the BSP for Bulgaria. So I wasn't surprised that he himself and he was the one asking me that question. Again, not an apology, but with the inability to attend two consecutive parliamentary controls is the fun of the answer I gave. But I think there is nothing more I could give as information at the moment, as it does not depend solely on the will of our office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u184	Thank you, dear Minister. The last question is from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev about road III-306 Lukovit
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u185	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, before I ask my question, I would like to address you and to give you a report that the question with which I have taken care of you, for marking the road Pleven.. Theteven is already solved and thanks to your quick and responsible reaction many citizens will already be able to travel in the season of the fog a little more calmly, more securely and faster, for which I, on my part and on their behalf, express my gratitude. My question is about road III-306 Lukovit Dear Minister, my question concerns Republican Road III-306, the aforementioned road and specifically its section of the Red Coast. The division has a length of 9.5 km, in a state that requires rehabilitation, but so far no concrete action has been taken. At the same time, the section is of great importance to the local population, because it includes the bridge facility over the river Iskar at the village of Chomakovtsi, which is one of the connections of the highway Unfortunately, the facility has already been in emergency condition several times. It is a fact that in 2016 a public contract was carried out to award repairs to the precinct. However, the procedure has been appealed and suspended. In 2017, a new procedure was carried out and a contractor was chosen to complete the public information on the problem. My question to you is: what happens to this section of the bridge facility, which constantly poses a risk and a threat to passersby; what do people expect, what action will the Ministry and the state take in the foreseeable future? Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u186	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. Come in for an answer, Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Burgeev, in order to improve the accessibility and ensure safe and comfortable travel on road III-306, the third-class road Lukovit As an important prerequisite for the inclusion of road III-306 in the programme, the economic potential of the region as agricultural and industrial, and the opportunities for development through increased mobility and access to markets, was taken into account. The Republican Road and the bridge over the Iskar River are part of Lot 17 site under the Operational Programme. A contract for providing grants with the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme of 9 million has been concluded for the project. $800,000. lv. with VAT. Public procurements are currently being carried out for the selection of contractors and construction supervision, and the committee is currently considering the price bases of the participants in the procedure............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The price offers are open, that is, we are at the final rights in the conduct of the public procurement. The selection of performers is expected to be completed by the end of December. In the absence of an appeal against the contracting authority's decisions and after signing contracts with the contractors of the construction and supervision activities, of course, the rehabilitation will begin in 2018. I think that within four or five months and there will be an appeal, we will finish, we will finalise the procedure. We will have financial resources available to begin the rehabilitation of the road in 2018. Just two words to say what it will include: delivery and installation of new containment systems, marking with high night visibility on wet pavement, and new road signs and signs will be installed. A new road construction will be built for the category of motor vehicles over 10 tonnes. In the town of Cherven Bryag, the existing pavement is planned to be removed. To improve drainage, new lined trenches will be built around the entire length of the settlements, two pipes will be made and new concrete curbs will be installed. Two layers of asphalt concrete shall be placed for profiling and leveling with variable thickness and wearing layer of solid asphalt with a thickness of 4 cm, type A with polymerized bitumen. The old steel bridge over the Iskar River will be replaced by a new steel concrete, 8 m road, right sidewalk with a width of 3, 25 m and a left sidewalk with a width of 2 m. For the site there are agreed opinions from the operating companies and other state institutions, as well as from the respective municipalities through which the road section passes. In 2018 we will implement this site in Pleven region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u188	Thank you, Minister Nankov. Here's a line, dear Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I am satisfied, the answer was comprehensive. You've brought clarity to me and to the residents who are excited about this precinct. I hope that what you have just said will go in these plans and that concrete construction works will see them and people in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u190	Would you like a douche? Probably not. We are grateful for the participation in today's parliamentary control of Nikolay Nankov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. We are continuing with a question to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, who will answer a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov on a report on the possibility of realization of the assets of NPP Belene, prepared by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u191	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! My question is, of course, asked in the near and distant past, but to a large extent it is extremely important not only for the weed economy, not only for the national and regional On 16 November 2017 was officially presented the final report on the opportunities for realization of the assets of the NPP, prepared by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Dear Minister, how do you assess the opportunities for development of the NPP project, which is covered by the report, and what actions do you intend to take in particular? I ask for your specific answer to this question so important to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u192	Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u193	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Antonov! Thank you for that question. As you mentioned, this is a very serious and important topic for Bulgaria. It's not like that since yesterday and not today. This is perhaps the case in the last 35-36 years, when it comes to the NPP project, because it has started not now, but since the late 1970s and early 1980s. Today, the topic related to the NPP Project "Belene" and its future stands very strong on the agenda because we are in a hypothesis in which we have a site for the construction of this Project. It is licensed, the necessary infrastructure is built on it. At the end of last year, we were sentenced by International Arbitration for having ordered the equipment we had to pay in 2008 with Appendix No 5. Last year, in implementation of the International Arbitration Decision, we paid for this equipment. 176 million. lv. and we have equipment for this project. On the other hand, we also have a notification of the project to the European Commission, which was made at the end of 2007 and before us is the very important task that we need to solve. It relates to how in the most rational way to use the assets in relation to this Project, which we undoubtedly own to date. That is why, at the end of our previous management term, the Council of Ministers decided to carry out such an analysis, in a legal, technical, economic way, from the perspective of the rational use of this equipment, possibly the construction and realization of this Project, but limited within certain parameters and they are generally reduced to being on a market basis. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences developed such an analysis, the Bulgarian Energy Holding entrusted this analysis to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and in mid-November the final report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is a fact. What the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences had as a task and has analyzed in its report is first to answer the very important question whether there is a need for a new base power not only in Bulgaria, but also in the whole region. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences based on the analyses it makes firmly states that after 2030 there will be a deficit of capacity in the whole region, which will be at least 2000 megawatts. So the answer to the first and very important question is there. With regard to the possibilities for realization of this Project, there are several hypotheses: The first hypothesis is to do nothing with the Project. BAS also considers such an option, but the Academy of Sciences defines it as the worst-case scenario, as it will only cause damage and accumulate new costs associated with the site, with equipment, but there will be no revenue and no benefits from it. The second option is related to the possibility of selling this equipment, but here are also identified certain risks. I also believe that such risks are undoubtedly present because if the equipment is sold, it will be sold at a price much lower than the actual value of the equipment and it would not be able to cover the actual costs that have been incurred so far for this project. This means that everything accumulated as investment costs under the Project, which is just over 3 billion, must be described in the loss of the National Electricity Company. Here is the very important question when we talk about what to do about doing nothing to do or to sell in any way. In order to pay for the equipment, at the end of last year the state provided a loan to the National Electricity Company through the budget of the Ministry of Energy and this loan of 1 billion. 176 million. This is the last possible year in which this loan must be reimbursed. We have to think this way. BAS also examines the possibilities for realization of the project in certain parameters, in certain scenarios. It is considered the option in which a 100% private investor is sought. The analyses made by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences show that such an option would not be possible and would not be successful because in order to be sure as a country and to have a guarantee for this project, the state must participate in some way. That would be a very serious attraction for any potential investor. If the project were to be 100% private, the combinations and scenarios that BAS is playing out in this case show that the project would not be possible, it would not be profitable, there would be no interest in it. The other option related to State participation in this project shows that when the costs for this project are exceeded to the maximum extent EUR where the interest for such funding exceeds 4,5% and the debt to equity ratio is different from 70 to 30, there is no combination in which the project is financially viable. In addition, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences plays out several scenarios and several options related to the parameters that are investment costs below 10.5 billion, interest below 4.5% and debt to equity ratio 70 to 30, then there are a number of combinations and options in which the project is financially viable. What I think the government must do in this situation, as it is an extremely important project, for an extremely important decision that must be taken, this debate must be brought here to Parliament, to be put to a broad discussion. We need to hear all about this project and make the best decision for Bulgaria. Because we need to know that whatever decision we make, this decision will involve generations ahead. Whether we build the plant, then generations ahead will have negatives or assets from this. Whether we are going to implement the headquarters.. should also be clear what commitments it will lead to for future generations. From now on, we must look for a debate in parliament and, on the basis of a broad consensus, to decide on this so important issue, which has been standing before the Bulgarian society for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u194	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the opportunity to reply, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u195	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for your answer. There is very little time for us to comment on this topic, but definitely what you said is in principle and we need to work in this direction. I would like to ask a few specific questions. First of all, as much as we do not wish to turn back in time, it is clear that before this analysis, which came out of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, were conducted and before that analysis, which were exported and used to shape the previous decisions of the Council of Ministers for construction at the beginning of 1976 at the Atomic Powers Department of Belene. After that, the decisions of the Council of Ministers of 2004, 2005. Today, after the report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, it becomes even more clear that the 2012 decisions of the Council of Ministers of 28 March 2012 and the next day the proposed moratorium of the 41st National Assembly, from today's perspective, look very losers. Technology is going, and price escalation is also going, so I think measures should be taken very quickly. Firstly, the 2012 decision must be annulled, because we are doing in this way an interested project for foreign investors, even though there are no such investors missing now. With regard to the findings of the three hypotheses, it is clear that the first hypothesis is not to do anything, once we have played this film with the sale of scrap to the previous reactor, which today produces electricity in Russia. The second is to sell the reactors. First and second hypothesis we rule them out. They are brutal losers for the Bulgarian people. The third remains to build nuclear power in one of the options. I wouldn't say that 100% being a private plant is possible. Firstly, because the country has incurred the necessary costs with the license on the site, investments and the purchase of the two reactors. Here you deserve good words.. to say from the stand, because I have always been negative in my assessments when answering questions, but definitely you have had a good dialogue in subsequent arbitration and managed to achieve good prices. It remains now to carry out the rest of the work in this direction to complete the plant. It can be done in two ways.. to be done by the state if there is will and means and I believe that this is not impossible and that this is the real option. The other is to attract a private contractor, although there is a matter of fixing the percentages, but these percentages can be with redemption, which is the most profitable option for the state, and with redemption to a majority stake in order not to sell sovereignty, to have an effect on all of this history. Thank you again for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u196	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Here's your coat, Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u197	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Antonov! Thank you for the analysis you've done. Really, the option of not doing anything is the worst option. If we go to the option to implement this Project in any way, we really need to do a very serious analysis and a very serious discussion among the public and among the experts in this area................................ in the field of nuclear energy...... so that we can assess very properly and very really the risks that stand before us if we go in one direction or the other. You are absolutely right that this project cannot be realized without the participation of the state, at least because the nuclear risk remains in practice within the territory of the Bulgarian State and we must treat the necessary responsibility for such a process. As for the state of 100% to implement this Project and to allocate money from the budget, I think that this option would not be so beneficial for us. Because from the very beginning, with the idea of launching the project, the Belene project in 2004 was clear and today it is clear that such a project cannot be realized only with the state's efforts. It must be realized with the presence of a strategic investor. Such a procedure was carried out in 2008, a strategic investor was chosen, but the strategic investor left the project because by the end of 2008, which he had set, no contract was concluded between the Atomstroyexport and NEK for the implementation of the project. In my opinion, this is one of the main reasons why this project should not be implemented as the basic parameters of this transaction have not been agreed. Therefore, if we go in this direction, we must very carefully analyse all our errors in the past and make sure that if this Project is implemented, it has very clear parameters, fully in line with the requirements of national law, European legislation, so that there are no risks and no fluctuations in its sustainability and its realization. I think it is quite possible that the option in which the state will have a certain participation is possible - whether minority or majority - because we own the most valuable for this project. We own a site, we own equipment, we own licensing documents. This is actually the most valuable for the project and we could participate with an asset portfolio in one such company and therefore launch a procedure for selecting a strategic investor. As you mentioned, there is a similar interest. From now on, it remains after the debate in the Bulgarian Parliament to decide that if it is going in this direction, it should be given a start to the relevant procedures which will lead to the choice of such a strategic investor if it continues to maintain its investor interest. This should be the main red line. We need to have a nationally responsible debate without splitting into one political direction or another. You raised the issue with the decision of the Council of Ministers. I just want to make a comment. The decision of the Council of Ministers is not a moratorium, as is very often mistaken. It's a decision to stop the project. The reasons to stop the project are related to the lack of funding. This is also the argument with which the project was stopped in 1990. Go back to the archives and you will see the decision of the Council of Ministers. The reasons there are that there is no funding and there is no possibility for the state to allocate such resources. This decision of the Council of Ministers and respectively of the Bulgarian Parliament, which supports the decision of the Council of Ministers, is no obstacle and this is not a moratorium. It is a decision based on the actual situation at that time. It was such that there was no contract, there was no clarity what the parameters would be, there was no corresponding resource to enable it to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-01.u198	Thank you. This was the last question of today's parliamentary control. Let me thank Mrs Temenuzhka Petkova for her participation in the parliamentary control. The next regular meeting is on Wednesday 6 December 2017, next week. Thank you. Have a good rest, everyone! We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
