ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Messages. On 29 June 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 29 June 2017 to 25 June 2017 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 29 June 2017 to 25 June 2020. No. AD-724-00-6 in the National Assembly received summary information with its annexes to the conference held on 6 June 2017 in Sofia - Financial instruments of the European Union, lessons learned and perspectives, organized jointly with the European Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the materials were sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Committee on Economic Policy. On 29 June 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 29 June 2017 to 25 June 2017 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 29 June 2017 to 25 June 2020. No 724-00-10 in the National Assembly on the basis of art. 20, para. 4 of the Public Sector Financial Management and Control Act was delivered an opinion by the Court of Auditors on the Consolidated Annual Report on Internal Control in the Public Sector in the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, submitted by the President of the Court of Auditors. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the opinion was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Sub-Committee on Public Sector Accountability to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We continue with the first item for today's agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON THE MINISTERITY OF INTERNAL WORKS. People's representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 27 June 2017. Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Before that, the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u2	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Mr. Krasimir Tzipov to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u3	We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 161 MPs: for 151, against none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Invite Deputy Minister Tzipov to the Chamber. You have the floor, Mr. Tachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Allow me to introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe on a bill supplementing the Ministry Act of the Interior, No 754-01-31, imported by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 27 June 2017. At its regular meeting on 28 June 2017, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined and discussed the Draft Law on Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 754-01-31, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 27 June 2017. The meeting was attended by: Krasimir Tsipov Deputy Minister of Interior, Mladen Marinov. Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior, Rositsa Grudeva On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Tsvetan Tsvetanov. In his exhibition he noted that the main objective of the Bill was to create a legal text for the payment of sums of uniformed clothing to employees who were not provided with their uniformed clothing. The current law does not provide for such compensation for the payment of the left-wing equivalence of the employees to whom uniformed clothing was not granted and some of them were forced by their own means to deliver it. It is appropriate to establish a rule in the Law to resolve the problem and to pay the value of clothing for previous years. This is an important step towards solving problems in the system and an adequate contribution to increasing the authority of the institution. The difficulties in this direction were created by a lack of financial resources, as well as by obstacles related to the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. An opinion has also been received from the Minister of Finance Mr. Vladislav Goranov, who essentially supports the Bill, but with some editorial amendments related to avoiding its contradictory interpretation. Deputy Minister Tzipov expressed support for the Draft Law on Supplement to the Ministry of Interior Act. People's representatives Ivan Ivanov and Georgi Andreev took part in the debates, who expressed their views on support in solving this problem. On the basis of the discussion held, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee with 18 votes for the House of Interior, No 754-01-31, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 27 June 2017, proposed to adopt a draft supplement to the Ministry of Interior Act No 754-01-31, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 27 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Tachev. An opinion from the importers? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This proposal, which was made with importers a group of MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB, received full support from the other parliamentary groups of the discussions in the Internal Commission. We believe that this way we will be able to reduce the tensions in the security system. We should also say that in the last four years, the policemen who are supposed to receive uniformed clothing have not received it for objective reasons - a procedure which has not been completed in the calendar year, or a shortage of money, but the employees who are from the Ministry of Interior and are not in police uniform have received their rhythmic pleasure expressed in the money amount of 400 BGN. This is a delay from 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. We believe that in this way there will be fair retribution and receipt of the cash equivalent of the clothes money that the employees of the Ministry of Interior must receive and will be able to those employees who, by their own means, have purchased some of the uniform attributes, recover them and receive the funds that are provided annually in each budget of the Ministry of Interior. In this way, we will be able to unite all of us and give a very clear sign of our attitude towards police work and what was accumulated as tensions for the non-payment and not receiving the pleasure. I would like to thank my colleagues from the BSP, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, from the "United People," from the "Volja" because all unanimously, as was read in the report by my colleague Plamen Tachev, all stood behind this legislative change. I am convinced that this is the way the Bulgarian Parliament should work. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. You have the floor to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u8	Line!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u9	A reply to an importer's opinion cannot be made. A statement? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today we are looking at amendments to the Act on the Ministry of Interior, which will result precisely in a reduction of the so-called disproportion in the Ministry of Interior and the lack of pleasure and uniformed clothing. The Commission indicated that the problem was from 2012. That's five years. Granted, in the Commission, we have given our support to this bill because the situation in which our uniformed police officers have fallen is not enviable. Against the backdrop of our upcoming Presidency of the Council of the European Union, it would be, to put it mildly, ridiculous to welcome high-level representatives from the European Union in torn uniforms, with torn shoes. The main problem remains. We were impressed that if it had not been for the ugliness of the country, unfortunately it remained and the unions said that there would be protests at the Day of the Ministry of Interior that Mr. Radev would be the first minister to be remembered precisely by entering the Ministry, welcoming the police holiday with protests, which dictated this change. We do not find answers to the main question raised by the Ministry of Interior officials: when will wages increase? We have not heard a response from the Minister of Finance.............................................................................................. lv. Such an application is not adequate either to the demands of the employees in the Ministry, nor to the desire, I cannot understand whose is it of the Deputy Minister, the Minister, to increase wages, to have a dialogue with the trade unions. After all, what will happen to the security sector? The danger, honourable Members, on 1 January 2018 to welcome the Presidency and the commissioners with torn Cubans is still present. You also understand that giving a hand to policemen to buy clothes, not to provide them with the Ministry, is also not a cardinal solution to the problem. This is solving the problem of a piece. If we really want to have a functioning system, policemen who are motivated to work, and in order to be able to fulfill your election promises to complete the system, fight against domestic crime and prevent such events as we see today in Asenovgrad, a comprehensive approach must be found, honourable colleagues. If we continue with patches, trust me, the effect will be zero. I hope that in the nearest time the Ministry of Interior and the Council of Ministers will actually fulfil the desire of the uniforms to introduce a whole new Act on the Ministry of Interior, which will, first of all, cancel the so-called "Bachvarova Reform." Many spoke, including from the leadership, and from the staff of the Ministry of Interior, that it was a false reform that led to tensions and conflicts. So that the police can get an adequate reward. To be able to make the service attractive to all those who wish to enter it, and not to appear in competitions, people who return them, are good for nothing, with excuses. To be able these people to enter their duties in small towns and protect the Bulgarian citizens from abuse and rob them and beat them and kill them, do all sorts of things. Therefore, honourable Members, today we will support this Bill, as tensions with regard to its pleasure are ripe to the extreme. I will not go into details about how these people spent the winter and the summer months over the years, but think about one thing: it is very important that this Ministry be so reformed that people can carry their service with honor and dignity. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? You're welcome to make a line for Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, as you said, in the Commission we supported this bill. But we supported him for having to eliminate this injustice and for the employees of the Ministry of Interior to be able to receive the funds they needed in the four-year period for the purchase of uniforms. Their presence on the street to be adequate to what the citizens expect the representation in the face of the Bulgarian police officer, statehood, to be accurate. Unfortunately, it is a patch in the Law, which the government struggles to suppress the tensions created among the trade unions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u13	Mr. Andreev, I ask you very much to reply to Mr. Ivanov in order to disagree with what he said.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u14	Mr. Ivanov, I did not see specifically in this Bill what the Ministry of Interior envisages for a procedure to be organized, conducted and finalised in the future the policemen to have good working clothes and to be representative on the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u15	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Ivanov, come in for the back of the line you were made.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Andreev, you are very much right because the proposed bill, apart from offering a solution to a problem, also raises a number of questions. This year we found out that 29 million had been provided. The question is: are these funds provided for next year, is the Ministry ready to conduct the necessary procedures and to put these people on? As has been said in the Commission, the problem has been fixed since 2012. What is the guarantee that this thing will not happen this year and next year, that these people will not go naked and barefoot on the border again, to freeze? Where are they gonna buy clothes like that from, which store? This is also very interesting. With the Ministry unable to deliver these clothes in time and clothe the people, which store will they buy them from? That means the clothes are somewhere in storage, and this warehouse is obviously not the Ministry of Interior warehouse. Here we ask the question: is this not an option to circumvent the Public Procurement Act? An additional discussion on this subject. Indeed, they give them these people's clothes, but where will they buy them? We do not get an answer to the basic question: when will the salaries of the employees in the Ministry of Interior be increased? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I was extremely pleased to hear the statements today and in the Commission how we all unite, that this problem of policemen is one of the problems that we can work together without politicizing it without partaking it, and that we have to solve the problems. And at some point, however, there are debates in the Chamber today, and I have decided to address you with one request. Many years ago, we depoliticized the Ministry of Interior. Now let's decompose ourselves from the Ministry of Interior and not make politics out of the problems of Bulgarian policemen. Bulgarian police officers many times over the years, and now prove that there is much more state-owned thinking among them than among some politicians, and this is at the very least bizarre. I am pleased that you will support this proposal. I am pleased that we will thus correct an injustice in the Law, I repeat: in the Law, not in the procedures, not in the financial security, but simply in the Law. The law does not allow uniformed police officers to receive the equivalent of money until now if they are not provided with uniforms. And what could happen? It was also 2014 and 2013. There were no procedures. In other years they were not completed in time. And then, as Mr. Tsvetanov said before me, the employees who were doing their work and doing their activities at the Ministry of Interior in civilian clothing received their financial security for clothes, and the officers who work in uniform could not receive them. And we're putting him up today, but not just that. For us, for the politicians, for the people unrelated to the Ministry of Interior, for example what the government of Mr. Borisov... the falling of limits means the falling of limits. For the police on the street and for the people who sent us here, it means two very important things. The need for a policeman to choose whether to load his car out of his pocket because he has broken the limit and executed the signal or not to comply with the signal. It also eliminates the possibility that at minus 20 degrees or plus 40 degrees, the policeman can't turn on the heat or turn on the air conditioning because it breaks the limit. And that's important when you're on the street all day, when you go and do ghetto searches, you can't help but think about it, but it's done with understanding the problems of policemen, not with their politicization. And I really appeal: when we talk about cops, let's not ride temporary waves, let's not ride temporary things, let's show meaningful work for their solution. And the Ministry is currently doing what hasn't been done for many, many years. [[Noise.]] Yes, yes, why didn't anyone take this measure from 2012 to today? Why? Because there's no understanding. Now we all have an understanding that it has to happen. Let's do this without politics. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Currently, we are looking at perhaps the consequences of the Bachvarova reform, a woman who is highly respected by Mr. Tsvetanov, as far as I know. [[Laughter at Tsvetan Tsvetanov]] which, of course, put on the agenda a reform that was supported and explained to us how good this reform was. Now we are making a change of piece, which shows here is already the political issue that GERB are unable to make reforms. Because there hasn't been a year since it's been, and we are already making changes that de facto had to lead to improving the quality of life, for example, of the people of the Ministry of Interior. Unfortunately, since 2012, these people can't buy clothes. Now the big question is: where will they buy this outfit? What is even more important is whether we really solve next year's problems as well. Guess we don't solve them. But, dear friends, why did it come to this? You have come this far because the Syndicate has threatened a protest and you have reacted to this threat because you are afraid of protests. Isn't that right? If you didn't have that threat, you don't care about people at all. You would not have taken any action so quickly today to look at this Law in plenary. The only thing that frightened you was the Prime Minister's meeting with the Ministry of Interior and the threat of protest. Notice, it was just said here how important it is, how good it is that there are no more limits. But do you remember what the Prime Minister of these chiefs of the Ministry of Interior said, "And be careful not to steal." Is that right? That's insulting. This is the attitude you have towards the people of the interior. These people had to get up and get out and leave the room. That is your attitude towards them. And you want these people to protect small settlements, these people to provide security in the country. This attitude, this line that the Prime Minister missed on the Ministry of Interior officials not to steal, also shows your attitude towards them. When the only way you can turn a positive attitude to them is by protesting, these people are right, these people are really looking for justice. It's true, they were all wrong. We're not talking about left and right here. Fine, but they haven't been paid since 2012. But the big one is you bet on a minister and her name is Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova. A reform that you all carried in your arms. This reform has failed. And the first failure is today. And that shows that you're really incapable. You're incapable of running this Ministry, and people are right. Here how do you say: let's not partivate it, but in the end we are here to solve people's problems, no matter what the sector is. And when you can't decide it, it's a good thing that we are a democratic country, there is a strong opposition that really pressures you to make the right decisions. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u21	[[GERB, from place]] Maybe you can?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u22	Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u23	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoinev, 2013 - 2014, you were also a minister in Oresharski's team and Minister of Interior and Deputy Prime Minister was Tsvetlin Yovchev. [[Reply: by GERB "Unfortunately"]] . You as Minister then, as part of the Council of Ministers along with Minister Jovchev, if you were so concerned, you would have at least carried out the procedures. [[Applause from GERB]] . No procedures were conducted in 2013-2014. Just to say that my colleague Bachvarova, for whom you so badly want to make some intrigue, because you are masters in this direction, they did the impossible to start and catch up. In 2015, there is a closed procedure, there is a signed framework agreement and the police are already beginning to receive their uniforms in the relevant services and in the way that these uniforms are signed. What we are discussing today is not about the reforms in the Ministry of Interior system, but to be able to correct your mistakes [[Applause from GERB]] , in order to get to what we are talking about today, we have a signed framework agreement, there are performers, and at the moment we just want to pay off the unused amount of police in 2013, 2014, 2015. At the moment the police are already getting their uniforms. I don't know how uniformed clothing relates to the reform of the Ministry of Interior. Because if we have to go into the details, I will tell you so many things, but I still want to comply with the call Mrs. Ninova made, not to go back so far, but to go forward. So for the way we started today's meeting, I thanked all the parliamentary groups for the support they gave so that a text that could solve a problem and we united to vote on it could become a fact. And if you want to do some political rhetoric here with such a negative hue, we do not want to participate in this problem and we do not want to participate in this debate. We want to solve the problems of Bulgarian policemen, as we have always done, and I assure you that today the system is much more stable than you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u24	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Tsvetanov! You've been in charge since 2009! You've only been in opposition for a year. And you want me to say that since 2009 it's been BSP's fault?! Well, I'm sorry, but this can't... There's no such insolence, I'd say! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] After all, the only governments that have increased wages in the sector were the BSP governments. And that's the truth! Because the last government, which increased wages in the sector was precisely during the Oresharski government. And that's it! And people know that! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And people know that! As long as you don't care about people's salaries. That's right! Before that, the last biggest increase was 2008 and you know it very well! The bad news is that you have managed.. You personally as Minister, Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova, now again Minister of GERB. The problems are deepening! We here, as a constructive opposition, will vote for this Law, will help you, but at the same time you do not have the capacity to solve the problems in the sector. Thank you. [[Applause in the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u26	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Velkov. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, thank you for listening! I'd like to say an Arab saying. I'll say it in Bulgarian. It is intended for Mr. Tsvetanov. In Bulgarian you will understand it: "Kosmi grew up in my language to explain it to you. During the election campaign, Mr. Tsvetanov, including in a personal meeting with you, I told you that police from the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior have been buying their own uniforms for three years. And on your statement that you would appoint so many thousands of police officers, I told you you couldn't buy them pants. Now we are here for nothing else, we are here to support the fair demands and to show concern to the one who provides the civil security of Bulgaria. Why did it come to this vote today? Because of the motivation and attitude in the Bulgarian police for protests. If they had not declared their will to protest, we would not be voting today. I take the floor to tell you what Mr. Borisov said the other day. He said it to the Ministry's management: Two months you've been taking a nap and I quote it exactly with the accent and you haven't done anything. I don't share it with you that they've been taking a nap, on the contrary, and that I'm giving you $29 million to tell you that you're not giving them the millions, we're giving them all, and to understand that the opposition's decision depends on this process! That is why we will support you and the Bulgarian police will hear us, and how you will hear them on July 5th, this is already your question. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u28	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 754-01-31, submitted by the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 27 June 2017. The first vote. Vote 171 MPs: for 171, against and abstention there is no. The bill was adopted unanimously in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAWPROECTS FOR CHANGE AND ACCEPTANCE OF THE CALLED PROCEEDING CODEX. The People's Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017. First, and the Council of Ministers, a second draft Law, submitted on 13 June 2017. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce us to the Vice-President of the Commission, Parliamentary Representative Dessislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I'd like you to meet: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 702-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 June 2017. At its regular meeting held on 21 June 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Alexander Stefanov from the Ministry of Justice, State Expert at the Department of Law and by the Supreme Court of Cassation Ms. Pavlina Panova Vice-President and Head of the Criminal College; by the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria Mrs. Maria Shishkova Deputy of the Prosecutor General, and by the Supreme Council of Law, Ms. Emilia Nedeva Lawyer. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Alexander Stefanov. The bill aims at introducing measures to significantly speed up the criminal trial, effective justice in corruption crimes at the high levels of power, introducing immediate execution of sentences, as well as additional guarantees for the protection of victims of crime. It is envisaged to improve the rules of rapid and immediate proceedings by establishing a single procedural order for an accelerated investigation in the pre-trial phase and extending its scope. The bill also introduces a remote interrogation of an expert at the initiative of victims of crime. The amendments and additions shall provide for the introduction of an officer's hearing in which matters concerning procedural offences in pre-trial proceedings will be resolved definitively. There is also a provision which obliges the court to declare within what time it will be prepared with the reasons for its sentence. An obligation on the Court of Cassation to send an immediate copy of its decision to the prosecutor for execution in an effective prison. It is proposed, with a view to the competence and greater specialization of the Specialized Criminal Court, to decide cases of high legal and factual complexity. The draft law provides for it to look at corruption crimes for which MPs, ministers, presidents of state bodies, established by law or by decree of the Council of Ministers, the national and territorial leadership of the Customs Agency, members of the Board of Directors of the National Revenue Agency and Territorial Directors, their district managers and deputies, magistrates, members of the Supreme Judicial Council and inspectors, as well as officers of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. Changes in the Code of Criminal Procedure aim at protecting victims of crime, excluding parallel criminal proceedings in Bulgaria and in another EU country. The bill was drafted by the Ministry of Justice in a working group with the participation of representatives of the prosecution, court and lawyering and was discussed at a meeting of the Council on the implementation of the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary. Amendments to the current Criminal Code relating to the need to adopt measures at national level necessary to implement and implement several acts of the European Union are also provided for. Opinions were submitted on the Draft Law of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Council of Laws. The Supreme Court of Cassation's opinion is mostly positive, welcoming legislative amendments aimed at speeding up criminal proceedings. Legislative changes have also been proposed relating to the clarification of existing provisions. The opinion of the Supreme Council of Laws on that bill is negative, according to him, a large part of the proposed changes would have a negative impact on the speed of criminal proceedings and the effectiveness of justice, and another part would have led to a substantial limitation of procedural rights. The discussion was attended by the MPs Simeon Naydenov, Christian Mitev, Krum Zarkov, Dimitar Stoyanov and Daniel Kirilov. Mr. Zarkov and Mr. Stoyanov welcomed the Ministry of Justice's idea of speeding up criminal proceedings and increasing the effectiveness of the fight against corruption, but said they would refrain from voting on the bill. They expressed their disagreement with the introduction of a limitation period in relation to the finding of substantial procedural infringements committed in the pre-trial proceedings, with the newly created obligation of the court to impose an administrative penalty when it was found that the act committed was in fact an administrative infringement, as well as the change in the conviction of corruption cases committed by persons holding a senior state office. Mr. Mitev noted that he approved the new rules for accelerated criminal proceedings, as well as the solution found to overcome the competition between administrative and criminal proceedings. He said the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" would support the proposed bill, but would make proposals to refine some of the provisions within the period between first and second readings. Mr. Kirilov expressed his support for changing the conviction and transfer of high-level corruption cases by the Sofia City Court of the Specialized Criminal Court. On behalf of the Prosecutor's Office, Deputy Prosecutor Ms. Shishkova pointed out that the specialized structures were created precisely in the implementation of the recommendations under the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism and should be used with maximum capacity, calling for consideration of the personnel and material provision of the specialized bodies. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Criminal Procedure Code, No 702-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 June 2017, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Criminal Procedure Code. I'm introducing her. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 754-01-15, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017. At its meeting held on 28 June 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Popov, who pointed out that the proposed amendments aimed at changes in the procedural order for the implementation of the Institute of Early Exemption. It is envisaged that those convicted of imprisonment may themselves decide whether the time has come for early release by proposing that this judgment be carried out by the enforcement authorities. It is also proposed to narrow the criteria for assessing the merits of the application for early exemption by deletion of the provisions of art. 439a, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The bill received a negative opinion from the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee. The discussion was attended by MPs Philip Popov, Simeon Naydenov, Yavor Notev and Daniel Kirilov. Mr. Naydenov noted that the Institute of Early Release is a complex factual composition and there is no distinguishing criterion in the proposals made for which serious crimes will be applied and will therefore not support the submitted bill. Mr. Notev pointed out that the amendments and additions made in 2017 provided only the right to request those deprived of prison for early release and the assessment of this was made by the court. Mr. Kirilov expressed his negative opinion on the Bill, stressing that with the adoption of the amendments to the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Detention in February 2017, the requirements of a number of judgment decisions against the Republic of Bulgaria of the European Court of Human Rights were met. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Issues with 5 votes for.... 10 votes against..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u30	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mr. Vigenin, are you going to introduce him? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 702-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 June 2017. At a meeting held on 21 June 2017, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 702-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 June 2017. The bill was presented to the members of the Commission by Prof. Mr. Nikolay Prodanov, Deputy Minister of Justice, and Mr. Alexander Stefanov, State Expert at the Department of Law at the Ministry of Justice. The proposed amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure aim to speed up procedural developments in the two phases of criminal proceedings, as well as to help overcome the regulatory deficiency of the current legislation, while complying with the requirements of Directive 2012/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 establishing minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA and Council Framework Decision 2009/59/48/JHA of 30 November 2009 on the prevention and settlement of conflicts of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings. This bill provides for amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code on cases relating to high-level corruption, which are monitored with great public attention, as well as by the European Commission. The specialized criminal court will be responsible for corruption crimes involving MPs, ministers, presidents of state bodies established by law or by a decree of the Council of Ministers, the management and territorial heads of the Office of Customs, the head of the National Insurance Institute, the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, the Executive Director and the territorial directors of the National Revenue Agency, the district managers, their deputies, magistrates, the members of the Supreme Judicial Council and the inspectors of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. In order to fully transpose Directive 2012/29/EU into the Code of Criminal Procedure, new provisions on specific needs for witness protection shall be introduced. A special basis shall be provided for the appointment of expertise in such cases and the taking of appropriate measures to avoid contact with the accused in the course of questioning, including through the use of a video conference or telephone conference. This is particularly important in specific vulnerable categories of persons such as minors and witnesses. It is also envisaged that the Code of Criminal Procedure will introduce the requirements of Framework Decision 2009/948/JHA. As an expression of legal cooperation between Member States, it should increase the effectiveness of criminal prosecutions and, at the same time, ensure good justice in accordance with the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions in criminal matters. The aim is to prevent cases where the same person may be subject to parallel criminal proceedings in different Member States for the same facts, which threatens to give more than one final decision in each of those proceedings. The bill also regulates the order in which inquiries in criminal matters are made for a preliminary ruling. The reference for a preliminary ruling, as one of the fundamental mechanisms of European Union law, shall be made available to all Member States to ensure the uniform interpretation and application of law within the Union. Last but not least, the Transitional and Final Provisions provide for an addition to the Administrative Procedure Code to enable administrative courts to make inquiries for a preliminary ruling in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters to the Court of Justice of the European Union in accordance with the newly created Chapter thirty-seven in the Criminal Procedure Code. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Christian Vigenin, Petar Petrov and Dimitar Avramov. Deputy Minister Prodanov and Mr. Stefanov answered their questions regarding the need to introduce the proposed amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, explaining that some of them are in the implementation of the recommendations to Bulgaria within the framework of the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism. The representatives of the Ministry of Justice assured the MPs that they are working seriously and deeply to drop the Mechanism as soon as possible. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed unanimously that the National Assembly adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 702-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 June 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Dear Members of Parliament, we have heard the reports of the committees through which the bill was passed before it was submitted for first reading in plenary. I'm opening the discussion on both bills at the same time. Are there any statements on the bill that has just been presented? But, first, Mr. Popov on behalf of the importers of the second bill, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In short, I will present the second Draft Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, namely concerning changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which led to changes in the procedural procedure for the application of the Institute of Early Exemption. These changes obviously did not give the necessary effect. On the contrary, according to us, the importers of this bill have exactly the opposite, negative effect in society. By granting the convict the right to refer to the court after the expiry of a certain period, it has been achieved to ensure that the court is in practice access to convicted persons on certain grounds and for particularly serious crimes which have been in the focus of civil society and have caused an extremely negative public reaction. In practice, the provision of the right of any convicted person to submit an application to the court following the expiry of the minimum sentence prescribed in Articles 70 and 71 of the Penal Code respectively has led to the possibility for persons convicted of serious crimes, such as kidnapping, to be granted an early release. Here is not implemented, in our opinion, one of the main functions of criminal law, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as well, namely prevention. Because the feeling in society is about impunity. A serious crime is committed, a few years in prison, and then at the request of the criminal, he can hypothetically be released. This power is given to him, depends on his will and not on the authorities that should be watching for punishment. In recent months you know what similar cases in Bulgaria have had with very severe social consequences, which has led to practical and shaking the foundations of criminal law in the minds of the Bulgarian society, precisely because it does not perform one of its main functions to lead to justice and prevention. That is why we have tabled this bill and we hope that you will support it. It is necessary for the development of criminal law in Bulgaria because after the experience that was made to change the Code of Criminal Procedure, it was shown that this experience did not work. As regards the cost-benefit analysis, the adoption of the Law is not related to any additional funds. The administrative burden and structural changes will not be necessary as a result of the adoption of the legislative initiative, no additional administrative burden will arise, no new fees or other burdens will be introduced for members of civil society. As regards its impact on the legal framework, the need for changes to other regulations will not arise as a result of the adoption of the legislative initiative. That is why we ask you to support this Bill at first reading. Of course, between first and second readings, if you do not agree with some of the changes, you can also make your proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u34	Thank you, Mr. Popov. For the presentation of the other project submitted by the Council of Ministers, is there anyone willing to take part? I was looking for Mr. Tzipov. Mr. Kirilov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I cannot present the Draft Law to the Council of Ministers on behalf of an importer, but please, in the form of a statement, allow me to present the main accents in this Draft.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u36	That's right, Mr. Kirilov. Let's start with the speeches. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will start by saying that this bill was developed in a working group at the Ministry of Justice in the last term by two ministers of justice, both by one minister Hristo Ivanov, so subsequently the work on this bill continued by Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva. The bill responds to the fundamental need to speed up the criminal process, to overcome the possibility for the actors to deviate from the punishment, including in this matter, and this work included an up-to-date problem which concerned the implementation of the principle of..non bis in idemi................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Colleagues who were in the last parliament know that on this issue we submitted a bill which was signed by representatives of all the parliamentary groups in the Forty-third National Assembly, that is, in principle, this work received the general support of all the parliamentary groups at that time. If there is a debate, I am ready to discuss all the opinions that have been received so far by the institutions concerned, including the Supreme Court of Cassation, including by the Supreme Council of Law, which point to the need in the first case to improve certain provisions, and by the Supreme Council of Law, the opinions are more extreme and critical, but I declare that we are prepared to make proposals between first and second readings, moreover, which are in line with the current status of what I have achieved in the interdepartmental working group, which I mentioned at the beginning of this statement. If any of the speakers also comment on the issues of defendants in relation to those holding senior positions in the state and the question of the intervention sitting, which focused an intense debate on the Legal Committee, I will try to take an opinion, although I will no longer be able to speak, but in the form of lines. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u38	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Orders have been made on the left, but please come in at the order of the requests. [[Noise and lines.]] There are no requests for lines. That was a bit of a weird performance. Mr. Kirilov made this agreement to move on to speeches. He presented the Bill with a statement, as far as Mr. Tzipov was not here. We looked around for representatives of the importers... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u39	Minister Tsacheva wanted to attend. Looks like there's a problem...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u40	We continue with the speeches. I've already announced that we started them on the occasion of Mr. Kirilov's speech. Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I will address and speak on the bill submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, the current Bill is dictated only by the desire to change the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code, respectively, to another Law that we have tabled. It was a corollary to this one, and we expected them to walk together, as they were referring to a change in legislation that was made literally on the last day of the Forty-third National Assembly and concerning the way in which those convicted, especially for serious crimes, had the opportunity to apply for early release. There is an opportunity for them to wish themselves, under certain conditions, to submit applications to the competent court, before the prison administration to be released early. There has been an extremely unpleasant case in our society in which convicted of particularly serious crimes have been given the opportunity, and they have been given the opportunity to be released at first instance. I would like to ask Mr. Tsvetanov here specifically and his parliamentary group. Why was this Bill rejected in the Legal Commission by your group, Mr. Tsvetanov? Because our proposal aimed to restore the sense of justice to those people who were being abducted, those people who went out on national media and expressed their dissatisfaction with the fact that the people who held them captive, who tortured them, who abused them, now have the real opportunity to re-enter society under the assumption that they are already integrated, that they have already endured the necessary punishment and, you see, can be normal members of our society. I do not know here how the government will stand again in front of these people and explain that the bill has been rejected and enables precisely the same people to go out again and ask the competent court to be released early, provided that the severity of the punishment imposed on them is adequate to the crime committed and it is necessary to execute their sentence to the extent necessary, and at the same time the changes made in January 2017 will once again enable them to become active members of our society? I really do not know and will ask here for answers, including as a request for a reply: how will you stand before your constituents, before the Bulgarian citizens and explain why these people are again given the opportunity to go to court and ask for an early release and if the necessary requirements of the Law are met, to be released early? How will it feel to be the people who have been kidnapped who have been abused, who have not yet been found where the money they have given for the ransoms is? How do you respond, gentlemen? That is what I want to know from you, because our proposal is nothing more than to deprive those people who have broken the order, violated the laws and caused extreme damage to public relations, to be among us again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u42	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? Mr. Kirilov is making a request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I was invited by you for this line. If you remember, here, the last two months, when the problem that you spoke about escalated into the public domain, I was placed in the situation to explain the meaning of the changes made, which were with the Law on the Execution of Punishments. Nothing in terms of early release, Mr. Ivanov, and you as a good legal penalist know it hasn't changed. The only change is that we have complied with the requirements of the European Court of Justice and 26 decisions to allow the convicted person of imprisonment to have the opportunity alone to submit a request for early release. Because until that time, until the amendment in January 2017, the convicted person suffering imprisonment had not been able to make a request on his behalf. There have been many complaints both to the court and to the Legal Commission, and everywhere, that this person has been taken away, that it depends on the action of some committee, that this Commission can act by law, but no one knows exactly how it acts. The other amendment was that we customized the responsibility of everyone who issued an opinion to the court, because the court would decide whether there would be an early release and, respectively, in exchange for this punishment or not. The body that decides this issue is the court. Prerequisites for early release are enhanced, not minimalized. I see you're giving me a sign that time is running out. I have many explanations on this matter. You invited me. If you want, I'll finish the explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u44	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We should have given Mr. Kirilov the opportunity to develop his answer. I think it's in everyone's best interest. Are there any other lines? I don't see a sign. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov. You're ready for the dowel.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Kirilov! They let them go, Mr. Kirilov, and the door to let them go again is wide open because the criteria that are set in the latest changes in the PPC are extremely wide, like a door in the field. The reasons with which these amendments were introduced at the time were not exactly the European Union's requirements that the places for accommodation of prisoners did not meet the requirements, and this is the government's commitment, the Ministry of Justice, to make normal conditions for the residence of the convicted persons. I ask again: how will you respond to those who have suffered, and those who have been kidnapped, that we continue to give the people who have abused them, to ask for this or next week, or to be released again in a month? How will we meet this requirement? I really want to know was Mr. Tsvetanov sincere then on television when he was so dramatic in expressing his views against such things? Once again, this bill was related to another Law which amended the Penal Code that we introduced, and had to be dealt with together, where it was not at all possible for those severely condemned to want the right to be released under specified conditions, something that was done at the time. If you take this step: to reject this Bill, tomorrow we will be witnessing again how these....... as you called them, and.. Killers will stand trial and demand because they have proved in their sole discretion that they are fit to be released and released into society. What will follow from there will be your responsibility, my dear. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u46	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Dear Members of Parliament, there was another request for a speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u47	Honourable Members, I join in the discussions on the second PPC amendment bill, made by MPs from our parliamentary group. Many may be the arguments for supporting such a bill. I'll try to draw your attention to a few of them. As of February 2017, when the amendment was made by the previous National Assembly and the possibility was given to those convicted of serious crimes themselves to ask, there was an opportunity for an independent body outside the head of the prison, namely the district attorney, who, you know, is a member of the judiciary to make such a request. However, such a request is made not only when the minimum time limits for early release have expired, but also when the person is found to have fulfilled these prerequisites, namely with his behaviour in everyday life, with compliance with the order in the prison place to have shown that he has changed. It is precisely the assessment made by another body to which the law has made the requirement to control the conduct of imprisonment that I believe is relevant. Next, it should not be forgotten that we are talking about people who are currently convicted, with an effective sentence for a serious crime committed at the time of the request for early release, are being prosecuted for crimes, that is to say, the public is currently applying to them correction measures. It is quite normal for a body entrusted with carrying out these measures to assess the extent to which the person is subject to criminal coercion, the purposes of criminal coercion, so that it is logical to have such an assessment. Those are my arguments. I ask you to support the proposal for amendment to the PPC and to return the situation, because public pressure is also very strong, as my colleague before me said, for individuals with serious crimes against society to judge themselves that they have changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u48	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Are there any lines regarding Mr. Milkov's statement? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other speeches? Mr. Popov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, a few words regarding the bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. On the one hand, we welcome the desire to speed up criminal proceedings and increase the effectiveness of the fight against corruption, but on the other hand, we have some principled and substantial remarks regarding this bill. We disagree with the introduction of a limitation period in relation to the finding of material procedural infringements committed in pre-trial proceedings, with the newly created obligation of the court to impose administrative punishment, as well as with the change in the conviction of cases of corruption committed by persons holding senior government positions. The creation of a designated court solely on the basis of the functionality of a particular citizen, i.e. in view of his position, does not seem appropriate and constitutional to us. When you hold a certain position, yes, first, the crime should be guilty, of course, and it should be composite. These are the basic principles of crime. However, when the person holds a certain position, it is also a senior government position, it may be a qualifying circumstance, but it is not an excuse to set up a target court, because there is a taste of an extraordinary court here, which, you know, is prohibited by the Constitution. For these reasons, we will refrain from supporting at first reading the proposed bill. With regard to the bill that we have tabled from the BSP for Bulgaria. Dear Members of the National Assembly, what are the main functions of law? The crime is the main legal fact of criminal law, because the crime is the main legal fact that gives rise to criminal liability. Of course, the act, that is, action or inaction, should be composite. In terms of society. The penalties imposed should be fair, because it is only in this way that criminal law can ensure its general prevention that it affects the rest of the members of society. Yes, the imprisoned has his rights, no doubt. But where does prevention go? Where are the victims' rights? Where does justice end up? Where is the safety of the victims of this crime and of the entire society? It is natural that punishment will have a desire for freedom, subjective feeling that it has been corrected and should be released early. However, the correction of the criminal should be placed in the will of other legal entities, bodies monitoring for the execution of the punishment, bodies with objective, not subjective judgment, the sense of the criminal that he has corrected himself with an objective assessment of the correction of the criminal figure. That is why we have made this proposal, which is why we want your support for this proposal. It concerns the fundamental principles and functions of criminal law that I have already mentioned, one of which is the justice and security of society as a whole, as well as the prevention of future crimes by other members of society, seeing in practice this impunity. That's how I'm going to finish my speech. Again, I call on you: support this bill. The society in Bulgaria needs it. Only in words to fight crime was it domestic, organized crime, things will not happen because the feeling in the Bulgarian society is at the very opposite pole of the wishes and demonstrations you make by the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u50	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Any lines to Mr. Popov's statement? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Tsvetanov. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u51	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think that there should be no speculation on this subject, but we should really look for the most pragmatic and the best for society and actually have real retribution for those who have committed serious crimes. We all know how this change in the PPC and the norm that we are currently discussing. You know that right now, before and in the future, the court will be the one to decide whether or not someone should be released early. Since there is serious sensitivity in society and we can be misled by manipulative submission of the facts and circumstances, the parliamentary group of GERB will support the two bills and the bill submitted by the BSP for Bulgaria. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I am convinced that in a constructive dialogue between first and second readings, additional consultations, meetings will be made, expert opinions will be taken from the Ministry of Justice, of course, and NGOs, because we should in no case have any differences on this subject. We must seek the consensus that can give us the opportunity to be useful with the decisions we make here in Parliament. Indeed, let us look for more political consensus in the bills that are adopted. Colleagues, I suggest we put it to the vote if there are no other speeches, of course. I believe that the essential professional debate should be held between first and second readings. After talks that I have also had with the Chair of the Legal Commission, he will create the necessary environment to make this dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u52	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any lines regarding the speech of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov? I don't see any line requests. Are there any other statements? Let us assume that we agree to the proposed proposal, albeit informally. I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. We conclude the discussion of the two bills and move on to their vote. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the House to vote. We will vote separately on the two bills. The first bill under the order of submission is No 750-01-58 from 14 June 2017. Importer is the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please vote. Vote 160 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 58. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, we are going to vote on the second draft Law No 750-01-42 from 1 June 2017. Kornelia Ninova and a group of MPs are importing. Vote 160 MPs: 155, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] Mr. Kirilov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In view of the debate and, as Mr. Tsvetanov said, the need for a wider expert debate on the adopted bills at first reading, I propose that the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on these bills be ten days after we announce the joint report on the two bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u54	Thanks for the offer. I hope that everyone in the Chamber understood Mr. Kirilov's proposal, it is in the name of better preparation, before a second reading in the Chamber of the two bills, which will be submitted with a joint report. Please vote on Mr. Kirilov's proposal. Anyone who agrees with this proposal, please state their vote. They voted 153 MPs: for 152, against 1, no abstentions. The proposal to extend the period between first and second readings has been accepted. Thank you. With this, we exhausted the legislative program before the break. Rest until 11 o'clock when we continue with parliamentary control of the pre-declared order. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u55	Dear colleagues! Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 23 June 2017 to 29 June 2017: 1. There has been an inquiry from the MPs Halil Letifov, Errol Mehmed, Sergei Kichikov, Ihsan Hakka to Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, on a policy of the Ministry of Education and Science on road safety. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 7 July 2017. 2. A question was received from the MPs Anelia Klisarova, Ivo Hristov, Nikolay Tsonkov, Stoyan Mirchev to Krasimir Valchev The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 7 July 2017. 3. A question has been received by the MPs Ilian Timchev, Georgi Yordanov and Valentina Naydenova to Nikolay Petrov on the implementation of projects for modernization and training in emergency care and a comprehensive strategy for the development of emergency medical care. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 7 July 2017. Written answers from: - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Yordan Mladenov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Veselin Mareshki; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Boryana Georgieva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Nikolai Sirakov and Iglika Sabeva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Rumen Georgiev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Irena Anastasova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the MPs Vesela Lecheva and Ivan Chenchev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva. [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] Procedure? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u56	Mr. Chairman, I asked for a procedure on the grounds of art. 99 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which states that the questions are mandatory within 14 days of their registration, with the possibility that the Prime Minister may request a extension of the period of not more than seven days from these 14. On the basis of art. 96 The President of the National Assembly shall immediately inform the Prime Minister of the questioning and inform him of the meeting to which he must answer. I'm emphasising the word I have to. Why? I asked Prime Minister Boyko Borisov on June 5th. Fourteen days under regulations plus seven days to delay expired on June 26th. Get to the point. My question is about the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency and the position of the Prime Minister and the government on the five scenarios for the development of Europe proposed in the White Paper. In recent days, we have dealt with the Presidency at another very low level of public procurement, tile, suspicions of corruption and so on. Colleagues, we are missing a great chance for Bulgaria. We would like to raise the issue of policies and priorities, and this is a way to save the Presidency. I therefore urge you, Mr. Chairman, to at least meet the requirements of the Rules of Procedure in art. 101, which says that the Prime Minister is obliged to, I stress again the word, to appear personally before the National Assembly within 10 days and to explain the failure to fulfil his obligation. Mr. Glauchev, the 10-day deadline for this legal text expires next Thursday. I demand that you provide the Prime Minister personally, as the Law requires, to come to explain why he is not implementing it and to try together to really implement the policies of the European Presidency as a priority. Because, colleagues, on this topic, we have announced from the first day that you have our support, so will remain until the last, but on policies and priorities, and not on public procurement, theft and dealing. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. The Prime Minister used his right to postpone by a week.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u58	It's leaking!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u59	It's expired, yes. The next two weeks, as today, as well as the previous one is in international participations, international meetings precisely in relation to the Presidency. There are letters, I read them to you yesterday and last Thursday. The media actually reflects what's happening, and I think you might be able to understand. But if not... [[Relations of MP Cornelia Ninova.]] Thank you. We continue with a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u60	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A few days ago, once again, we witnessed brutal aggression in Asenovgrad, which the Movement for Rights and Freedoms strongly and strongly condemns. We call for urgent action to be taken by the competent authorities in the country. The tension that followed in itself is a worrying sign of the state of society and it is high time that we all looked reality in the eye and shared efforts to ensure the peaceful future for our children. Once again, we state that we condemn any form of aggression, and once again we alarm and raise the question of the prerequisites that create this type of aggression in society. To combat aggression, we must overcome the prerequisites that create such a pattern of behavior. When the state tolerates people who publicly demonstrate their hatred and have aggressive behavior, this is a certain signal to society. The imposition of hate language, the planting of hatred, the officialisation of hatred is about to create a problem of democracy in our country. And not only! The symptoms are more than disturbing. What do I mean by that? It's very clear: Fire is not extinguished with gasoline. I'm just going to point out a few headlines in the media. The Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov postponed three sides to deal with the gypsies in Asenovgrad. Again from the media: The state authorities have full political support... [[Reply from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u61	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u62	To hunt down the bullies in Asenovgrad house by house in the gypsy neighborhood. There are no compromises within this government, and there will continue to be a different approach to interethnic problems. "This is what Simeonov said at a meeting with protesters citizens in Asenovgrad. He explained that the incident in the area of the dam "The Four Years of Springs" occurred on a domestic basis, but grew into ethnic opposition. That's also a quote from the media. Regardless of our warnings, we observe neglecting the problem of aggression in general in society, manifestations and acts of hatred and ethnic opposition. We will not give up on the problem of solving it. We also want a debate on these issues both in our Parliament and in the European Parliament. We should not waste our chance after 28 years of peaceful transition to throw away what we have achieved and ignore a working unique formula that has received international recognition: Bulgarian ethnic model. We of the DPS want to state our understanding of the competent state authorities. They must do their jobs calmly and professionally without allowing political interference. When so professionally fulfilling their highly responsible state functions, the authorities do not need political support. It is due to them and it is always so, whether they pursue acts of deputy prime ministers or ordinary citizens. I refer again to the main political power that is responsible for the country's governance. The lack of the first seven years, said in the lightest form, will not reduce the responsibility of the greatest political force. And we're not talking in a distant perspective, we're talking soon. Who gives the Deputy Prime Minister a mandate to define the incident as ethnic opposition and even at a time like this again to oppose individual groups with phrases, quote from the media: I am on your side, and not just me!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u63	What about the bullies?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u64	Dear main rulers, let us not forget that there is a law and while an investigation is under way, early conclusions and findings are rather suggestions and are not in the interest of authority of the authorities and can very much harm. I will stop by referring to the law without commenting on the fundamental principles enshrined in our Constitution. Otherwise, I should ask: to push, and if I use a quote: to push away an elderly woman or people from an entire bus and not to be responsible, on what basis is it? I will not continue with the demonstration of disregard for fundamental rights and the law in whose interest it is. I will leave without comment even the statement that within this governance there is and will continue to have a different approach to interethnic problems. This statement carries an additional charge and is rather associated with another other than solving the problem. There is a basis for this, created throughout the entire existence of the specific political formation and its representation. Main carriers of responsibility, our questions are rather and mainly to you: let us condemn aggression and hatred in their various manifestations, let us demand the enforcement of the law and the punishment of the found guilty persons for such acts. At the same time, to demand that each body within the limits of its competence act and rule within the limits of its legal competences and not forget the main mission as politicians to calm society, so that no further tensions are raised. And one more thing, to note that penal responsibility is also personal because of the ethnicity of guilty persons or criminals to impose collective responsibility on entire ethnic groups is extremely dangerous and contrary to the law. And not only should we not tolerate, but we must cross any possibility of such suggestion. There's no need to repeat: a gasoline fire is not extinguished. Otherwise, there will no longer be a need to raise the question: is there a country that guarantees the rights and freedoms of its citizens? Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The movement for rights and freedoms, strongly condemning any manifestation of division and hatred, any demonstration of intolerance, ethnic and religious opposition, calls on the National Assembly to support our declaration and all competent authorities to immediately take measures to punish the perpetrators. It is high time to debate the state of democracy in the country, the state of society, the various forms of aggression, the threat to peace and democracy in the country and the measures the state is taking to address the problem. Peace and democracy are values that we must defend with all our strength. There is nothing more important than the understanding and peaceful co-existence of all ethnicities in the country so that we can make progress with joint efforts together. It is the duty and responsibility of all politicians, of all authorities in the country, of all citizens! With the greatest force this applies to those in power and ruling the state. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u65	Honorable Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Two consecutive declarations by a parliamentary group within three days, first, qualifying one event, today they want us to qualify another event. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent days, tensions have escalated in Asenovgrad, provoked by the outrage of a self-forgotten group of gypsies, who arrogantly and with particular audacity, according to the prosecution's accusation. If what happened at the dam is a horrificly daring accident, then the subsequent fight in front of the hospital in the city, where a crowd of about 150 Gypsies dealt with the already injured children, their parents and insolently, cynically and brutally demonstrate impunity, then the gypsies from the neighborhood of Loznitsa in Asenovgrad are the next ones who have shown clearly that they live in a parallel country, that they have no fear of the law and that they are only subject to the rules of their tribal family. These insolent acts of violence are a result of the almost 30 - year - old state's policy of tolerance for iniquities, giving this ethnic group unlimited rights, without obligation. Who's at the heart of this? Everyone knows the answer to a "liberal political formation that supposedly fights for rights and freedoms" and a plethora of pseudoliberals who attack the authorities of the state with spells of discrimination, xenophobia and in any attempt to impose any order to challenge it. The same ones, whose pockets flowed millions of levs of all grant schemes, successfully mastered hundreds of millions for Roma inclusion, and as an inheritance of their actions left hundreds of ghettos, such as plagues on Bulgaria's snagga; left an illiterate and straggled population whose allegiance to vote during elections cost them small money. Let us state clearly: they, the pseudo-liberals, the pseudo-protectives of human rights, defamating Bulgaria in the European Union and defending the Gypsy of our country, are the foundation of the ghetto law to question the law of the state. They are the reason for Katunitsa, Garmen, Asenovgrad. Ladies and gentlemen, 10 years ago in the district of Molenbek (Molenbek) in European Belgium and its capital city Brussels, the state withdrew and there was no police. As a result, the population was radicalised and liberal European tolerance was blown up at the airport on 22 March 2016. We remind you that the Bulgarian state withdrew from the slums in Bulgaria and the sprouts of radical Islam have grown in the neighborhoods of Pazardzhik, Plovdiv and Asenovgrad. The case of radical Islam has been going on for years and sentences have been inadequately low. In view of everything so far, we, as part of the ruling majority, state categorically that all necessary measures must be taken and with absolute integrity to ensure public order. We will direct all efforts of the state to impose a sense of statehood, order and law in every corner of our homeland! The state must take all action to remove illegal houses from the neighborhood in Asenovgrad, and everywhere else and remove all those people who do not have their registered addresses and have illegally settled in. All necessary measures must be taken to restore order and show firm determination that all Bulgarian citizens have the same rights but also the same obligations. Patience for any wrongdoing today will explode tomorrow as we see in Western Europe. Thank you. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov, in the manner of conduct, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u67	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I take the way I conduct myself. Mr. Chairman, you have allowed the Bulgarian citizens from the highest tribune in the Republic of Bulgaria to be assigned to a community and to disturb them in the rudest way. Because you do not call the person who attacked the women of the Deputy Chief Mufti in the Republic of Bulgaria,...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u68	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u69	...why don't you call the child who attacked the teacher and called her a fascist salute?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u70	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u71	Yeah, the way you run it. Mr. Chairman, you are the first among equals, so do not let the MPs qualify Bulgarian citizens with offensive words, because this is not acceptable in the Bulgarian Parliament! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u72	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Once again, I will express my conviction that when there is a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group, I will not interfere with what is said on its behalf. If it were an individual statement, although I've given a lot of thought at times to make a remark, but if you say what word is offensive by all the words I've said here... But let's not get into an argument. Here you are, for a declaration, Mr. Stoynev, on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u73	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, on Wednesday, the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BGN) voted for the proposal of GERB and the United patriots for the increase of the minimum pension from 1 July to 180 BGN. And 200 leva. October 1st. This change will feel about 600,000 pensioners and with this the government's income policy in 2017 has been exhausted. Doesn't sound like a cause for pride, but it's probably appropriate for public praises and reporting activity. We supported you, colleagues of the ruling majority, because 2 million and 200,000 Bulgarian pensioners are really not responsible that you can and are seriously exhale in the income policy. We also supported you because of the people our mothers and fathers who built this country, although you voted against the proposal of the BSP for Bulgaria. This proposal would have solved injustice and removed the large scissors between the old and the newly released pensions. Thus, people who practiced the same profession and had the same insurance service would have received much fairer income for their year-round work. The difference between your and our proposal is infinitely clear. Yours is an easy decision, with a small and controversial effect supporting only those who have been least correct to the insurance system. The second, our proposal, fellow Members, is now politics. The scary thing here is not only the attitude towards pensioners, but that the majority in the Bulgarian Parliament is satisfied with imitation of politics and decision per piece. It is scary that you do not think about the overall income policy, the future of the pension and insurance system. Colleagues, for a few minutes, abstrate that you are ruling. Do you remember how during the election campaign you traveled the country with promises of a minimum pension of 300 BGN. and to recalculate all pensions as a reasonable and necessary measure? You've already forgotten what you promised today. The scariest thing about politics is lying to voters and not keeping your promises. [[Comments from GERB and OP.]] Let the colleagues from GERB and the United Patriarchs return to the reality of the facts as they are close to BGN 39. more will receive only 547 thousand pensioners, and the remaining million and a half Bulgarian pensioners will receive nothing. With their wording in the priorities for governance in the formation of the government GERB and the United Patriarchs, it is clear that they have no intention of fulfilling their commitment to the vast majority of Bulgarian pensioners. Moreover, they cynically oppose pensioners for retirement and the age of pensioners with disability pensions: we will give the good by punishing the bad. But if there are any misaligned disability pensions, it is the government's fault, and GERB has managed 7 of the last 8 years. In the mid-term budget forecast for the period 2018 - 2020, uploaded on the website of the Ministry of Finance in May 2017, i.e. several months ago, all social payments are again frozen. It shows that the government plans for the following years that the increase in pensions will be within about 2.5% per year. This will lead to an increase in poverty and inequalities, a growing and growing lag in employment pensions for persons with the same social contribution. Once again, generations and groups of people are opposed. Is this guaranteeing foresight and peace of mind for people in the long term, as you have written in your management intentions because you do not have a program? Moreover, colleagues, since yesterday there is a new scandal that is raging and will erupt. Therefore, we will insist that Dr. Glinka Komitov be heard in plenary because he resigned yesterday. It's about the manager of the NHIF. A new scandal that you may be the people who created it, and we want to understand the reason for its resignation and why man cannot cope with your rule.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u74	Personal reasons.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u75	By GERB and the United Patriarchs you often ask us the question about our policy for increasing pensions. Now let me remind you how we have assisted Bulgarian citizens. In 2008, for the first time since 1 July, the Swiss rule was introduced to update pensions in accordance with inflation and the growth of the insurance income. Since 1 October 2008, all pensions have been recalculated with the average social security income for 2007. This has led to an average increase in retirement and age pensions by 22%. In 2009 the minimum pension for insurance and age increased by 10% from 1 January. From 1 April, the weight ratio for each year of insurance service increased from 1 to 1.1%. This led to a new increase in pensions. From 1 April increased the amount of the maximum pension from 490 to 700 BGN. Since July 1st, 9% has updated pensions. For the entire management term 2005, the amount of the minimum pension has doubled. The average pension rate, colleagues, has increased by 90%. The maximum pension rate has increased by 67%. The payment of Christmas supplements for pensioners has begun. Notice the amount of 150 leva. for each Bulgarian Parliament. The Government of Oresharski June 2013 August 2014 The Swiss rule has been restored, which you proudly froze during your 2009 management. The minimum and maximum amount of pensions increased. The unwarranted increase in insurance service and retirement age has been halted, a truly disastrous reform that you are continuing to this day. We state that internship and age will be frozen. That's politics, ladies and gentlemen. The parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is demanding a comprehensive policy for the development of the pension and social security system and for the reclaiming of all pensions as part of this policy. You're asking us: where's the money? In the noisyly advertised budget surplus or in the Sanitation Program, for which there are billions of levs, but also so many doubts about spending the funds. The pensions in Bulgaria are low. They're a big part of the critical poverty line. And the tallest ones are hard enough for a decent life, for food, medicine, bills. We keep saying that, but unfortunately, you don't understand it. That's why we give you one more motive - the low income of pensioners is also a problem for their children. The active generation, which must provide its own children, is forced to separate to help its parents. Thus another huge group of society is involved in this problem and will suffer from your short-sighted management policy. We're all chosen here together to make politics, not to imitate care as you do. Improving people's lives is the great goal of the BSP for Bulgaria. I sincerely hope that one day this goal will finally be yours. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Another affidavit. On behalf of the political party's parliamentary group, Volja is given the floor by the people's representative Veselin Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! For no one it is a secret to plunder the budgets of hospitals, when in different hospitals for the same medicine is paid at times more expensive than in other hospitals. It's the same as robbing the Ministry of Interior's fuel budget. I asked Mr. Radev a question and I will allow myself to read you the answer. The answer is the question: at different prices within 40 cm. difference in different regions, does the Ministry of Interior take advantage of these prices, or does it pay anywhere at the highest possible price, and do we actually all pay the highest price to fill the cartel's pockets? And listen to the answer: The purchase of car fuels for the needs of the Ministry of Interior is carried out by cards for non-personal payment through the conclusion of a contract for central supplies. The negotiation of trade concessions from durable commercial prices in fuel supplies is carried out in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. The choice of the contractor for the delivery of car fuels through cards is made by the central purchasing body of the Ministry of Finance according to the order of a member. The Ministry of Interior, as an individual contracting entity, shall conduct minimum procedures for the supply of fuels through invitations to selected suppliers on the basis of a framework agreement concluded between them and the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria following a public procurement procedure under the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria. The annual fuel consumption is different throughout the years and is determined by different factors such as the number of structures, the number of cars, criminogenic, weather, political and any other environment. As for your question concerning contracts concluded and with which stations I inform you of the following: yes, there are contracts concluded, but not with gas stations, but with selected suppliers meeting a set of criteria for the needs of the public administration in a certain order. Contracts are generally available on the official website in the profile of buyer, contracting entity and so on. Did you find out anything? [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I didn't understand anything either. [[Laughter, excitement.]] And the Bulgarian people understood nothing. But this is related to these events that are currently also in Asenovgrad, because with a plundered budget of the employees of the Ministry of Interior by one, second, or third cartel or monopoly, there is actually no money left to motivate the employees to do their job and not to allow these things. And while it is normal for cartel scholarships like Valyo Ahchiev, or the Revisor to extract normal information, or to conceal the correct information, I ask: there is censorship, the inability of the Interior Minister to reach the information or fear of getting the real information out that currently in regions where the cost of a column is 40 cents lower, the Ministry of Interior pays 40 cents more. We pay 40 pennies more to rob the Ministry of Interior's money and fill the cartel's pockets. I therefore call on the Prime Minister to give his Minister of Interior his back, to give him the strength, and if he has the courage to come out and show us the real things so that we can actually understand what is happening to some of our and the entire Bulgarian people money. Thank you. [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. This was also a declaration on behalf of the political party's parliamentary group. We move on to the debate: The first is about asking the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Ivan Genov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova about the current policy of the Ministry of Energy for guaranteeing the electricity security of Bulgaria. At the inquiry by the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov and the National Representative Ivan Genov was answered at the meeting on 16 June 2017, Friday. At the same meeting, 51 MPs from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with the Draft Decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next meeting on parliamentary control 23 June 2017, but due to the absence from the country of the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova, the President of the National Assembly reschedules the debates on the questioning for the next meeting of parliamentary control 30 June 2017, namely today. The proposal for debate on the inquiry and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 16 June 2017, Friday. A second draft for a decision by eight MPs from the political party GERB parliamentary group on 29 June 2017, Thursday and the same was sent on the same day to the MPs in electronic form. Drafts submitted for a decision to be voted on: 1. Draft decision submitted by 51 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.The decision was No 754-36 on 16 June 2017, registered at 9 o'clock and 39 minutes. 2. Second Project submitted by eight MPs from the political party GERB parliamentary group, with No 754-02-63 from 29 June 2017, registered at 14 o'clock and 56 minutes. From the Project importers, you have the floor, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, our question, as has been noted, which was done on 16 June 2017 and which is growing in today's debates, has been triggered by the latest European Commission decisions on the sharp limitation of greenhouse gases issued by energy. You are aware that these restrictions in practice mean the closure of the TPPs in Bulgaria and a blow to over 10,000 employees in the state enterprises in this sector. To them we should add about 3000 people employed at TPP 1 and 3 in Brickel. In addition, many small and medium-sized enterprises work in the region, serving the activities of energy enterprises. In fact, it is more than 100,000 actively employed in this region, which will remain on the street if adequate and timely measures are not taken. For information from the MPs in the Chamber, I will mention that yesterday was a meeting of the Energy Committee together with the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment and Ministers Temenuzhka Petkova and Neno Dimov, representatives of the Mini Maritsa East, of TPP 1, 2 and 3 on this issue, and I will not hide that I am satisfied with this meeting of the Energy Commission and of the stated by you, Mrs. Minister, readiness the government of the Republic of Bulgaria to work to preserve the lives of the thermal power plants, knowing what this means not only as jobs, but also as structurally defining for our economy. Madam Minister, the problems of electricity security cannot be limited to or exhausted only with the problems of coal plants and mines, and the problems of energy security can be identified only with electricity. Today we, as a country, are facing a huge challenge to ensure not only Bulgaria's electricity security, but to guarantee at all the security of energy supplies, including gas and oil. If today we do not take the right action, if we as politicians today do not find the right solutions and we do not unite around them, tomorrow the next generations will not forgive us for this. Energy is a highly innovative system and the decisions and actions taken today have their results and consequences after and for decades. If today we are tempted to politicalize, if we put our national interest behind us again and lower ourselves without trying to protect it, tomorrow Bulgaria will have no base capacities. Tomorrow Bulgaria will become Europe's gas appendicitis, which can easily and painlessly be cut off. Tomorrow instead of being one of the energy distribution centres in Europe, using its strategic geographical position and which will also have strategic regional importance, we will become a beggar waiting for someone to give it to him. Instead of exporting, we will import electricity instead of implementing energy projects that generate national and regional security, we will become an element of instability for the region as well, and based on the upcoming energy pool in Europe and Europe as a whole. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, we are not naive and we know that we have unresolved political differences with you and with regard to people's incomes and with regard to the role of the state in the economy and on many other key issues, but there are areas of national importance that should unite us. One of these areas is national security, and it includes energy security. We have tabled this proposal together with the Project for a solution because, in addition to our views and expectations on the issue of energy security and on our decision, we want to hear the views of colleagues and other parliamentary groups. We want to hear their questions and attitude towards energy security issues. We would like to hear your answers to these questions as well. Moreover, we want and hope not only that we want it, but everyone here in this House will also hear the attitude of our Prime Minister on the issue of Bulgaria's energy security as an element of our national security. Based on the fact that it is he who is leading and coordinating the overall activities of the government, we have tabled our Project Decision and I hope that you will support us in its adoption. Thus, on the one hand, we will defend the fact that we are a parliamentary republic, and on the other, we will also have the opportunity to hear the Prime Minister himself think about this vital issue relating to our national security in general and energy in particular. I will allow myself, as the text of our Decision has not been read, the text itself without reference, I will read what it says: Decides the National Assembly, of course, entrusts the Prime Minister of Bulgaria to the Prime Minister of Bulgaria within the time limit, the original text: Until 7 July 2017 to present to the National Assembly information on the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria to ensure the country's energy security in the context of the decisions of the European Commission to reduce greenhouse emissions from the thermal power plants in Europe, in particular in Bulgaria. And let it be the adoption of such a consensus decision by parliament the first in many years to bring together national important topics. There is no other area as dependent on unity as the national security of Bulgaria. And once again, I stress: and energy, as an element of this national security. I hope that we, the MPs, and you, Madam Minister, will be at the height of our people's expectations, because indeed the problems are enormous. The problem with coal plants is extremely important and it should find its solution not in delaying time, but in preserving them as much as possible, not as possible, but as much as their technological capabilities allow. Let us, by the way, if you don't mind, in this discussion and in the other elements of so-called energy security, so that we can make full use of today's time to hear our differences, to hear our opinions and to find solutions that will allow us in the future to be a country that continues to be secure in our energy supply, a country that emits security rather than instability. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. We also have a second Project for a solution. Please introduce him. Here you are, Mr. Nikolov from the parliamentary group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! We, our parliamentary group, have proposed an alternative form of this decision. Firstly, I would like to thank Minister Petkova because she has very committedly held several meetings at the Ministry of Energy and has shown not only commitment, but I would say she has entered the problem and started looking for a solution. All the parliamentary groups have united and, together with Mr. Ermenkov, we proposed that this hearing be to the Energy Committee yesterday, which also shows empathy. I would just like to mention that the deadline that you proposed in your decision, provided that the decision of the European Commission has not yet officially come out, puts us in the fact that it cannot be fulfilled because we are waiting for it to still be formalised in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is why we propose the following decision: the Minister of Energy together with the Minister of Environment and Water by 31 October 2017 to submit a report to the National Assembly on the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to the measures adopted in Brussels on 28 April 2017 by the Committee on Art. 75 of Directive 2010/75EU reference document for best available techniques for large combustion plants on industrial emissions. The decision was adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly 2017 and was stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly. It is the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Before I open the debates, I want to introduce you to how many minutes you have to talk to the various parliamentary groups: the parliamentary group of GERB Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Please come in for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! Today's debate is extremely important in order to ensure the country's electricity security. We have to have a consensus here. You are already familiar with what is happening, and the tensions in the complex of Maritsa Iztok. There we have to have a united position as the Bulgarian MEPs have done. I believe it is your duty. [[He addressed Minister Temenuzhka Petkova.]] You will also receive the support from the Bulgarian Parliament, at a high political level in Brussels, to protect precisely the Bulgarian electricity production. It's key to us... We're having a hard time dealing with it. And yesterday during the debate in the Commission it became clear that such a solution should be sought. For us, vision is a strong approach, a strong position in which you have full support, and together with the Minister of Environment and Water to protect our national interests. Madam Minister, as energy requires long-term policy, especially vision, you still have no energy strategy. Unfortunately, in the previous term, in the case of an energy strategy left by the government, I do not say that it is the best, and in view of what is happening at the moment, and with the geopolitical situation, it can also endure changes, but you have missed two years in which to gather all the political forces, to sit down and talk about this particular strategy. Now, of course, I have to be correct. You have already sent letters to the political parties to provide experts to discuss this strategy because it will not be ours or yours, it will be Bulgaria's strategy. Based on this strategy, we must also think about building new capacities. Colleagues, no matter how much we talk, we need new capacities. We have obsolete capacities. These capacities really need to have investments. In order for there to be investment, we have to have unity. Of course, we look forward to finally seeing your management program, because there is still no such program. I very much hope that there will already be the first steps in the construction of new capacities. It is no coincidence that I stress the construction of new capacities because, colleagues, we are in a rather delicate situation a country that does not produce nuclear equipment for the second time to sell nuclear equipment. We don't want it to come to that. We believe that there is a need to have a vision for the construction of new nuclear power plants, no matter how we extend the fifth and sixth block, this cannot be another 100 years. At the same time, we must also think about the next generation of Bulgarian citizens. It is good to hear your opinion on this so important issue, because it is a lot of money, it is the money of the Bulgarian taxpayers. I believe that we must jointly endeavour to find a solution to this problem. Once again, we from BSP for Bulgaria are for the construction of new nuclear facilities. Madam Minister, colleagues, Bulgaria must by no means miss along its border or, to put it mildly, to pass through a needed future gas project, such as the Turkish Stream. First, passing the pipe through our country means that we will retain our status as a country through which natural gas transits. As far as I know, Serbia and Hungary are already ready to build their territory as a continuation of this project. Secondly, we must also think about the Bulgarian economy. This will ensure the security of natural gas supplies and we will not depend on the geopolitical situation in a country, we will be able to receive natural gas directly and thus guarantee the supply to the Bulgarian economy. Of course, and the price itself will be much lower. Thirdly, if we combine our efforts for this project, Bulgaria will remain on the gas map as well. Then we can actually talk about building a gas hub. For now, this gas hub is a media project, but it can be implemented if the state unites its position. It is no coincidence, Madam Minister, that I say that the Government and not the Government, because I believe that there should be a clear objective, political consolidation around this objective and concrete action should be taken in order to achieve that objective. The worst will be if, in all our efforts to build deviations, the debate is again reduced to internal political struggle and we start to divide into -philes and -phobics, or we start taking sides in the dispute Russia - European Union. This must be avoided. Bulgaria, the state, must pursue its national interest, and they are precisely the building of a deviation will it be, the branch of which depends on the negotiations as well, but you will receive support from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and for your future activities, for the future negotiations. I'm not going back to bad practice, I'm going to talk about the future. You'll get that support. It is extremely important to negotiate. As a Member State of the European Union, we wish to guarantee ourselves the security of natural gas supplies. Madam Minister, there are many issues, but what concerns our electricity security and the actions you are taking, we will not seek political confrontation, we will seek a common solution to the problems, because it is a long-term policy that will remain for the next generations. We, as a truly constructive opposition in this area, will receive support from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u84	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u85	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, Madam Minister! Each of us has some preference for energy, I have my own, and it's quite understandable. In Bulgaria, the share of electricity produced on a coal-based basis is currently around 45%. Of these, 40% is on the heat plants in the area of the Maritsa-Eastern region, where local lignite coal is burned. For the 65-year history of the complex of mines were dug just over 1 billion tons of lignite. The remaining effective stocks in today's economics, I repeat today, are about 1.2 billion tonnes. In other words, the country's energy independence is ensured for a future period of over 70 years. The energy source is its own national resource and the price does not depend on stock speculative games or conjunctural external interests. The market product of the production is at a competitive price and in the future the latter will remain one of the lowest compared to that of the other electricity producers. To date, the three main power plants in the complex as a result of more than 4 billion. lv. investments have been brought into line with current emission regulations and other environmental requirements. The three plants do not retreat at all to similar plants in the European Union. The Maritsa-Eastern Complex is a strategic site that is important for the national security of the country and ensures the energy independence of Bulgaria. The jobs that provide the plants and mines are over 13,000. The services and maintenance of the activities accompanying the production and related to the complex are directly occupied by more than 80 000 locations throughout the country. The installed base power in the area of the Maritsa-East of a total of 3500 megawatts powered by electricity at a low price production with continuous mode in the metallurgy, chemical and oil industries. The opinion of the Bulgarian specialists, colleagues from EUROCOL and leading European experts is common, that the best available techniques in the reference document for large combustion plants limit gas emissions from coal and lignite plants are unattainable. Moreover, the correctness of the calculations of the proposed emission limits ranges is questioned as the latter are full of technical errors. It's part of Professor Scully's expert decision. Dr. Alphonse Cutter from Hamburg University of Technology. These limit values are absolutely pointless and the effect on ecology will be zero, and for Bulgaria it may also prove negative, as the reason for the suspension or limitation of electricity production in the complex "Maritsa-east" will lead to a sharp increase in the price of electricity. The poor Bulgarian population will not be able to provide its heating during the winter months. The mass destruction of the Bulgarian forests will begin. The fact is that there are violations and we have already repeatedly alerted them to the procedure during a meeting of the Committee under art. 75. According to the legal opinions, it is imperative that the vote be repeated. Our position should be clear before new emission reference values for mercury or nitrogen oxides are established, also sulphur dioxide issued by coal and lignite thermal plants. It is necessary that the relevant expert institutions and specialists review the available practices and perspectives in the coming decades to gradually reduce the observed values in a specific plan. In the event of the possible closure of coal and lignite-based power plants over the next 40 to 50 years, what will be our strategy for finding energy carriers that will replace those that are dropping out in such a way that there will be no problems in the management of electricity systems? Many people are not convinced, however, that alternative sources are a good solution at the moment. Nuclears for the moment, too. Yes, nuclear power was good before, but is it good now and will it be good as a source for the next 20 to 50 years?! We need to be reasonable enough to ensure that the ecological balance in one form or another will not be compromised or threatened. Madam Minister, we expect, in line with the proposal submitted by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs, to be informed within that period what action our government will take to protect one of the most secure, cheapest and most accessible to the population energy sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Nikolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Madam Minister! In fact, unfortunately, the amendment to this directive has been preparing for a long time. The problem is that we have found a little late desire to form some lobby in Europe so that we do not allow that. Thanks to EUROCOLE, it has been made generally available in our energy, so that all large combustion plants, including us, as demands of energy security in our country, can do what we can on this issue. As early as February, the Mining Chamber had organized such a discussion. They even said 90% sure she wouldn't be accepted. Turns out, out of over 200 such plants, only 50 were against it. These 50 are actually in Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Poland and so on, rather in the Eastern bloc. Why is that? When we look at the reference values, they are usually nitrogen oxide, sulphur dioxide and mercury. Usually coal, which is black and brown, especially in Europe, is poorer than sulphur, mercury is scarce. Nitrogen oxide, depending on the combustion temperature, forms more or less. It's not like that in the Marishka pool. We have lignite coal with lots of sulphur and mercury, respectively. There hasn't been a test done by a mercury reference laboratory, and we can't say what mercury is yet. We can't even say the technology to change it so that this mercury after burning doesn't fall into the dust, that is, like mercury oxide. The problem isn't the annual averages we're given. I think we can deal with a little investment there, with more technological change. The problem is the average values that will be monitored online. It is the daily averages that actually make it impossible for our large combustion plants to implement the sulphur dioxide processing, which currently reaches 96%, to be able to perform up to 98%, as set out in this Directive. The question is, what do we do from now on? Of course, this is 40% of our energy, of course it is about many jobs, as Mr Ermenkov said. Of course we're all empathetic, and we have to look for options for what happens. It is for this reason that the National Assembly, expressing not that the Ministry of Energy will not do the job and is not concerned, but still the National Assembly must show that it is empathetic and obliges the Minister of Energy to report on what is happening, what measures are being taken and how to protect our energy. Previously on TPP - Maritsa - East 2..................................................................................................... 300 million. lv. for serro-cleaning installations. They do their work, they are modern for their time and there are currently no comments from the bodies of the European Commission that monitor environmental cleanliness. That's why their complex license is in effect now. However, since 2021, since this will not be implemented, there are two options. One option is investment to implement these measures, the second option is a derogation, i.e. an exception. This derogation may, of course, be without a time limit. It can be timeless under both mercury and sulphur dioxide conditions. This derogation must be demonstrated to our authority, but it is, anyway, an authority that is monitored, verified and factually under the monitoring of the European Commission, that is, we must prove it to the European Commission, anyway, so that this derogation can be given. This is where we need to focus very much of our efforts, however, the problem arises that the methodology on which this monitoring of these reference values can be done has not yet been made in Bulgaria. We still don't know how, which means there's no methodology, especially mercury. How to keep track of him? How to detect it and how it can possibly be neutralized so that it does not fall into the particulates that are emitted. This, I think, is one of the big problems so that these problems can be economically valued, that is to say value the funds that may be put into place, so that we can implement the directive or, eventually, when we defend in what way the damage, the economic ones that will be done, are much greater than the environmental improvements that will be obtained on the basis of the implementation of this directive. It is here that our large combustion plants need to be speeded up, but they also need to be coordinated so that each one of them cannot search for such an authority, such a company that is licensed accordingly, so that it can draw up such a system, and they can be coordinated so that payments can be made by all of them, so that not everyone can go their own way, to be coordinated. It is here that the Ministry of Energy is able to coordinate them, including trade unions, including large combustion plants, so that they go the same way, to make a methodology, the same scheme and to help them to be able to read these things economically, so that the Ministry of Environment and Water, as a coordinating body, can then be introduced on their behalf into the European Commission. That is why we welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Energy, but not only. We support them, we say that we stand entirely behind them and will not, of course, politicize these issues in the part of what our energy pays. I agree that in parallel to this the debate must go on these capacities for how long they will last. They must be replaced by other capacities, with other base energy. What's it gonna be? This to be part of, of course, the Energy Strategy. This should go parallel, but it should not be this question put on the basis of the other, that is, we should not look for an option on this problem, which concerns our coal plants, to expand the other which should develop as base energy. That's why it has to be parallel. I thank all my fellow Members for not politicising this issue, for seeking efforts from all parliamentary groups on this issue. Thank God, in the Energy Policy Committee is left behind, an expert solution is always being sought, so I think this debate has shown once again the dialogue we have entered in 2015 and we have solved major energy problems, such as the deficit in the National Electricity Company, as the first steps to make full market liberalisation, making companies profitable in most of them. Even the TPP Maritsa East 2s in the first quarter, as far as I know, is already on profit, thank God, and the market that allows it. So it is the effort of all others, it is not the effort of a party, so I would like to express my gratitude and hope to be crowned with success.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Genov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u89	Dear Mrs. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mrs. Minister! I will also join the group, which will support without any policy the government's struggle to save the blocks in the Marishka Basin. That's what we all have to do. Mr. Hristov here, however, is reading us a lecture, as if there is someone who is opposed to keeping the plants in the Marishka pool at work. It's just that I'm sure there aren't any such people in this room, and I'd say there isn't one in Bulgaria either. This is for now our main problem and the main priority of the government, and we must support it. However, from the talks we had yesterday and in the Energy Commission, it became clear that there is one option, unfortunately the.................................................................................... And if we put our hand on the heart, we have to say that there are a lot of underwater stones that we have to overcome together, we have to look for a solution together. I hope we find it, because otherwise it will be a very heavy blow to the Bulgarian energy sector, and not only that. This will be a social bomb for Bulgaria, but I think there are no differences between the political forces on this issue. We work together. We'll fight. We may be too late, as Mr. Nikolov said, that we failed to create a once-in-a-lifetime lobby that better protects us in Europe. Anyway, the fight goes on anyway, and we have to lead it with the intention of winning it. However, colleagues, this is not the only problem in Bulgarian energy. We shouldn't bet on the one option we talked about yesterday. If he succeeds well, if he succeeds in part, what do we do? Let's go back to the other important issue that I want to talk about for a stable Bulgarian energy. This is parallel with the option of going with the option of going, which yesterday is not spoken of, but then the topic was different, namely what we do with the equipment we bought. In the last few days, I have been following your speeches very closely. Frankly, I'm pleased with what you're saying, and I'm telling myself it's honest with myself about the options for looking for an investor. And what if we don't find an investor? So far, so good, however, we have to do, at least you have to take another step forward in opening the curtain. We're looking for an investor, but how long? Still, there must be some time horizons. If we look for him for ten years and we don't find him, we don't have the energy. This is a very important matter. I am not opposed to finding an investor, but if we are talking about an investor, it is also extremely important to me what strategy we will make, energy. A strategy to stand behind, I have already once said it somewhere, a strategy for which all political parties, who have the potential to enter the future 15-20 years in the country's governance to be predictable, so that investors know that no matter who manages Bulgaria, their investments will not be lost anywhere along the route. For this, the strategy is extremely important. And the other question. If, however, in the foreseeable future, I hope that you will say what is the time horizon for looking for an investor, if we go to option VII block, why only VII, what do we do with equipment for the VIII block? This issue must also be resolved. I have also spoken with colleagues from GERB, in any case we can find a common language. The question is to decide how these blocks are constructed. In general, in world practice, the cheapest way to build two reactors on one site has been shifting over time from one year to the first, then the second. That's the cheapest option. But if we can't afford it, we can also accept the option of building one, once it starts working, to start the other. Then we can really secure investment for the construction of these blocks, but this must be done. We have no alternative to nuclear energy. Mr. Hristov talked about how good she was so far, but will she be in the future? Just two figures, Mr. Hristov, to understand that nuclear energy has no alternative. That's it! The rate of use of installed power for the last year of NPP is 90%, i.e. nearly eight thousand hours during the year the nuclear power plant works at 100%. [[Noise and lines.]] These are important things, but then we can talk about them. Nuclear energy has no alternative. The latter, in order not to take away from the time of my colleagues, which is very important, and I suggest that we resolve it as quickly as possible, is the new enterprise in the construction of the new capacities to return under the hat of the NPP. That's where it belongs, that's where it was. It was transferred to NEC when it was wrong. He's not from GERB, so don't worry. It was transferred to NEC incorrectly, there is no room in NEK for the construction of new nuclear facilities. The capacity, competence is within "Kozloduy" and there must be returned the enterprise for the construction of the new capacities, whether it will be in "Belene" or in "Kozloduy." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Atalay, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! We are discussing a very serious issue and I wonder how all the political forces, everyone who comes out on this stage today, are so quiet, quiet, as if they were living together. I guess it's not joy, it's anxiety. I'm worried, guys! If you read the decisions offered by both political forces, you will see that at last one political force wants the Prime Minister to engage very seriously with the problems of energy, the other political power wants the Ministry of Energy to finally stand in its place, whether there is in their structure by the united nationalists, and those who have long managed some of the energy where the problems are deepening. But unification for the development of energy and for the supply of energy raw materials is a policy, Mr. Nikolov, and there is no way not to make this policy. The issue is that the policy that all politicians conduct is one-way, focused on the development of our energy, and the document that will give us this development is the energy strategy that you do not have. You don't have it! It's not from 2008. You have tried to change it several times and have brought it to one such document that you do not comply with at all, and I will now tell you why you do not comply. Because in the old Energy Strategy it was said that if there were tables in which we had left you, that by 2004 the TPP would have to be closed, then the TPP would have to be closed. At the same time, the falling asleep, the sleepwalking, the inactivity of all the rulers since 2009 in the European structures not to take those actions, Madam Minister, with which you had to stand before us today and say them. And missing the opportunity to ask for the derogation, missing the possibility of not being able to prepare those documents that you, Mr. Nikolov, said that each combustion plant should run independently and ask for the derogation. Today, when our bird has already flown off our shoulder, we are looking for, colleagues, opportunities for how and how to get out of this situation. The situation, Madam Minister, is very difficult and remains to you because I see that BSP's decision on the Prime Minister's burden will not pass and you will be charged with this task. The derogation must be wanted because if the political forces were united and you had respected that Strategy, in this process of closing certain capacities that are spewing sulphur oxides, nitrogen dioxides... To open the clamp, Mr. Dobrev, that you took the opportunity and those bioinstallations that would also reduce nitrogen oxides, and for them we will receive enough punishment in the nearest time. Mrs. Vasileva can tell you because I don't see where the Minister of Agriculture is. You were most actively attacking those new capacities as a Tsankov stone that were built for Bulgaria. You have made it impossible to implement those projects for new capacities such as Belene. We have done in Bulgaria those actions with which we have made to be built "Sin Stream." That's when we talked. Even some Democrats went out not to talk about Mr. Kostov, who said that fish would be destroyed in the Black Sea and would not be able to build a pipe, and today Turkey is receiving from In the same way, for the Turkish Stream, when the government, where the DPS was involved, was doing everything possible to build a South Stream, to do that thing that we need to get European bureaucrats and institutions to accept our proposals, Bulgaria to have the opportunity to transit gas, you, your government, stopped and did everything possible not to have a South Stream. And now, if only 2% increase emissions requirements, the funds to be put into the new treatment plants are so large that only the derogation can save us. All the other things spoken from this tribune are empty words. And that is why, Madam Minister, you must commit, you must take the responsibility to make that organization that is necessary, together with our MEPs, together with those eight countries that are in the same situation, and this is the Visegrad Four, colleagues. Given that you need to talk very seriously with Greece, you know that only they brought us to this situation, but they protected their own interest. Dear friends, in politics there are no eternal friends, there are eternal interests. If our politicians worked one way to protect the interests of Bulgaria, today energy would not be in this state. In closing, colleagues, we will support both declarations, but so, as well as GERB, Mr. Dobrev, have found that in their decision the words in cooperation with the Minister of Environment will be dropped because they are the controlling authority, and to remain only the Minister of Energy. Dear colleagues, energy is politics, energy is security, energy is for those who understand it. Thank you. Good luck to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u92	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. I take it there's a proposal to change the text of the decision, Mr. Dobrev? Okay, you can say it later. A line to Mr. Atalay? I can't see. Next statement Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u93	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Minister! First, the strategy. As it became clear that we had to work out a strategy we talked to colleagues, I would initiate legal changes in the Energy Act and the Energy Efficiency Act to eliminate both strategies: Energy Strategy and Energy Efficiency Strategy, and create a common strategy for sustainable energy development. My colleagues from the Energy Commission have supported me, so we will do so as soon as possible. As for the decisions, I stress once again: today we have had a conversation that has shown that things are going outside... Not only in coal plants, there are many other problems. I propose that the two decisions proposed by us and by colleagues from GERB be united in one with first and second points of importance: the Prime Minister, the second point of being the Minister of Energy, with the corresponding adjustments of the dates in both. In our decision, the point is placed after the country's energy security. I've got it written down, I'll give it to you. I believe that if this approach is adopted, we will have the opportunity to hear what the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria is thinking about the energy security of the country, which includes not only coal plants, as I have already said, but also gas, oil and nuclear energy. At all, where we stand in the future and how we see ourselves as a country in the field of energy. We will have the opportunity to find out specifically about coal plants, as the most important and painful problem, what the Minister of Energy said and what actions have been taken. Thank you. Exactly a minute and forty seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u94	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov, for your correctness. Any lines to Mr. Ermenkov? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I give the floor to the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u95	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me, first of all, thank you for today's discussion and debate for the debate that has taken place. Thank you, because this is a very important topic that you have all put to discussion today. The topic related to the country's energy security is an integral and extremely important part of national security, as it became clear from the speech of Mr. Ermenkov, Mr. Stoynev, Mr. Nikolov, who really cares about each and every one of us. Thank you for showing and showing Bulgarian citizens that when it comes to important, important topics for the whole of society, we are all able to ignore the small political differences, join our efforts and move forward. I believe that this is indeed a very good signal and has shown the state attitude of all of you to this extremely important subject. As it has become clear in your speeches, energy is not a sector that can develop today for tomorrow. The decisions taken in the sector must therefore be very well analysed, must be evaluated from all directions, from all points of view, and must be taken by consensus. We all need to join forces and, when we stand behind a decision in the Bulgarian energy sector, this decision must be clear that it was taken by consensus after thorough analysis, after a very serious analysis in terms of economic justification of all projects and decisions in the field of energy and in terms of protecting our national interests. When we talk about the country's energy security, it is undoubtedly an essential element of this energy security that is the financial stability of the sector. Without financial stability in the sector, without sustainability in its development, we could hardly achieve the relevant energy security, because every project, every modernisation, every step in energy is linked to a very serious financial resource. That is why, even within the previous management mandate, we have started with your support, and with your help we have managed to deal with basically one of the most serious problems in the energy sector, the financial deficit in the system, the financial problems, the huge inter-company debt. Many important changes were adopted in the Energy Act, in the Renewable Energy Act, which gave us a breath of air and an opportunity to overcome and solve the very important problems accumulated for years in the sector. We have also created the Energy System Security Fund a step which the World Bank also appreciates as one of the most successful steps in the reform of the Bulgarian energy sector, as it guarantees precisely the financial stability of the sector, covering the deficit in the National Electricity Company and the role of the Energy System Security Fund.In the future model for full liberalisation of the energy market, as we all know, will be very important and very decisive. This will be the body that will play the role of a party in the so-called "non-discrimination contracts." That is, this will be the fund that must generate a resource that will allow Bulgarian energy to be financially stable. During the previous term, again with joint efforts, a special Law on the National Electricity Company was adopted in relation to the arbitration decision for Belene. Solving this issue, paying our partners from the Atomstroyexport (Atomstroyexport) the obligation under the arbitration decision, we also solved one of the very important problems in energy. You know that if this issue had not been resolved then and with your help, with your consent, there would probably have been very adverse consequences for Bulgarian energy and from a financial point of view and in terms of our energy security. What we are facing today, and what is the basis of the debate, is a solution, a European Commission reference document that sets much higher requirements for large combustion plants, requirements that are a serious test ahead of us. The large combustion plants, as already mentioned here, provide more than 40% of the electricity produced by Bulgarian energy. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be honest and say that Bulgarian energy, Bulgarian energy security cannot cope without these base capacities. That is why, yesterday, within the Energy Commission, a very serious discussion has been made and today, in the debate, it has become clear that we all need to join forces and work to get a derogation from these higher requirements. In order for this derogation to take place, several basic conditions must be met. It's a process that needs to be bilateral. On the one hand, all of us, the state, the MPs, our MEPs, and on the other hand must stand the large combustion plants with their expertise and with the opportunity to do analyses on the basis of which our Environmental Executive Agency can make a sufficiently motivated and clear decision to grant a derogation. In order for this to happen, large combustion plants must complete their part of this important task to produce an analysis based on which to become clear in an indisputable way that the costs that will be incurred to implement these new, higher requirements in terms of ecology will, in times, exceed the environmental effect. This must be in line with the geographical position of the installation concerned and must also be in line with its technological specificities. Here I see the important role of our large combustion plants. I use the case from this high tribune to state that the Ministry of Energy, the government is firmly behind this approach and will provide assistance and assistance in any way to large combustion plants so that we can protect them in an undisputed way to obtain a derogation. Without this derogation, the Bulgarian energy system cannot cope with the tests that are to come. It wasn't far off the time before just a few months ago when the Bulgarian energy system was facing a very serious test. And then, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the energy system managed precisely by the active participation of TPP Maritsa East 2 This gave us the opportunity to really deal with this difficult situation in a dignified way. This is in terms of large combustion plants. We have to work on a derogation. We'll rely on all of you for support, for cooperation. I'm glad we heard and saw that we're getting one. I am glad that we are united around the fact that the Bulgarian MEPs from all political parties stand behind us. I think this is the first and very important step, and the first and very important guarantee that this joint work of ours will be crowned with success simply because we will all unite our efforts. During the debate we also talked about the government's position, the vision regarding the construction of new capacities. Of course, this is one of the very important topics, another very important challenge that lies ahead of us. We need to be realistic and know two basic things in this direction. First of all, that Bulgaria currently owns a licensed site of Belene, for which expenditure of 1 billion has been incurred over the years. And 400 million. lv. At the end of last year we also paid the equipment with a long production cycle, it cost 1 billion. 176 million. lv. The NPP project was notified by the European Commission as early as 2007, that is to say, we have all the prerequisites to look for the best solution in terms of the rational use of this equipment. On the other hand, we also have the long-term vision of the European Union in terms of coal plants and in terms of their place and role in the future development of energy. The fact that we will fight for a derogation from our large combustion plants for a maximum period of time or unlimited derogation is undeniable, but we must think in the long term. Energy is a sector that must have a horizon ahead of it, and it must be years ahead, as it engages not only one, two or three governments, it engages generations ahead of our children, grandchildren and grandchildren, so we must approach as rationally as possible. The construction of new power in Bulgarian energy should be taken by consensus after a very detailed analysis, an economically justified analysis that rests on a very good basis, a very good basis. We do not have the right to make a mistake and we do not have the right to afford political nuances in making such decisions. We need to know that building one such power will be economically justified that it will be on a market basis. With regard to the new nuclear power, the government's position, and we have had the opportunity to share it with you at other times is that an attempt must undoubtedly be made to seek the possibility of separating assets and liabilities in relation to Belene. A process we're working on. A purely accounting analysis is currently being carried out in NEK to see what the assets are and what the liabilities for this project are, to be able to be separated into a separate project company. This project company must be subjected to a privatisation procedure in order to see the real interest in this project. There is such an investor interest, but agree that the best way to make sure that it is real is to carry out a procedure and within this public, transparent procedure to state interest and the one that offers the best conditions for us to be chosen accordingly. If the project is viable, it will be implemented. With regard to the second option, which Mr Genov mentioned, if such a procedure does not end successfully, as we would all like, then we will be looking for an opportunity to use this equipment and, accordingly, for the possibility of building the seventh block of the nuclear power plant. We believe that in the implementation of such a project there are the necessary prerequisites, because the equipment of the NPP is also Russian, of the same manufacturer. The necessary infrastructure is built, Kozloduy NPP has very good expertise, so when we talk about new power and this is one of the options and one of the options that we think about. Very often in today's debate, the word "energy strategy" was mentioned, and it is the key to all of what we are having this so important debate about today. The energy strategy is the document that will give a clear vision of how the Bulgarian energy will develop, how sustainable it will be. On how Bulgarian energy will be developed depends on the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy, depending on the Bulgarian consumers to acquire, to have energy resources at the best prices. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I believe that when we talk about an energy strategy, we must once again be extremely united and this document must be developed by consensus from all of us. Within this working group, this process of preparing the energy strategy we will certainly have discussions, disputes, these will fight, we will fight visions, but ultimately it is important to get to the best for the Bulgarian state, the best for the Bulgarian economy and for the Bulgarian energy. I had the opportunity to send an official letter to all parliamentary parties requesting that representatives be broadcast to take part in the working group, which was created in the Ministry of Energy. Thank you all for having responded to this invitation, and there are already representatives on the air. Within the working group will take part the team of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which works under the contract, which the Bulgarian Energy Holding concluded with BAS in relation to precisely the development of the energy strategy and the development of the analysis of the opportunities for use of the equipment for NPP Belene. I take this opportunity to thank you for having responded to this invitation and I am sure that with united efforts we will be able to develop an energy strategy that will give us a clear horizon for how Bulgarian energy will develop. There will be many answers, not to mention all the questions that have been raised and debated here today. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I would like to conclude once again to thank you for your constructive dialogue, to thank you for your support for the Bulgarian energy and to say that this behaviour on your part today is worthy of admiration. I believe that Bulgarian citizens should increasingly witness such consensus, because this is really about Bulgaria, and we are all sent here, or we are in certain positions because of this "to work for Bulgarian citizens." Thank you for your attention and thank you for your support. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u96	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we're going to vote. First, the editorial amendment, which Mr. Dobrev proposes,.......................... the Minister of Environment and Water........................................................................ Proposal for an editorial amendment: to engage in partnership with the Minister of Environment and Water. Please, voting mode. They voted 144 MPs: for 144, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I am voting on Mr. Tasco Ermenkov's proposal to put the two decisions together. Please, voting mode. They voted 141 MPs: 55 against 9, abstention 77. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the two separate proposals for a decision. Firstly, I vote on Mrs Cornelia Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs. They voted 142 MPs: 54, against 59, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on Delyan Dobrev's motion for a decision and a group of MPs with the editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u97	Please suspend the vote and declare the result. 139 MPs voted: 96, none, abstention 43. The draft decision has been adopted. We move on to the next debate on the questions of the MPs Mihail Hristov, Anton Kutev and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on the policies for solving the problems of people with disabilities and the concrete actions related to them. [[Loud noise.]] There's a vote, please take your seats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u98	Honourable Members, as I will have a tolerance procedure, please do not leave, because it will turn out that we will not have a quorum. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please allow representatives of several organisations of people with disabilities to enter the Chamber. From now on I say that I have a clear idea that this may not be quite accepted because we normally allow representatives of institutions, but since this is about people with wheelchairs who do not have access to the balcony and cannot reach the hall, I do not need to explain my motives further. Please vote on the access to the hall of seven people - Katya Yordanova, Vera Dimitrova Ivanova, Tsvetelina Pencheva Hristova, Nelly Plamenova Antova, Maria Nikolaeva Dimitrova, Natalia Ivanova and Julia Kirilova Starcheva, respectively, can be admitted to the hall with their children. Colleagues, I'm asking for clearance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u99	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. I believe your offer is reasonable. Please vote. The vote is 131 MPs: 130, against none, abstention 1. Please, the Quaestors, assist the persons to take their seats in the Chamber. Reference to the debates on the questions of the MPs Mihail Hristov, Anton Kutev and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on the policies for solving the problems of people with disabilities and the specific actions related to them. At the inquiry by the MP Mihail Hristov, Anton Kutev and Georgi Gokov was answered in the meeting on 23 June 2017, Friday. At the same meeting, 61 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning, together with the Project for a solution. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next Parliamentary Control meeting. The proposal for debate on the inquiry and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 23 June 2017, Friday. A second draft for a decision of 11 MPs from the political party GERB parliamentary group and from the parliamentary group "United patriots" was introduced on 29 June 2017, Thursday, and was sent on the same day to the MPs in electronic form. Drafts submitted for a decision to be voted on: The first draft decision submitted by 61 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP), No 754-62, dated 23 June 2017, was registered in 10.42 minutes. The second draft for a decision was submitted by 11 MPs from the political party GERB parliamentary group and from the parliamentary group "United Patriarchs." No 754-02-62 of 29 June 2017, registered at 11.55 pm. Before I give the floor for an opinion from the importers, I will introduce you to the minutes that each parliamentary group has for no other reason but to allow the persons to accommodate themselves and then hear the opinions of the importers. In fact, if we take too long, I'll ask Mr. Gokov to wait for them to settle in and then let's start with the report. Time distribution in connection with the application of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB, which has a number of 95 MPs, have time under art. 105, para. 2 within 19 minutes; "BSP for Bulgaria". with a capacity of 80 Members of the National Assembly, have 16 minutes; "United patriots"............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor on behalf of the importers of the first project.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, before I begin my exhibition, just to mention which organizations are our guests, who are currently settling in to have time to settle in. These are representatives of the Confederation "Protection of children's rights", NGOs "Equal start", 2008, Association "Look at me", Foundation "Movement of Bulgarian mothers" and Center for independent life.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u101	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. I think they've already settled in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the House, Dear Mr. Minister, Dear Guests! The problems of people with disabilities are created not by their condition, but by the environment that is not hospitable enough for their differences, but also by the physical and social barriers in society, including stereotypes and prejudices. Therefore, attention and policies should be focused not on damage itself, but on man's ability to do what he knows and can do. Outside of purely moral arguments to conduct such a policy, there is an economic one. It is economically justified and profitable to invest in the potential by compensating the limitations imposed by the damage rather than financing the restrictions without using the opportunities. It's the other way around. The approaches in social policy, in policies towards people with disabilities over the last 27 years are based on limitations due to disability and deficits, not on human abilities and the stereotype imposed that they cannot participate fully in public life. Then the logical question is: are policies in the right direction to address the problems of people with disabilities and the specific actions related to them? The problems in relations and policies towards people with disabilities have been accumulated without effective attempts at their overall resolution for at least the last 20 years. Therefore, do not look at today's debate as a political theater or as a nagging but a constructive attitude in the formation of a policy that will be conducted in the social sphere and, in particular, towards people with disabilities. Our goal is to change the attitude of the government and our society towards people with disabilities, because we should not view them as objects of social protection or treatment, but as subjects with rights. We must recognise their dignity as people who are active members of society who are able to assert their rights to fight for them and make decisions about their lives based on free and conscious choices. I start with the National Strategy for Disabled People, which is a major political document, and according to its objectives it sets priorities and measures for improving the quality of life of disabled people for non-discrimination on the grounds of harm and so on. It is said that the objectives and priorities are formed in accordance with the European strategy of people with disabilities and correspond to our National Health Strategy. It is said that the Strategy has been developed in connection with the implementation of our national commitments on the implementation of the ratified Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations. We also have an Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria to implement this Convention. Strategies and plans we have a ball, goals and priorities we have a ball, only results we don't have! As they say, from day to day better, and from year to year worse. People with disabilities despite this adopted Strategy last year, despite periodic action plans for realization leave us with the feeling that nothing has changed for them since the time before the adoption of the Strategy and organize protests. Why? Because there is a strategy, but there are no adequate actions. Therefore, with the draft decision, the National Assembly entrusts the Minister of Labour and Social Policy by 15 July 2017 to present to the National Assembly an analysis of the implementation and control of the National Strategy and the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. And, secondly, information on the financial resources to implement this Action Plan for 2017 and the next by 2020. Let the analysis be objective and concrete and provide us with an accurate picture of whether the measures are effective, whether the situation of people with disabilities improves, whether there is money spent inefficiently. I am moving forward with not so strategic but extremely important problems for people with disabilities. After a series of protests last year GERB introduced a new model for helping families with children with disabilities. It was then claimed that instead of the various types of aid, they would already be given one that contains all the old ones and will be higher in a financial dimension. But there's been a scandalous situation. For most of them, the money was cut, and others were left without their personal assistants. For the most severe cases, 5876 children with TELK over 90% new help is really around 550 BGN. More than that, but the children are left without personal assistants. The largest group of 12 378 children with TELK of 50-70% find themselves with a cut financial assistance and it has 20 leva. Less than before. And I ask a question: Did you save your country a few million leva at the expense of these children and parents? Assistants need not only children with disabilities, but adults with disabilities, sick and lonely old people who can't take care of themselves. Let's not open the subject of Alzheimer's. Hundreds of them are left without such help for bureaucratic and other reasons. At the protests of the mothers and other protests of the disabled people, there was a request for a law on personal assistance that would be oriented towards each person according to their individual needs. In this regard, the Minister is required information about the implementation and development in the future of the social services and social assistant provided in the community, about the programs and measures for employment and training of people with disabilities and about the development of their own business, as well as systematized information on payments and benefits to which people with disabilities are entitled, including in the context of their transition to age and in the context of their holding during the management of GERB. I should further point out the important role in carrying out the policies for disabled people of the system of expertise of the work-related system. Does it work effectively? Is there any other opinion on the matter besides that the system of TelK requires a very deep reform, but not self-target. In addition to abuses that are hardly as overexposed by the government, there are many difficulties of under-financing, lack of sufficient experts, lack of overall vision of what we aim to obtain and achieve with this expertise. We need to change the overall concept. First of all, to differentiate the attitude towards people of working age and inability to work, because the first is an assessment of the possibilities for setting up the labour market, and the second is an assessment of support, i.e. social policy. Therefore, in the Draft Decision, Mr Minister, we ask you and your vision of the system of labour and medical expertise, and in particular of labour expertise, and also an analysis of the effectiveness and adequacy of social assessments for people with disabilities under Chapter 3 of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. We come to another important issue and an important point. What is it, Minister, your vision of changing the guaranteed minimum income? It is a key factor because it depends on people's access to social aid, as well as the amount of aid themselves, including for people with disabilities. After the government of the Triple Coalition updated it in 2009, its size was frozen at 65 BGN. Guess who's been in charge since then? Another problem, and not small, is that there are statistics on how many people with disabilities are in Bulgaria, but there is still no accurate information, although the Bulgarian legislation provides for the establishment and maintenance of an information base for people with disabilities with a precise order to conduct and maintain this base, and the data should be used to monitor the number for analysis of the socio-economic status of people with disabilities, for planning activities related to meeting the needs of education, medical and social rehabilitation. I am tempted to ask the question: How do we even conduct a state policy and plan activities to support people with disabilities when we do not even know their exact number? In this regard, Minister, with this Draft Decision, we oblige you to take the necessary steps to implement the Information Database for people with permanent disabilities with content, up-to-dateness and organisation ensuring that it is possible to achieve in full the legally defined objectives of its creation. Finally, something important for people with disabilities is updating and updating the limits of aid for the development, purchase or repair of medical devices and aids. Did you know that the last order setting the limit limits is from 10 January 2008 and under it are the signatures of Minister Maslarova and the ministers Oresharski and Dimitrov? Without further ado, I would mention that since 2008, technological medical devices, aids, gadgets and facilities have developed seriously technologically. After all, it's been nine and a half years, not to mention the actuality of limit dimensions. Absolutely by 31 December 2017, in order to comply with the limits and the new budget for 2018 in accordance with your powers, Mr Minister, you must issue an order to update and update the updated limits of aid for medical devices and assistance. To conclude, I would like to say that everything we want with this Project for a solution is feasible and a condition is necessary to address the problems of people with disabilities and the specific actions related to them in the right direction. These are really necessary steps to launch a new policy for people with disabilities so that there are no more invisible to society and the state citizens. I'd like to complete my presentation and presentation with one thought of the former Attorney General of the United States of America, Ramsey Clark. He says: "The right is not what anyone can give you, the right is what no one can take away from you. I have the feeling that our country and we as MPs have taken away these people's rights and it is time to direct our policy to their advantage and give them their rights back to the full extent. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. From the importers of the second Project. "The People's Representative Svetlana Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Guests! I will present a draft decision signed by MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB and the parliamentary group of................................................................................................ One of the most important topics in the sector is the one related to people with disabilities, their integration, improved quality of life and social inclusion. Three important proposals related to the presentation of information in the National Assembly by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on policies for solving the problems of people with disabilities are put in place in the draft decision that we propose. Our first proposal is related to the presentation of information by the Minister about the measures taken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to ensure sustainability of social services and personal assistant, social assistant, domestic assistant, after the completion of the financing of the Operational Programme. We believe that this information is important to be presented in the National Assembly, as these services have an extremely strong social impact in society, on the one hand, for people with disabilities and their families themselves, and, on the other hand, with regard to municipalities that provide these services at local level. The contribution of the provided social services is of particular importance for improving the quality of life of disabled people, including children who need constant care in their daily lives. The provision of social services in the community, including in the home environment, is part of the scope of the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" 2014-2020 in the field of social inclusion and people with disabilities and lonely elderly people in their inability to serve themselves are among the priority target groups of the Programme. The operation "Independent life" which started in 2015, enabled all municipalities and districts of municipalities in Bulgaria to apply and implement projects as specific beneficiaries: for building and part-time provision of services for social inclusion of people with disabilities and lonely living elderly people. Its implementation takes place in 260 municipalities and 33 regions in Sofia municipality, Varna municipality and Plovdiv municipality for nearly 24 800 persons with disabilities, including children and persons over 65 years of age and inability to self-service. They are served by 16,500 appointed personal assistants, social assistants and household assistants. Its project financing ended in 178 municipalities and regions of municipalities in 2017, and in the remaining 115 municipalities and regions of municipalities in 2018. In the light of the above, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is making efforts to continue social services through national funding, and the necessary estimates and proposed specific options for its future implementation will be made for this purpose. Our second proposal concerns the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to provide information on the actions taken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy regarding the social assessment of disabled people with regard to their individual needs by 30 September 2017. It is important to provide information on the actions taken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to respect the social assessment of disabled people with regard to individual needs, as this topic is within the scope of public expectations for changing the evaluation model. Following monitoring and analysis, it has been found that the current model is not effective enough to assess the individual needs of disabled persons and its improvement is necessary. The existing social assessment needs to be replaced by a new type of social assessment to achieve a differentiated approach to ensuring independent life for people with permanent disabilities. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will take concrete action to comply with the social assessment of people with disabilities with regard to individual needs and needs of persons with training, employment, professional realization and social inclusion. And our third proposal is related to presenting a concept for reforming the system for the expertise of workability by 31 October 2017. There needs to be a large-scale change in the model of the expertise of workability due to the mature need to reform the system, an important topic that is in the focus of society over the last few months and is part of the government's commitments. This problem is already being handled by the Health and Social Ministry. Our ambition is to have a concept by the end of the year that will serve to make the necessary legal changes. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. After the two opinions of the importers of the draft decisions, you have the floor to speak. Here you are, fellow Members. You have the floor, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u106	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister Petkov, Dear Members of the National Assembly! We live in the country with the highest number of prisons and these prisons don't have bars, but these prisons are everywhere. If you haven't noticed, or if you've actually already noticed, the mothers of disabled children are here to show us once again that this big prison exists. I hope that none of you will end up where 800,000 people are imprisoned in Bulgaria. In this prison, fellow Members, there are no years in prison, but there is a verdict. And yes, certainly, if anything in the Social Ministry doesn't change, it will be life without parole. Imagine that these people with disabilities feel exactly that way. The colleagues from GERB have suggested something interesting. I thank them for their initiative to call September the Minister to inform us of his work, but I would ask you not to cheat from us because we are not students. And now I can't really understand is this fear of the opposition, or is it concern for people with disabilities, or are you trying to do PR on their backs? That's 800,000 people with disabilities and only 2,000 personal assistants. Some of these people, including me, need wheelchairs, upper and lower limb prosthetics, hearing aids, ortesis and so on. The regulation by which these aids are granted has not been updated since 2008. There is something there that at least in my eyes I have the right to say it is funny and it is the wooden prosthesis. Wooden prosthesis, colleagues, doesn't exist and the Ministry actually gives money for nonexistent things. This is tragic and will continue to be so until these people feel like they're in prison in their own country. Dear Minister Petkov, I would like to congratulate you and congratulate you on taking one of the heavy ministries. I congratulate you for accepting this post, but I cannot be indifferent to what is happening and I promise you that I will be your biggest corrective because 800 thousand people are your biggest corrective. Accept this post not as a matter of importance, but as a personal mission. I am convinced that you would manage as long as you have a desire and as long as you do not accept BSP as opposition. The key to this prison is now in you and you decide what to do with it. To conclude, I would like to repeat something that I must repeat for the fourth or fifth time in this room. The people with disabilities are not figures and for them real solutions to their real problems must be made. Thank you. [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Are there any lines? I can't see. You have the floor for further speeches. Here you go, Dr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u108	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The group "United Patriarchs" supported the general opinion of the draft decision of the three points, which read just a while ago colleague Svetlana Angelova. I pay particular attention to a third point, which I have always advocated as a thesis and in the Social Committee the work of the Telks in Bulgaria. Again we return to the serious figures, which Mr. Tsvetanov also said a week or two ago "The 9 millionth Bulgaria at the end of socialism has 150 thousand people with wheelchair groups, the 7 millionth Bulgaria today has over 800,000 people. Four or five times has grown people with disability pensions. That reflects on a few things. First of all, one big expense. Secondly, people who are really sick, and those children that we see here, looking at them as a doctor, basically with child cerebral palsy, we know that this is a diagnosis for life, instead of providing them with a more real income, which they have an acute need, we give about 1 billion. lv. of false invalids in Bulgaria of the year. Our new minister knows that very well. We therefore give this deadline 30 September to find new ways to review these decisions, which is not easy because we need to review several hundred thousand decisions from the Telks in Bulgaria. This is part of the answer of the United Patriarchs.... how will the pension become from 200 to 300 BGN. There's a billion to be rerouted here. lv. in the two rational units of the real disabled and the people with the minimum pensions who still continue to take pensions below the poverty threshold, which is currently around 300 BGN in Bulgaria. We therefore wish the Ministry success in these three points, which we in the ruling majority have formulated. We hope that on September 30th we will receive a response from a new team of the Ministry, indefinitely motivated to change things in the positive direction. If we do not do these things, the old Bulgarian saying will remain in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u109	Thank you, Dr. Popovski. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u110	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dr. Popovski, I was at a reception in Devin and citizens with disabilities came and said, now is the time: talk to the representatives of the ruling coalition to stop opposing two groups, the one, the poor one, who expects an increase in pensions, and the other, the people with disabilities. In this group of disabled people who receive disability pensions, we can not all put them under a common denominator. And this debate is unpleasant. He's hurting these people. Let the doctors, let the state see state institutionality how it works, but not hurt and oppose these people. I strongly object to such a debate from this tribune. You insult a huge group of people, saying, even with your management decision: we will take money from some people with disabilities, even you said, "I'm sorry," and we will give it to the other group of poorer people. That's cynical, mate. And that's cynical as a management decision. [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. For the second line, here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u112	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, dear Minister, dear guests! As Mr. Popovski said, you are precisely giving a billion leva to the liars. And that is why the question is: where is control and efficiency in management? Thank you for admitting these oversights in your department. [[Replications from OP.]] And now I would like to comment on the decision that you will support. Information on the measures taken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Great! We get the information, so what? How are we going to improve these people's lives? Is that our job? Information on the actions taken on the social assessment of people with disabilities. Let's meet them, let's talk and hear their needs. They don't need to be evaluated, believe me. Thank you. [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Here's a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u114	Dear Mr. Popovski, why didn't you tell the whole truth in your speech? Why didn't you say they were all waving from bronchial asthma or epilepsy? Why didn't you say that in your statement? That's why we're at 800,000 disability pensions. That's why we want a review of these pensions, Mr. Popovski. Because a lot of these pensions are fake. No one opposes one group to the other. However, the truth is that 800,000 pensions need to be reviewed. And those who, on the back of those miserable people back there, win, healthy as bulls, need to get over this thing at last. And why didn't you say, Mr. Popovski, that we've only been in the station for two months? These disability pensions of 800 thousand who gave them? Those who once ruled the country so far. [[(Replicates from the BSP for Bulgaria: GERB, GERB!]] Several times! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u115	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. You have the floor for the back. You don't want to. Dr. Ademov, you have the floor to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister, honourable representatives of the people with disabilities! The scope of today's discussion on the questioning of the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria is extremely wide, so I will try to address some of the problems that this discussion poses within the limited time. The main objective of implementing policy in the area of integration of disabled people is to create conditions and legal guarantees for equal treatment and full participation of disabled people in all areas of public life, as well as to exercise their rights by providing socio-economic support to disabled people and their families. I would like to point out that policies for disabled people are regulated in international and national strategic documents. I want to tell you some of these strategic documents because they are extremely important. First is the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was ratified by the Bulgarian Parliament in 2012. Next, but not least, of course, is the European strategy for people with disabilities 2010 - 2020. There is also a National Strategy for People with Disabilities 2016 - 2020. There is one Action Plan for the Republic of Bulgaria to implement the Convention of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 2015 - 2020 and in this plan there are set goals, there are ways to monitor the implementation of these objectives in advance. And now, ladies and gentlemen, pay attention to what I am about to tell you in a moment and which is official information from the statistics of the European Commission. These numbers, which I will tell you shortly, are part of the National Strategy for Integration of Disabled People in Bulgaria, so this is official data. Every sixth person in the European Union has some degree of disability, every sixth person in 500 million Europe. In Europe, in the 28 Member States of the European Union, 80 million are currently people with varying degrees of disability.. 80 million according to the official statistics of the European Commission. In the age range over 65 years the people with disabilities are 54%, and in the range 16 years are 18%. Make up your own mind whether these people you are talking about, 800 thousand or 900 thousand disability pensions are many or few in Bulgaria. Moreover, I understand that it is difficult for you to distinguish between those with disability pensions and those with socially invalid pensions, which are somewhere between 49 and 50 thousand, and the rest are an addition to the pension that people who have acquired the right to a pension for internship and age. However, this addition of nearly half of these 900 thousand pensions since 2015, is no longer a legal text, no longer receiving it. They only get it and only the ones that are the ones that are involved. You can decide whether these 450, nearly 500 thousand disability pensions in Bulgaria are much or little against the background of the statistics that I told you just now. And this discussion is extremely counterproductive on the subject of false disability pensions, false expert decisions by TELM and I will tell you why. Ladies and gentlemen, disability pensions in Bulgaria are calculated on the basis of a methodology of the Ministry of Health and each disease has a very specific percentage. Whether this methodology is the best or not is quite another matter. But the people of TelK issue expert decisions based on medical documents. If anyone doubts that the expert decisions issued are false, let them challenge the documents issued, and you all know that when a false document is issued, criminal liability is held. Please state all these cases and do not say that 800,000 pensions must be revised. If you say that, tell me what the mechanism is, what is the way this can happen so that we can end this discussion once and for all. I'm not saying there's no fake medical records. I didn't say that. Perhaps there are people who do not deserve to have such a disability pension, only that this guilt cannot be passed on to everyone else. There's no way that's gonna happen. I'd like to take a detailed look at the medical expertise on workability. Dear colleagues, the expert decision is the universal key to 64 types of support, which follow from this expert decision of TelK 64 types of support. TELK's expert solution is the universal input to the system, and since this universal input to the system's input suggests a universal solution, see what this is about? The Social Assistance Directorate has the so-called expert committees that, on the basis of a social report, make a social assessment. But the medical report, the telk decision, what's it gonna give? It gives the functional deficit, the percentage of loss of performance to the healthy person, and where's the rest of the expertise? Where's the forensics? It must be carried out at the Social Assistance Directorate. Yes, but the Social Assistance Directorate, given that there are no policies developed in other sectoral policies for disabled people to take into account individual needs, whatever decision these people make from these eight-member committees, one chairman, one secretary and six other members, without or insufficient other policies for disabled people, there is no way that this universal access at the entrance of the system cannot be transferred to the exit. This is the huge problem, and that is why the World Health Organization offers something else that needs to be introduced in Bulgaria, that is, we need to assess the residual performance of people, because, in addition to the percentage of damage, these people have residual workability and this residual workability is a guarantee that they should be active, and activity allows social inclusion, that is the basic idea that these people should be socially included, to be included in the system of education, health care, but for this they are necessary... [[The President signals that time has run out]] . I'm done, Madam President. This requires horizontal measures in all sectoral policies. It won't happen with just one measure. Therefore, the new methodology must be consistent with the international classification of functioning, disability and health. I end up with one sentence that we all need to remember: nothing about disabled people without disabilities. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u117	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. A line? Professor. Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u118	Dear Minister, honourable President, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Ademov, I didn't expect such a speech from you. You were absolutely right in the data you submitted, and in the recitals, they were very expert and very well done and it was fair. What I'm going out for is a line, and I want to tell you that we're shifting the debate. You claim that we oppose one another with disabilities, which is not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u119	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u120	We didn't say, Dr. Ademov, that all those 800 grand are fake invalids. We say that among them there is a very large number, which through bribes, through all sorts of counterfeits have become such and receive unfairly those money that should receive the people who are standing back there. [[He points to the disabled in the hall.]] That is why their money is less and that is why there is no money and that is right and it is fair and we are the first to raise this issue so categorically. Don't shift the debate, it's not about opposition, it's about a revision, it's about one, what to call it, a reform of this whole system and it has to be omnipotent. Here you're right. But you shifted the question and it was not shifted directly, but in the context of your speech. You emphasize things that are known, which are important, but do not emphasize what is vice, and vice is that. You know how far our society has fallen apart and you know that such phenomena are mass, they are ubiquitous and not just in this area. And now we bring it up, and here the colleagues on the left are throwing themselves at us as if this job had started when the United Patriarchs entered the government. That's unfair, that's cynical, and that's not true, of course. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u121	Thank you. That was Prof. Chandler's first line. Stanilov. Second line, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Making politics with people's pain, children shouldn't. I don't know how many of you in the gym have in your family a disabled child. The day before yesterday, my granddaughter turned 18 years old, who is a disabled child, and I know what it's like to have a disabled child in your home. My line is to Mr. Ademov. Mr. Ademov, when you criticize the handicaps in the system...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u123	[[DPS, from place]] I'm not criticizing anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u124	... You're right, there are disabilities in the social system. We deal with this system every year, every quarter, every month. You are right that there are disabilities in the system and you best know where they are, who they are and very competent critics. I'm asking you: in the government that you were ruling and what you're talking about to Mr. Oresharski, you were a minister! Why didn't you heal the system? That's my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u125	That was a second line from Mr. Gurnevsky. Third line, Mr. Popovski, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u126	Dear Mr. Ademov, you are a clinical specialist like me. There are a few of us in this room that we absolutely understand what we're talking about right now. You know that there are people in Bulgaria who are not sick with absolutely nothing. They are in an internal clinic and this patient comes out after seven days with an epicrisis that says that this person is a diabetic of insulin. He's not diabetic at all! And it says he's an insulin diabetic! This person goes to the TelK and receives a disability pension. Do you know how many there are in this country? That's it? There are 38 children registered in one Jeep from the gypsy community - 34 of them with epilepsy. Do you think even one of them faints? If we take them all to a children's clinic and stop therapy, let's see how many of them pass out within the next two or three days! You know exactly what we're talking about today. I'm sorry there's only a few people. We're having unnecessary arguments here from the point of view of medicine what's right and what's wrong. Again, the resource we spend is uniquely large. It can be redirected in completely different directions. This resource is a billion Bulgarian leva of the year. I can give you another example. Trakia Highway, in its undeveloped part, costs 980 million. In the pockets of the false invalids sink a highway - Hemus. Excuse me - North Bulgaria, from Belokopitovo to Yablanitsa. This one billion-dollar highway goes down every year in the pockets of false invalids. That's what I'm saying from this tribune is very responsible. A colleague from my clinic, where I worked 20 days ago, a month ago, gets a disability pension of 500 BGN. And it doesn't work much, and I'm operated on by severe spinal surgery, doing over 100 surgeries a year, getting no disability, never going to TELK. The one who doesn't work takes 500 leva. on the salary. I'm saying this very responsibly, and I know why I'm telling you these things. And you understand me very well! Thank you. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u127	That was a third line. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] Once you've finished your line-and-dent procedure, I'll give you the floor. Here you go, Dr. Ademov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u128	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your lines! I keep thinking that people with disabilities don't deserve this kind of discussion. They don't deserve this kind of discussion, because I'm going back to the last thing Dr. Popovski said, if there's a billion of them, I'm opening up a clamp and I can't figure out how you're calculating them: 150 thousand fakes, 1 billion misconstrued, I don't know what that discussion is. I don't know the way you calculate these things. I'm sure you're not aware of it either, but you're comfortable saying these things so that you can defend the thesis that other policies will be implemented with saved money from one place. No, colleagues, not 1 billion. 700, as much as they pay for disability pensions, these people should be offered a policy under which they are dignified, with their residual productivity, should have income from work, not rely on the money you are talking about. This one, first. The second thing, I am still convinced to argue that the Minister will also confirm that there are no false disability pensions. Disabled pensions are based on medical records. If you have information about those who have false medical records, pass it where it is necessary, and not from this tribune to claim that there are 10, 20 or 50 people. We can't pass faults on to all disabled people for allowing someone somewhere to issue a false document. The expert decision of TELK, honourable Members, is in accordance with the Ordinance. You have an epicrisis that says you have a certain disease, if this epicrisis isn't true, it's a false document and nothing else. Do you understand that? If you understand this, then from this tribune the discussion will be quite different. As for Mr. Gurnevsky's question. For the time I've been in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, I have no reason to worry about any of my actions or inactions. If you think these problems can be solved by a ministry... Here's the big difference between the way I think, which I have with my colleagues, and the rest. I'll tell you why. One ministry, one office can't solve this problem. This is a problem of society as a whole, of the attitudes of society, of the moods of society to accept these people not as different, but as part of us, on the one hand. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, these people want to work. These people don't rely on handouts, they don't rely on money to be donated to them by someone. They want to earn this money and live in a dignified way so that they can be worthy, equal citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u129	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. It's pre-speech procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u130	Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct to remind you that from this high tribune lies should not be heard, because from this tribune for about 20 minutes there have been used lies, false numbers, false data. Although I cannot replicate to Mr. Popovski, I will tell him that 500 thousand people in Bulgaria are taking disability pensions, and people with disabilities, although the word is used by people with disabilities and people with disabilities, such a word is not correct. There's a word and it's a disabled person. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u131	Thank you. You can take a statement to develop your thesis, Mr. Hristov. A statement was made by the parliamentary group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u132	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! In 2016, the Decision of the Council of Ministers adopted a National Strategy for Disabled People 2016. The Strategy was prepared in connection with the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities and in implementation of the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 2015. The national strategy is the main political document that defines the priority objectives and measures. The aim of the National Strategy is to enable disabled people to exercise their rights by providing equal opportunities for their full participation in the economic, social and cultural life of society. In implementation of the Strategy, an Action Plan for the period 2016 - 2018 has been adopted. Each institution and organisation has set specific measures for implementation, duration and sources of funding. A report on the implementation of the 2016-2018 plan will be prepared by 31 March 2019, which will contain information, reporting data and statistics from all responsible institutions and organisations, as well as an analysis on the implementation of each of the measures envisaged. On 26 January 2012, the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria ratified by law the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The implementation of the Convention, as part of the domestic law of the country, requires that a clear plan for the implementation of the commitments, good coordination and fruitful dialogue between all executive units and organisations, especially for people with disabilities, is in place in order to improve their situation. The implementation of the first action plan containing measures for the implementation by the Republic of Bulgaria of the Regulatory Framework and Policies in the field of people with disabilities, in accordance with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 2013 Decision No 467 of the Council of Ministers of 25 June 2015 adopted the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria implementing the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 2015 The Action Plan contains six main priorities aimed at improving the quality of life and social inclusion of disabled people. The current Action Plan sets out measures for the development of concepts under the individual members of the Convention, which contain proposals for changes in the regulations, and that is why the relevant competent institutions are involved. In accordance with international and national documents, including the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, amendments to the Social Assistance Act and its Implementation Rules were adopted in 2016, which supplemented and improved the standards and criteria for location and material base of social services. Changes have been adopted regulating the terms and conditions for the accommodation of persons, including those placed under detention in a specialised institution or social service of a resident type. The social services shall be provided in accordance with the desire and personal choice of persons, including adults, placed under suspension. As regards existing mechanisms facilitating access to a court of persons suffering from mental disabilities, it should be borne in mind that changes to the Social Assistance Act were adopted in January 2016, one of the most important is the introduction of a new order of accommodation in specialised institutions for persons placed under full or restricted detention. Texts were adopted which comply with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and allow the application of the standards of art. 12. Regardless of the measures taken and given the identified serious challenges in the sector, the development of a special new Social Services Act has started. At present, there is a concept of the Law that outlines the focus of the new regulatory framework, namely improving the system for financing and providing social services, planning, quality of services, developing systems for monitoring and control the effectiveness of the services offered. The Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 in force from 1 January 2017 changes have been made to the Family Aid Act which introduces a new type of monthly support for raising a child with permanent disability under art. 8e. The aid shall be differentiated depending on the extent of the damage or the degree of reduced child performance and in accordance with its intended purpose. The aid shall be granted independently of the income of the families. These aids, as well as other family aid, are not linked to the work or to the contribution of the persons. For all children with permanent disabilities, the new aid is granted to meet the basic and specific needs due to disability. In order to coordinate the implementation of the Action Plan, Order No RD-01-754 of 4 September 2015 of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy established an Interdepartmental Expert Working Group, including representatives of all state institutions and non-governmental organizations concerned with the policy of people with disabilities. It should be noted that the implementation of the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities continues until 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Dobreva. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Gokov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u134	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mrs. Dobreva, my line is very short, since there is no time. I understand from your statement that great works have been done in the social sphere, especially for people with disabilities. I am interested in you bragging about this National Strategy and its Action Plan, why are you rejecting from our decision the Analysis of the implementation and control of this Strategy and the spending of the financial resources on it? Answer the question: how has the situation changed for people with disabilities before there is such a Strategy adopted by you and after you have accepted it? Tell me, if you've done so much work, why do these people protest outside almost daily? [[World applause from the BSP for Bulgaria and from parents with disabled children in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u135	That was Mr. Gokov's first line. Here's a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u136	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear colleague Dobreva, my line will be even shorter. After we talked so much about this National Strategy, would you please list without reading four of its six priorities? Yes, yes, thank you, give it to her, Miss Angelova! I've seen it! Thank you. That's how much you know!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u137	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Is there a third line? I won't. Would you like a duplicate, Mrs. Dobreva? You don't want to. Any other speeches? The word is Mr. Kutev to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u138	Honourable Members, Madam President, Dear Minister! Mr. Minister, you will have a difficult mandate in my opinion with regard to people with disabilities, first because obviously the Plan is late. We talked about this yesterday and you know we're late. The problem is not that the plan is late, but that the plan is fictitious. There are not one working group, but many working groups that are difficult to create in 2017, however, from 2017 to 2020 have to work out some legislation. From 2017 to 2020 there are three years. In these three years I do not know whether you will be a minister, whether I will be a member of parliament, but it is clear that you and I will get our salaries. I ask: what will they do? If these three years for us with you is a time when we receive wages or do not receive them, for them it is pain and alienation. Three years is a long time to make legislation. [[Noise and lines.]] The plan was done badly, and it wasn't implemented. And that's your job! Yours and the majority! When a child has 90% damage, thanks to some good steps from the past government, it gets a think of BGN 960. [[Heckling]] As soon as he's 18 years old, he starts to get 162 BGN. after the 1 July increase. One hundred sixty-two levs after the increase! Only his injuries don't get any smaller, but he gets them for life. There is no other limit, no other years after which to begin to receive more than 162 leva. After the increase, I say again. And with 162 leva. He can't live! Separately, when it received BGN 930, as you said, it lost energy supplements and aid because it was rich and because these payments were not integrated. This, Minister, is your business! And to the majority! Those who speak of false pensions are their business. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] What's scary is not that you're talking about it, but that you're in charge and that you're in charge of people's destiny! That's what's scary. Guaranteed minimum income. Gentlemen, there is no guaranteed minimum income in your decision! You took it off. Sixty-five leva occurred in the time of Stanishev, since Stanishev is gone. Zero!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u139	Why didn't you do it in Oresharski's time? All social payments are based on guaranteed minimum income. Zero magnification for 10 years! [[Noise and lines.]] For the next three-year forecast...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u140	Don't scold us!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u141	I'm not gonna yell at you, these people are waiting for money from you, not from me! [[Noise and lines from GERB. Huge applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There is no increase for the next three-year forecast, gentlemen. See the forecast that you have approved the three-year budget forecast, according to the same guaranteed minimum income there is no increase. That's why you're taking him away from the decision, gentlemen of GERB! [[Noise and lines.]] You're taking it off because you don't expect an increase! And he's got all the social payments on him. Everything these people are waiting for, they step on it, along with frozen social payments! A are frozen from the moment Borisov 1 came to power. There was a slight lift at Oresharski, then they were frozen again. GERB is coming and everything freezes if it's a social payment! By the way, the salaries of MPs and ministers do not freeze. At least not like this, while those payments are freezing. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u142	They're not freezing!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u143	They're freezing, sir, they're freezing! [[Noise and lines.]] Ask them how much their payments have increased in these years? You said, "It's coming, come and tell me how much they've increased, don't call from the spot!" Come and say, I have increased them! [[Lowered applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u144	Please, Mr. Kutev, don't have such a dialogue. Are there any lines? You're welcome to join us in the manner of conduct. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u145	Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues, honored guests! Madam President, I appeal to you because a colleague allows himself too much to theatre and abuse. First, he does not use respectful forms for his colleagues. It's obvious that the theatre has a higher value in this room. [[Noise and lines.]] I understand that moral extinction also has different positions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u146	Please don't say any lines from the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u147	When one of the MPs, regardless of which parliamentary group, decides to insult other MPs, please be in your place! When a Member of the National Assembly decides that, in view of the theatre, it can be more moral, it is your place to be in this chair and to put that Member of the National Assembly in his place. [[Applause from GERB.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u148	We will anticipate further amendments to the Rules of Procedure for theatrical punishment, so far there is none. [[Noise and lines. Replies from the National Representative Danail Kirilov, who wants the word in the manner of conduct.]] I give the floor of speech to Dr. Rumen Genov, and then I will give you the floor in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u149	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Minister, Dear Guests, representatives of people with disabilities! Since the subject of expertise has been used a lot, I would like to make a few points on what we think should be the vision and direction of the work of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in relation to the improvement and possible change of this expertise. In principle, we will draw from the fact that the current model of medical expertise should be divided into two sides, there should be medical expertise in a purely medical sense, and the expertise of workability. The medical expertise will determine the type and extent of damage, with their expert opinion in fact providing specialists in the relevant clinical specialities and, naturally, the organization and management should be carried out by the Ministry of Health and the other expertise on the work of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will now be focused on the work of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. In principle, work must be done to establish a new approach which evaluates, on the one hand, the ability of the person with permanent, reduced workability to do some work and, on the other hand, his opportunities for inclusion in the labour market, taking into account his education, qualification, knowledge and experience. That is, this is the so-called residual working potential in these people. The goal, if we have to define it in this way, is that people with disabilities at workable age receive particular attention to increase their chances of full realization without, as they struggle to get some colleagues out without taking away or violating acquired rights. The idea is not to limit the resources that society spends on people, but to make sure that these funds are spent in the most effective way and reach those who need them. In this regard, Dr. Ademov was also affected by this question in his speech, it is necessary in the medical expertise and expertise of the workability to set out the methodologies which are methodologies for evaluation by the International Classification of Human functionality, disability and health. I guess everyone knows that the World Health Organization has one family of three classifications These are: the International Classification of Diseases and the other is the International Classification of Procedures in Medical Institutions. The third, which is not yet applied in Bulgaria, is this International Classification of Human functionality, disability and health. As a result of all these procedures, the opportunities for integration of disabled people in the labour market should be improved, because in practice, an absolutely adequate assessment of the type and extent of damage will be made, as in the other, the expertise of workability, the ability of these individuals to work. That is, the main focus of the meaning of dividing the expertise of these two experts is with one expertise to fully engage clinical experts, they give an opinion on what is the health status of the person who has received disabilities and the other expertise to deal with this... what opportunities this person has for work. Here comes the question, which also addressed the question of social assessment. In principle, as a long-term measure, it is our opinion that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will have to prepare in a new form a social assessment of people with disabilities, which should be aimed not only on the basis of social assistance, but, in principle, at the specific needs and needs of the persons and the opportunity for them to find appropriate work. At present, there are difficulties for staff from the social assistance centres in carrying out regular meetings of the Commission due to the absence of experts from the other institutions or none in the smaller settlements. I'm from a place like this. This leads to incomplete reflection in the social assessment of individual needs and, in practice, at this stage, lacks a single comprehensive assessment of needs. A fundamental principle in our view in these committees, which needs to be applied, is that they are experts and specialists to be paid and responsible for their work and the expert decisions given. The participation of disabled persons in the preparation of this assessment is also mandatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u150	Thank you, Dr. Genov. Are there any lines to the MP's statement? I can't see. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u151	Thank you. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, dear guests! I would like to put to your attention one of the many problems of people with disabilities, namely the issue of aids, facilities and medical devices, which are guaranteed to them by the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities and the Law on Social Assistance. Every year, with the State Budget Act, the budget of your ministry is allocated a huge resource to buy them. In recent years, about 50 million have been allocated for this. BGN, even exceeds, with about 10,000 persons with disabilities being used for a year. At the same time, the fixed marginal prices are insufficient and do not meet their quality. There is no adequate control over the quality of these devices and fittings, no standard for validating the quality of the suppliers and support producers provided by the companies under Annex No 7. There is also no criterion for determining the service life. The registration regime of the suppliers of these products and facilities does not provide a guarantee of control, there is no information on why the manufacturers and suppliers are deleted from the Register of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. There is no public information as to how much and what types of gadgets and items have been repaired before the expiry of the warranty periods, what funds have been allocated for this. There is no analysis, assessment or anything similar to the reliability of technical tools and gadgets, the possibility of re-evaluation of depreciation periods, an increase in shelf life and, respectively, a replacement. Just a few days ago, here at the National Assembly, at the auction organized by MPs, we saw the state of the aids prescribed. Too long and bureaucratic is the road that a disabled person should walk until he receives the assistance, gadgets, facilities or medical devices prescribed by TelK or LKK. In this regard, Mr. Minister, do you foresee a change in the work of the departments for people with disabilities in order to reduce bureaucratic requirements? From the point of view of savings in financial resources, the departments for people with disabilities at the Social Assistance Directorate apply control over the decisions issued by the medical committees, or are they only in their role as paying agency? Is it not time for the long-considered idea that the provision of assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices should be done through the Ministry of Health, insofar as they are prescribed by medical committees? New groups of technical devices and fittings appear on the market. I would therefore like to ask the question: what is the order for them to be included on the list of people with disabilities? What is being done to include new groups of people with disabilities? Since the guaranteed minimum income is a basis for various social payments under four laws, what is envisaged for its amendment and specific use for the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities? People with disabilities are like all of us. They're just like everyone else. They're different because there are barriers. They face them every day. It's our role to overcome them. Our policies depend on their removal. Therefore, Minister, we are aware of the problems, now it is your turn to all of us together to improve the lives of these people. They've been waiting for it for years. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Are there any lines? I can't see. Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? No requests. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u153	Madam President, I would like a procedure to extend the time to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u154	Procedure for extending the time to vote on the decision?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u155	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u156	Voting procedure. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Dear Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u157	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable representatives of the disabled people! The duration and depth of the debate on the topic of policies for people with disabilities shows that this is one of the most important social topics on the agenda of our society, and that is from the first moment when the new team of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy came into its powers. This topic is really on our daily basis and we are making efforts to develop policies and, in the short term, implementing measures to address issues and protect the rights of people with disabilities. Since some of the issues raised in the debate and the speeches were devoted to the documents that our country has adopted for the protection and guarantee of the rights of disabled people, I would just like to add that in the adopted Plan for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Disabled People, which has been adopted and has been acting since 2015, with a horizon of up to 2020, there are several important strategic objectives. The first part of the activities for the implementation of the Plan are, so to speak, organisational, related to the formation of expert working groups for the designation of bodies for the coordination and monitoring of the implementation of the Convention on the Coordination and Implementation of the Action Plan, something that has already been done. More importantly, and what is to be fulfilled is the drafting of concepts of changes to the regulations implementing individual members of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, making themselves changes to the regulations themselves and ratifying the Optional Protocol to the Convention. I do not want to dwell on what has been done so far on the activities related to the implementation of the Action Plan for the Application of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, I will only point out that in the middle of this month Bulgaria was Chairman of the International Conference on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in New York. The overall assessment it received for its activities for the chairmanship of this conference is positive. However, with regard to the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Convention, what the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is committed to doing is to speed up the implementation of the objectives set out in this Plan, which, once again, I stress, has a duration of 2015 to 2020. What I think is less affected in the debate is something that I think has been done and is still being done in order to ease the lives of disabled people and, in fact, to support their social inclusion. We are talking about the development of social services, both of the resident type and in the community, as what the Ministry stated as its priority and took concrete action, is related to the accelerated adoption of the Law on Social Services. Since 21 June, a concept of the Social Services Act has already been published on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and in the platform on which drafts of regulations are published. After the expiry of the public consultation period, the established working group with broad representation, including people with disabilities, will work accordingly on preparing texts and realising conceptual intentions for this new Law, because it is undeniable that social services are actually the tool for social inclusion of people from vulnerable groups, including people with disabilities. What has been mentioned many times in the debate is the need to reform the model of medical and labour expertise. On this major task, too, I would like to emphasise once again that policies for people with disabilities related to, including reforming the expertise of medical and labour expertise, are not solely the task of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Their implementation involves, above all, very good coordination between the responsible authorities. I can say that a working group has been set up, which should prepare a concept of this reform, which will also be presented to your attention. On the basis of this concept, to prepare the necessary changes to a small number of laws, and then to the regulation which will implement this desired change in the model of expertise. It is basically because the assessment of disability and the need for integration of people with disabilities is based on two things - medical expertise, on the one hand, and secondly, the social assessment, which, as we mentioned, also has something to be desired. What the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will undertake yesterday was also mentioned in the hearing in the Commission on interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints. First, for a rapid improvement of the social assessment, which is within the framework of the legislation in force, and in a short term and the necessary regulatory changes for the implementation of a new type of social assessment, which is complex in its nature and at the same time is consistent with the individual needs of each person. With regard to personal assistants, who are very important to support and alleviate the lives of disabled people, what we have as a primary task, is to ensure sustainability of these services, because, as has been said in the debates, their implementation has been ensured so far, above all, by project funding, which has also led to these inconveniences for people with disabilities, which we have referred to.. very often they are forced to apply for approval in the respective programmes and measures. What the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has undertaken with a view to the expiry of some of the contracts with municipalities to provide this service by the end of the year is urgent changes and a redirection of funds to finance these activities and, for the following year, the provision of the necessary amount of national funding to ensure sustainability of the supply of these services. With regard to integration supplements and that really after the increase of the family assistance for children with disabilities with a degree of disability of over 90% and foreign aid, which from the beginning of this year is 930 BGN, there is a sharp decline after the age of these years in the amount of financial support of the adults. What the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will work on is to ensure an increase in the amount of financial support for adults with disabilities. Whether this is going to happen by increasing the guaranteed minimum income that we are talking about here, or if we are looking for another mechanism to increase integration supplements, it is important that the objective we are setting is to increase financial support for people with disabilities who are of age. At the end of my speech, I would like to make two important points, in my view, relating to issues raised during the debate. Families of disabled children will not lose the right to target heating aid due to the increased amount of family support for children. Measures have been taken. On the Ministry's website are published for public discussion amendments to Regulation No 5 on the terms and conditions for providing heating aid, which ensure the preservation of the right of families of disabled children and, respectively, pensioners whose pensions, as you voted on, will be increased from 1 July to a large part of them, to remain in the circle of persons who will be entitled to targeted heating aid. The other, which is on the issue of medical devices and aids, yes, the resource is inefficient, the not small resource that is being directed. It was mentioned that the annual size is about 50 million leva. Clumsy, bureaucratic is the procedure for providing it. This also makes it difficult for people with disabilities. What we have pledged and proposed in the management program of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is to reform this area. Our view is that the right place for this activity is not in the "Society" department, where people do not have a qualification to assess exactly what medical device and whether it is the most appropriate for individuals, but in the health care system, where we believe that this resource will be spent much more effectively, will go as intended, because the control over money spending will do the one that determines this cost the medical advisory committees, the telephone groups and so on. Finally, I would like to say that we are in a dialogue with the representatives of people with disabilities. We're having meetings. Yesterday, as Mr. Kutev mentioned, there was a hearing in the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints, a fruitful discussion with the National Council for Disabilities, which will resume its work after its composition was updated. All these issues will be discussed following the principle that Dr. Ademov recalled and, which we share, that nothing for people with disabilities should happen without them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u158	Thank you, Minister Petkov. I'm closing the debate. There's a vote coming up. Dear colleagues, you will allow me to read the text of the first draft decision: The National Assembly HAS DECIDED I. Instructs the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to submit to the National Assembly by 15 July 2017: 1. Analysis of the implementation and control of the National Strategy for Persons with Disabilities 2016 - 2020 and of the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 2015 - 2020 2. Information on planned for 2017 and subsequent years in perspective by 2020 financial resources for the implementation of the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 2015 - 2020 3. Information on the implementation and development in the future of: - social services - private and social assistant, which are provided in the community; - promotional programs and measures for employment and training of disabled people, as well as for the development of their own business. 4. Systematised information on payments and benefits to which disabled persons are entitled, including in the context of the transition to adulthood. 5. A vision for the system of work and medical expertise, in its part of the working expertise of the existing situation and future development. 6. Analysis of the social assessments of people with disabilities under Chapter 3 of the Law on the Integration of People with Disabilities 7. A vision to change the guaranteed minimum income. II. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall take the necessary steps to implement the information database for people with permanent disabilities under art. 9 of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, and by 31 December 2017 no later than 31 December 2017, the database shall have content, up-to-date and organisation ensuring the possibility of achieving in full the legally defined objectives of its establishment. III. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy should take action in his competence to increase the size of the targeted social integration aid for people with disabilities and to foresee an increase with the State Budget Act for 2018. By 31 December 2017, in the exercise of its powers under art. 44, para. 3 of the Law on Integration for People with Disabilities and Art. 40, para. 2 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, agreed with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy, to update and update the limits of aid for the development, purchase or repair of medical devices and/or aids, devices and facilities. We are voting on the draft decision proposed by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 118 MPs: 44, against 3, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the next draft decision. I'll read the text because it wasn't read. The National Assembly HAS DECIDED I. Instructs the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to present to the National Assembly: 1. Information on the measures taken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to ensure sustainability of the social services "Personal assistant", "Social assistant" and "Home assistant" after the completion of the funding under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" 2014-2020, by 30 September 2017. 2. Information on the actions taken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on compliance with the social assessment of disabled people with regard to their individual needs by 30 September 2017. 3. Concept for reforming the system for the expertise of workability, by 31 October 2017. The decision was adopted by the forty-fourth National Assembly of... 2017 and is stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly. We are voting on the draft decision proposed by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. Vote 117 MPs: 79, against 2, abstention 36. The motion is accepted. Negative vote please, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u159	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u160	Aren't you ashamed of 34 people? Aren't you ashamed? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u161	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u162	Madam President, I don't know what this is about. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u163	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u164	Where are your 80 people?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u165	Where are your 80 people?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u166	Mr. Gokov submitted an opinion of an importer. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u167	I don't see who should be ashamed if you wait, I'll tell you. [[The National Representatives of GERB and OP leave the hall.]] I voted against your proposal because it is a document, a decision written on foot. If you look at it, there is not even a logical sequence of a document written on your feet, only to be in the game and to show concern for people with disabilities, such as there is no and no breath from your document. I voted against because your proposal for a decision does not contain any solutions that will lead to real changes in the state and policies aimed at people with disabilities and does not correspond at all to the depth of the debate that has taken place in this House, nor does it correspond to the speech of Mr. Minister, with his intentions which he has declared. At least you should have consulted him quickly on what he wanted to do by writing it to put it in your proposal for a decision. Why do you think that we insult people when we propose a comprehensive solution to a necessary but not sufficient condition for a change in policy to analyse all actions in social policy, to analyse strategies? Again: strategies have a ball, only we have no real results for these people, because they will continue to protest because we have no solution for them. By no means insulting people, insulting them by offering such simple solutions that do not solve your problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-30.u168	That was Mr. Gokov's negative vote. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear Members of Parliament, the next meeting is from 9:00 on 5 July 2017. We are done with the weekly work of the National Assembly. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
