ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u1	There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. We begin with the first item of today's agenda: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. Application by Nina Pejcheva Mitkova - MP from the parliamentary group of Volya, Election District 16, Plovdiv city: "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I wish that my authority as a Member of the National Assembly be terminated for reasons of personal nature by a decision of the National Assembly pursuant to art. 72, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Signature, 27 September 2017 In this regard, I offer you the following official "Project" DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the mandate of Nina Peycheva Mitkova as MP from the Sixteenth Election Region, Plovdiv. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote proposals a draft decision. Vote 168 MPs: 153 against 8, abstention 7. The draft decision has been adopted. Point two is: THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR INSTALLATION AND CONSUMER PROTECTION, FIRST VOTE. The report for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food will be presented to you by the National Representative Dimitar Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 754-01-54, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 13 September 2017. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 14 September 2017, discussing a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 754-01-54, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 13 September 2017. In the meeting of the Commission took part of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry: Atanas Dobrev Deputy Minister, from the Executive Agency for Forests: Rumen Yankulov Representatives of the Bulgarian Society for the Protection of Birds and of the Association of Parks in Bulgaria were also present. The bill was presented by the MP Alexander Sabanov. The Law proposes that the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests may, by order, change the time limits for hunting of game-hunters and regulate the number of game stocks depending on the biological development of game and the damage caused by it. The order will be issued in consultation with the Minister of Environment and Water, on a proposal from the Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency or the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. The appeal to the order will not stop its execution. In its opinion, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry supports the Bill, but draws attention to the fact that no time limit laid down by law can be changed by order. In the subsequent discussion, MPs from the parliamentary groups of the United patriots and of the Bulgarian BSP stressed that the proposal is being made in relation to the risk of the spread of African swine fever, as there are currently outbreaks of this disease in neighbouring Romania and there is a real danger that it will be transferred to the territory of the country. This would lead not only to the destruction of the wild but also to almost all the nakedness of pet pigs in the country. In this regard, preventive action is required and it is possible to enable the competent authorities to operate, especially given the lack of developed vaccine and the highly increased population of wild boar, which creates an additional risk of rapid spread of the disease. From the parliamentary group of the Voljas, they said they would not support the bill, as the arguments put forward by the importers are contradictory and the proposed text gives the Minister the right to change the time limits for hunting as he sees fit without being limited by conditions relating to response to crisis situations. The Association of Parks in Bulgaria recalled that in the Law and currently there is an opportunity for the Minister to apply sanitary shooting of wild animals as part of the measures for prevention, limitation and eradication of animal diseases. In addition, they stressed that the biological development of the game and the damage caused by it does not correspond in any way to the prevention of the disease. The Bulgarian Society for the Protection of Birds also declared against the bill and the possibility by order of the Minister to set the time limits for hunting. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 13 votes for the game, 1 vote against the game, and 5 votes abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Wildlife, No 754-01-54, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 13 September 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Report from the Committee on Environment and Water. Mrs. Todorova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on the Environment and Waters on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 754-01-54, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 13 September 2017. At its meeting held on 28 September 2017, the Committee on Environment and Waters examined at first reading the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 754-01-54, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 13 September 2017 and allocated to the Commission on Agriculture and Food as the lead. The meeting was attended by Mr. Atanas Dobrev, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, Mr. Grigor Gogov, Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Forests, Mr. Rumen Yankulov, Director of Directorate, Ms. Denitsa Alexandrova, Mrs. Daniela Angelova, Director of the Department of Law at the Forests Executive Agency, Mr. Valeri Georgiev, Head of the Department of Biological Diversity at the Directorate of National Nature Protection at the Ministry of Environment and Water. The President of the Commission Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva opened the meeting, presented the guests and announced the agenda adopted unanimously by the members of the Commission and then gave the floor for the presentation of the bill. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by the National Representative Alexander Sabanov, who noted that the current proposal for change aims to provide for the possibility by order of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests to change the time limits for hunting certain game species according to the specific environment in coordination with the Minister of Environment and Water. This is due to an increase in game stocks and the associated frequented damage from it. The Member of the National Assembly also pointed out a complication of the epizootic situation related to the spread of African swine fever leading to significant economic losses. According to importers, the possibility of changing the time limits for hunting certain game species will respond adequately to these problems. People's representative Aleksandar Sabanov quoted data that the disease has caused serious damage in countries such as Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, and noted that there is no treatment for African plague and vaccines. In his words, the disease has already reached Romania and preventive action is needed in this regard. A preliminary assessment of the impact under which it is budgetaryly neutral has also been applied to the Bill aimed at limiting economic losses. The bill does not provide for an increase in administrative burden and the need for immediate and subsequent changes to other regulations. Ms. Daniela Angelova from the Executive Forest Agency presented an opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, which in principle supports the bill, but pointed out that in the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests of the Directorate of Law, it is noted that by order of the Minister no time limit laid down in a legal provision can be changed. She stressed that such an order could be issued in agreement with the Minister of Environment and Water and would not be an arbitrary act. The opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Water was presented by Mr. Valeri Georgiev, who pointed out that to prevent the damage from the game an important condition is to take preventive measures within the defined hunting season and after carrying out in-depth monitoring of the population of the species. Georgiev stressed that the activities for regulating the number of game are also eligible in the current Law and the Rules for its implementation. The discussion was attended by the MPs Adrian Raykov, Atanas Kostadinov, Nikolay Penev, Ivelina Vassileva and Erjan Ebatin. The questions were answered by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Atanas Dobrev, the Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Forests Grigor Gogov, the National Representative Alexander Sabanov and the Director of the Directorate of the Executive Agency for Forests Rumen Yankulov. After the end of the discussion and the voting procedure, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 3 votes....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. Motives of an importer? Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u6	Thank you, Madam President. "Motivations to the Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game In relation to the increase in game stocks, the reported damage from the game is increasing. At the same time, the epizootic situation related to the spread of African swine fever is complicated, which leads to significant economic losses. In order to be able to respond adequately to these problems, it is necessary to provide for the possibility by order of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to change the time limits for the hunting of certain game species according to the specific situation following coordination with the Minister of Environment and Water as part of measures to prevent, limit and eradicate animal diseases. I would like to emphasise that this is about outbreaks of African plague that have occurred in our northern neighbour Romania, one, two, and there is a danger that it will be transferred to our country as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. I'm opening the debate. Statements, coworkers? Will there be speeches, or should I close the debate? There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game. Vote 170 MPs: 60 against 15, abstention 95. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, we're done with the agenda. Parliamentary control at 11:00 p.m. [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u8	Colleagues, please take your seats. We continue today: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 19 September 2017 to 28 September 2017. Hello, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! [[In the hall comes Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov, applause.]] A question was received from the MP Ivo Angelov Hristov to Ekaterina Zaharieva.. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for relations with the Russian Federation. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 6 October 2017. There is a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Mrs. Taskova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I take the floor concerned about a topic which, unfortunately, has turned into a daily one. It's about the aggression at school. Once again, we learn about beating. This time at school in Shumen. As a result, there's a child with a ruptured spleen. A while back, a kid died in a classroom after a classmate kick. I'm not gonna list examples of all of you watching TV, you all know them. What else needs to happen, colleagues, in order to take adequate management measures against child aggression? As a mother of two, I can't stand by! I can't help but react to this fall of values in our society, which we all silently observe. Something more frightening is happening: the first time we are shocked, the second time such information becomes part of the common criminal stream that floods us, on the third time we are no longer impressed. What is our society becoming, what generations are growing up, what examples of adults see them repeating them in such a cruel way? The rulers these days are bragging about how many millions they give for education, only notice, not for training and education, but for repairs, because, colleagues, there are commissions and thefts there, and in the upbringing and care for the mental health of our children there is no deal. It's the truth! Let's face it! Families are brought to a state of constant battle for elementary living conditions and survival. It is unnecessary to guess how this way of life is reflected in the atmosphere of homes and what children see and copy, because they are not born bitter and aggressive, they become so because of the environment we have created for them. On the other hand, what do we have? Humiliated teachers, forgotten by all institutions. There are thousands of unaccounted for. Until we give back the dignity of our teachers, it will be difficult to deal with any problem in the education system. Where's the Ministry? Is it there, or has it turned into someone's black box into a masterpiece of black-and-white textbook scandals? The institutions in the system have a huge responsibility for child aggression, but they, like most institutions in this country, have abdicated. They work day by day, without responsibility, without concern, without the desire to change the real thing. Colleagues, allow me to use this slang all the spheres in our country are clogged with problems and need general repairs everywhere. I'm not going to take the time to blame you for what you've been doing here all these years, so our country is so behind, I'm leaving that to your conscience. More important today are our children and their future. The future of our country! It is not enough that we are in a rapidly advancing demographic collapse, but we also let young people kill each other in schools, drug themselves on the streets, beat themselves up in the morning in the so-called Student City, for example. Total lack of values, of perspective! It is our responsibility to take measures and save our children from ourselves. I declare from this high tribune that the Parliamentary Group of Voljas will support all emergency measures in this direction. Colleagues, since we do not have the right to initiate the establishment of a committee, I am most strongly asking you and addressing Mr. Tsvetanov personally as Chairman of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and as a parent of three children, to establish a working group within the Commission to investigate all cases of violence and death of children in educational institutions. We propose to use all our parliamentary influence and create a crisis headquarters at the Ministry of Education. Let the inspectorates play their part. And even though I'm an Orthodox Christian, I think we can't just pray to God that our children come back alive and well after school. I call on teachers, parents, children, let us not transfer responsibility, let us unite! This is a national cause, and representatives from all parliamentary groups in this National Assembly have stated from this tribune that national causes have no colour and can be a common priority. Now is the time to prove it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u10	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova! We move on to the written answers from: - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Tsvetan Topchiev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the national representative Alexander Sabanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov on two questions from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev and Irena Atanasova; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Kalin Vassilev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of a question from the MPs Galya Zaharieva, Desislava Taneva, Tasco Ermenkov, Kolyo Mitev and Petar Hristov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Irena Atanasova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Adlen Shevked; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Hasan Ademov. Colleagues, we are continuing with today's parliamentary control. Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria. Here you are, Mrs. Yoncheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u11	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Today, in every city today, there is a sudjuk! Today, in each municipality there is a feudal who exercises his power outside his power, who distributes public procurement to his people who blackmail, who threatens. Bulgaria is becoming a feudal possession. A department where the most important thing is the business of the family. In every district city, corruption, replacement of procedures. Feudalized whole regions in the country: GERB MP blackmails a businessman in Dobrich for sudzhuk and threatens his business; the chairman of the Municipal Council in September shoots and kills a person; in Pernik the leader of GERB is embezzling municipal kindergarten; in Botevgrad. scandals in GERB related to corruption and trade with influence. However, what reaches the media is only a small part. Shurobajatina, non-pukism has always been in Bulgaria and that is why we are all guilty, but GERB are talking about new morality and I have to agree that this is really a new morality. The example in Haskovo Municipality is more than just a shrubadjanashtina. An unscrupulous and insolent scheme for subjugating the municipality from a family-friendly circle has been carried out, with a clear purpose of trading in public resources. To remind the municipality of Haskovo, at the request of the Regional Coordinator of GERB are appointed to key positions relatives, best men, former partners and classmates of the same regional coordinator of GERB and MP Mr. Dobrev. Deputy Mayor with portfolio "Strojestvosstvo" "Kostov" and former partner; second Deputy Mayor with former partner and classmate; Secretary of the municipality "Kuma"; Chairman of the municipal electoral commission "Kum," husband of the secretary of the municipality; [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] , Director of the Financial Directorate First Cousin; the Chairman of the Budget and Finance Committee, son-in-law, husband of the Director of the Financial Directorate, who is a shareholder in over 40 companies that earn public procurement for tens of millions of leva. Just one example, ladies and gentlemen: one of these companies is in the top three companies that sanitize buildings under the Energy Efficiency Programme. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] . This is the Haskovo scheme, this is the Haskovo model! The municipality is not the family table at which the closest relatives, best men and former associates are seated, where the family budget is allocated. It's about a lack of morals and a display of complete shamelessness. We see a politician legally taking over a community and seeing nothing wrong with that. It is unimaginable brazen to declare with pride how you rudely violate the Law on the Civil Service and the principle of competition in the state administration. For two years this friendly circle has managed the municipality without a competition in violation of the Law, and the secretary of the best man has no administrative experience, again in violation of the Law. The GERB model is the model of the ladybugs. Valeri Simeonov, coalition partner of GERB, said these days: People with completed preliminary proceedings are appointed, with questionable biography, because money must be used. Here's what we look like in the eyes of our partners, the United States of America: In a report by the US State Department for 2016 it says: "Employees in all branches of the government are involved in corruption practices. Punishment! Corruption practices include bribery, conflict of interest, complex schemes for embezzlement of money, broken orders and trading with influence. Although the law provides for criminal prosecution of corruption in power, the Bulgarian government does not implement the law effectively. Bulgarian Prime Minister Borisov spoke about prevention and countering corruption. Show him that reaction, Mr. Borisov! At least from the best man's shame! And aren't you the one who said it would eliminate any doubt about corruption, including nepotism? Today the cashing of power is brutal and without restraint. Some do it at state level, others at district level, third at city level. Mr. Dobrev said on national television that it is normal in a small town like Haskovo that everyone should know each other. This is his explanation for the family business circle running the municipality. I will ask: How many small cities are there in Bulgaria? Dobrich, September, are Pernik small enough? How small does the city have to be in order for the Haskovo scheme of GERB to exist? What about Bulgaria? Is Bulgaria a small country? Yeah, she's a little girl, and she's gonna get smaller and smaller and each one of us is gonna get smaller while we keep quiet. While we remain silent about the humiliation the Bulgarian is subjected to, we remain silent for years about Mr. Sudzuk, for years about the scheme Dobrev, we are silent about making Bulgaria a feudal possession because everyone believes that nothing depends on it and because we fear for the bread, this fear will destroy us as a people. And the biggest threat to Bulgaria today is our silence. Therefore, I call: speak, write, protest, shout, seek your rights. There's someone behind you. If we don't start smashing this model of government from this parliament, we have no right to be in this room. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Yoncheva. On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB Mr. Dobrev. Here's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u13	Madam President, honourable Members! Mrs. Yoncheva, you're ridiculous. [[Shouting from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u14	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u15	In your diagram, which you have shown here, you have missed a very important person. This is President Rumen Radev. Did you know that I am more of a classmate with President Rumen Radev than with Deputy Mayor Milena Trendafilova? Because President Rumen Radev and I went to the same school in Haskovo, and Milena Trendafilova and I never went to the same school. [[Reply and applause from GERB.]] Did you know that I am more partner with President Rumen Radev than with Milena Trendafilova? You know what? In fact, I am no longer a partner, I am just as partner with President Rumen Radev as I am with Milena Trendafilova as I am with Evgeni Konsulov and as I am with all the others you have shown them on your scheme on this chart of yours. One more thing, I am a classmate with his Secretary General Dimitar Stoyanov. He and I went to the same school, we went to school together. We're connected, maybe I made them president, Secretary General and so on. [[Applause from GERB.]] I will tell you one more thing: in every ministry, in every agency in Sofia, in every state structure I have classmates because I studied at the Mathematical School and at the Language School in Haskovo, in every agency, in every ministry. I don't know these people, I know them as well as I know President Rumen Radev and his Secretary General Dimitar Stoyanov. Please fill in this schedule. In the ministries, in the agencies... Here, Danny Kirilov, and he's my classmate, you know, and don't miss him. Danny Kirilov is also my classmate from Haskovo, and President Rumen Radev, and Dimitar Stoyanov and so on. You know what I'm offering you? Let's take out of Haskovo Municipality's website all the companies that have won the renovation of the blocks in Haskovo. What's it gonna be? They're red. They're red! [[Noise, lines and applause from GERB.]] The company in question, which is third in sanitization in Haskovo, is with majority owner Velichko Minev, Red Colonel Velichko Minev. This same Velichko Minev was a mentor of the late [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Enough!"]] Dimcho Michalevski is the majority owner of the company. And not just him. We'll take out all the companies and you'll see that more than half of them have red genesis. Your MP, here he is, we know each other well enough. There's nothing wrong with that, is there, Mr. Dinkov? Your MP, the second on the list of BSP from Haskovo. Right, Mr. Dinkov? Am I right? [[Reply and applause from GERB.]] See, Mr. Dinkov doesn't deny it. You're really being ridiculous, Mrs. Yoncheva. Please, if you're going to show charts, write the President, Secretary General, Danny Kirilov, track down all the people who are from Haskovo and have studied at the Mathematical or Language School because it's not serious. After all, you're an investigative journalist. I can't be connected to just a dozen people, I've got a lot more contacts, I've influenced a lot more places. Perhaps I am also the reason that President Rumen Radev became President, his secretary Dimitar Stoyanov to become Secretary and so on. And I'll tell you one more thing: if you really want to see how the Sanitation Program is implemented, note that the procedures in Haskovo are at the lowest price. Do you know what procedure means at the lowest price? It means that the fight is fair, that whoever gives the lowest price will win. Did you know that the last auction that is currently being valued is for 11 blocks and for these 11 blocks there are 120 companies that have applied? 120 companies for 11 blocks! Why don't you take out the lowest prices for sanitization in the country? Do you know where they'll be? In Haskovo! In Haskovo! The last auction with the 11 blocs, which has 120 participating companies, will set a record at the lowest price and quality by red companies. As I explained to you, most of them are red. We're not saying anything. We want fair competition. That's it, we want fair competition. You're ridiculous, Mrs. Yoncheva. I tried to talk to some of the people in your diagram, for example to Deputy Mayor Milena Trendafilova, with whom I have never been a classmate, and I have been a classmate with President Rumen Radev, nor have I been a partner with her. I was just as partner with her as I was with Rumen Radev, and I told her to sue you because you've been waving her name around all week. She said, "I'm not suing Yoncheva because she actually complimented me. I'm proud to be associated with you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Here's the procedure. There's no personal explanation! Procedure. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Procedure, I said! Procedure! Procedure! [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u17	Madam President, the fact that you have to give the personal explanation is undeniable. There is no doubt about it, because he directly, under the rules, did so. It clearly says: "When it is personally and individually affected. " You can't help but give him the procedure. But my procedure wasn't about that. It was about Mr. Dobrev's very statement. This was obviously not a statement by a parliamentary group, and perhaps it came into a personal explanation. Why would I say that? Not so much why you split one procedure from the other, and did you have to separate it? In my opinion, this was not the appropriate procedure and it was not a declaration by a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u18	It was just on behalf of the parliamentary group because we are sitting behind what Mr. Dobrev said as a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u19	You can sit, but this is not the same procedure. You guys stay put, but it's a different procedure. Either way, Mr. Dobrev, I don't know if Elena Yoncheva has become a laughing stock, but you're a disgrace.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u20	The procedure is for me, Mr. Kutev. I'll take your word for it. The procedure is for me!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u21	What you need to do is be ashamed and be quiet. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u22	I'm giving him a personal explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u23	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! [[GERB lines]] . At the beginning of the election campaign on TV there was a debate between Elena Yoncheva and Delyan Dobrev. Then Mr. Delyan Dobrev mentioned my name that I sanitize in Haskovo. I wasn't starting to sanitize. I've got a win-win. However, the order dates back to September 2016. [[Heckling]] I'm not saying anything. I have a contract on December 20th. I wasn't a MP. I know companies in the region, I work with them very well because we are colleagues, I use their services and they use my services. [[Reply: "I" with the mayor!]] Mayor Belivanov, I don't know him at all. I want to tell you one fact: when we served wreaths on the monument in the center of Haskovo on the day of the Unification, he didn't even mention my name because he didn't know me. He's probably only seen me on the posters. Here's the important question: not who's best man, who's wife, who's bride's brother, right? [[Shouting.]] Because these relationships are your internal, and apparently harmony is broken.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u24	Mr. Dinkov, I expect to hear from you the personal explanation. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u25	It's about politics, because when something squeaks somewhere...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u26	And to Delyan Dobrev you have your personal explanation. Don't talk about it in general, talk about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u27	When a dream team squeaks, first, they change players when they don't change them, they change coach. [[The National Representative speaks with the microphone off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u28	Your time is up, Mr. Dinkov. Thank you. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. The first question is to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov. The question is from Tasco Ermenkov about the principles of personnel policy. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u29	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Cadre policy of every government is key for the country's successful development, its economy, its social policy, not least for environmental protection. On September 20th this year I heard you say: I do not run away from the problems of the portfolio ministries, even others. And you continue: From here, from the studio, I address absolutely all ministries, ministers, when someone puts pressure on you, come to me for appointments of people, of incompetents or of party activists. I guess it's about them coming to complain, not hiring them. You are very well aware of the fact that in the Forty-second National Assembly I was Chairman of the Temporary Commission, known as the Lady's Office, then together with representatives of today's coalition partners from the United Patriarchs, we identified the terrible practice of party and other inappropriate appointments, without competitions, of over 6,000 officials. We were hoping that this practice had ended, but your words are a cause for serious concern regarding today's personnel policy. In this regard, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, allow me to ask you: on what principles is your conduct based, as Deputy Prime Minister, as a director of staff policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please respond. You have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u31	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ermenkov! In relation to the question you have asked, I inform you of the following: under the current legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria, the appointments in ministries and state institutions for which you are interested, including the selection of staff, are of the exclusive competence of the appointing authority, namely the Minister, as an executive body for the separate ministry, the President of the State Agency or Commission and the Executive Director for the respective executive agency. This is explicitly provided for in the Law on Administration and, in particular, in the provisions of art. 42, para. Article 5; 47, para. 7th, Art. 50, para. Article 7 54, para. 7. As you know, the number of ministers is determined on a proposal from the Prime Minister, the National Assembly, as well as the composition of the Council of Ministers. The Deputy Prime Minister, as I am, is a central sole authority of the executive with special competence. I should emphasise that, unlike other colleagues of mine, deputy prime ministers who are both ministers and have the quality of a body of appointment, I cannot appoint to a ministry or any other structure to it. Although I have distribution functions as deputy prime minister to specific ministries and institutions, this does not make me the appointing authority in them. I can inform you of the principles of chamber policy in the political cabinet created by my direct submission in the Council of Ministers. It is an organisational structure with advisory, control information-analytic functions that assists the relevant executive bodies in defining and conducting government policy in the field of relevant powers, as well as in presenting it to the public. According to the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and its administration and the official timetable established on 16 May 2017 in my political cabinet are set out nine positions, of which a total of six are currently employed. There are three free funds. I'm saving a fund. The leading criteria in the selection of footage in my office are high professional qualities and competence. And that's it! The appointed employees have considerable experience in the public sector or in the area concerned, possess superiors, and some of them have several higher educations and qualifications for the posts held, and I also have qualified people with degrees. If you need further information about specific appointments, I would advise you to contact the competent ministers or other authorities of the state. What is unique about my office? What's unique is that there's not a single political assignment. In my office there is not a single member of the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria or any other party. In this regard, I believe that my cabinet is unique throughout the new 27-year history of democracy. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I know the trap will be in the line, so I'm thrilled to wait.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a line. I hope you live up to the Deputy Prime Minister's expectations.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u33	Sure. He knows. Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! That answer would have been adequate if I had asked him what criteria he was assigning people to him. I didn't ask for criteria or administrative relations. I've asked about politics. And as deputy prime minister in a political cabinet, I should be answered by him, of course, he was responding. I'll read some of the stuff. Mrs. Yoncheva read some of them that there are personnel problems in the government, they are placed in executive offices on purely party considerations, guerrilla considerations. People are placed to absorb some money, that is, you make a reasonable assumption about the existence of corruption practices. You give, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, and other examples in your speech then. Taking a guy with a pretty questionable biography and putting him in a city for head of RIEW. Here are some of the ministers subjected to such stupid, primitive processes, that is, one of the principles that you define in the personnel policy that is being conducted by the government are the primitive processes. And you even name the person responsible for this situation, and I quote: "The one who appointed them eventually, or the one who helped to appoint them. You have advised me to ask this before, and I will also ask the Prime Minister about this thing, as long as the President of the National Assembly allows me to get there. So from what I've said so far, I understand that the basic principles of appointments to ministries and institutions are political guerrilla, nepotism and corruption. And you identify another principle when you say that the principles of the distribution of power are being violated, namely that it is not respected according to your participation here how many MPs you are, how many political posts you will receive, i.e. to the nepotism, political guerrilla and corruption, the principle of distribution of the banitsa is added. Allow me to finish my line with your words. You have said it, but this time I address it to you: if you keep putting.. Kalinkas in all posts, we cannot expect any serious changes, and you have convinced us that you have come here to make changes useful for Bulgaria. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Their utility is already visible to every impartial Bulgarian, and I suppose you will soon have to keep an eye on what policy you conduct, and I know what you will answer in your jacket.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u34	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u35	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, your question is as follows: I ask you to answer the question of what principles are based by you in your capacity as Deputy Prime Minister of Staff policy regarding the ministries and institutions for which you are responsible. I have answered you clearly that question. I've given you a clear answer! If you are not satisfied, just ask a question to be answered in any way that you think you should be answered. But the point of this whole pointless discussion, I think, is just to make a political statement. You could have done it without driving me around! After all, I, unlike you, have some business to attend to. Or, if I may conclude, there is one such rule in journalism, one such principle: a pointless question, a pointless answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to questions to Deputy Minister of Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov. Question from the MPs Kolyo Milev and Vasil Antonov about the state of the food block in Military formation 28 880 "Belene." You're welcome to develop your question, gentlemen. Mr. Milev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence! In the past 2016, the Ministry of Defence through the then Directorate of Defense in August signed a contract for the repair of the food complex in Military Formation 28 880. Peeling. The repair is for the food block, for the kitchen complex, for storage and service rooms. The construction site was opened on 7 September last year and the deadline was 135 days, which was extended on the basis of the procedure and public procurement under the Law, and in this year the deadline had expired. At the moment the repair there is not finished, the waterproofing of the roof is also not finished, the first layer of waterproofing is placed, the second thermal insulation with fibran and then the rains started. The whole complex isn't being used right now. Our question to you is: what is the company with which the contract is concluded, what is the contract, what are the problems for the completion of the site and what measures will you take as Minister of Defence, together with the director of the renamed Directorate of Military Infrastructure (Military Infrastructure) for the completion of the site? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. For a response, the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order, Security and Minister for Defence. Mr. Karakachanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u39	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Gentlemen Milev and Antonov! On 19 August 2016 a construction contract No VI 0614 was concluded between the company for which you are asking The value of the contract you are interested in is 1 million. 498 thousand. BGN 370. 72 c. with VAT. The deadline for implementation of the site expired on 20 July 2017. At present, construction works are not being carried out due to financial difficulties by the same company. As a consequence, the Ministry of Defence sent a letter to the Company that the term of the Treaty expired on 20 July and after that date began charging a penalty of 001 per day of the value of the delay, excluding VAT, which is Section VII, i.e. 34 of the Treaty, that is, we have done it on the basis of the Treaty that has been concluded. In response, the company Pi H.I. stated in writing that the site is a priority for it and about 16 October 2017 will resume construction, after which the complete renovation will be completed as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Antonov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! The case is definitely scandalous for the engineering regiment in Belene, because in itself it shows how budget funds are spent without any result. But it is also very much Christomatien how no control is carried out from the moment the competition is won by the designated company until the procedure is completed. What you have introduced us to right now pleases us as much as the company's timeline and its capabilities paint us a picture. But the truth is what the result is today. For more than a year and a half we do not have a properly renovated food unit, there is no place to feed the employees in the unit and not just them, of course. There are also 24-hour shifts there. The result in terms of budget expenditure is very bad. You are personally one of the people who have always commented that the Ministry is short on funds, but here is the time to show with this case how they will develop in the future. We all expected you to strictly respect the period that has long since expired, but with the one you mentioned today, to be able to close the year and have a really completed task by the end of October. Once again, I would like to say that we will carefully monitor how the repairs will be completed and we will come back to this issue if what you have commented today is not fulfilled, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u43	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Antonov! You're right. Twenty-seven years of practice is such a practice not only in the Ministry of Defence. We all know that. There are no funds, but also those funds that are available are not used in the right way, and the effectiveness of them is to come on, not to use heavy words, reduced as efficiency. The specific contract is a welded position. As they say, I cannot comment on why it was concluded a year before I became a minister and why it was concluded with this particular firm, but I assure you one thing: this firm will not only pay its penalties, but will also do its job. Under the signed contract, it is better to approach them in this way than to start new procedures and spend new money on something that is ultimately the responsibility of this same firm to do it. A pass will not be here, nor will there be for all those cases we've identified such violations. Again, not only is there not enough money in the defence budget, but one part of that money is spent in a stupid, outrageous way that does not carry the necessary efficiency. So such questions from both of you and other colleagues follow questions in this topic, have always been useful not only for enlightening public opinion, but also to make it clear to all of both sides,.. those who have concluded contracts and concluded contracts, and those who will fulfill them that they will not be missed when they are not correct to the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We move on to the next issue by the MP Konstantin Veselinov Popov regarding the state of the trade companies of the Ministry of Defence with the principal Minister of Defence. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u45	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence. Honourable Members, under the Rules of Procedure for the exercise of the rights of the state in commercial companies with state participation in capital established by the Decree of the Council of Ministers of 2003, the Minister of Defence is the principal of the commercial companies in the Ministry of Defence. On 23 June this year, on a question of MPs from GERB's parliamentary group concerning contracts concluded by the commercial companies of the Ministry of Defence with legal entities, you made a very serious analysis, a 19-page report with a detailed report on the activities of companies and an assessment of the financial results at the end of May 2017. As a result of the contracts concluded by the newly appointed management of companies by the caretaker government, you concluded that they did not aim to stabilise their financial situation. My question is: what measures have you taken to stabilise and strengthen the trade companies of the Ministry of Defence after the weaknesses identified by September, and is there a change in the financial situation of the companies?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u46	Thank you, Mr. Popov. For an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Karakachanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u47	Mr. Popov, ladies and gentlemen! In response to your question, I provide the following data on the financial situation with the principal Minister of Defence on 20 September 2017. On 29 September 2017, the activities of the group "Terem" was organized in order to implement a business programme for the period 2017 - 2019. In the third quarter of 2017, the workload of enterprises and staff involved was significantly increased. The financial result of the group for the third quarter, namely between 1 July and 20 September, is a profit of 2 million. Two hundred and twenty-one On 20 September 2017, the consolidated profit of the group "Terem" amounted to 1 million. 807 thousand. lv. As of September 20, 2017, the company "Terem" did not have any outstanding obligations towards the staff. Second, "Intendant Service" EAD "Sofia City." For the third quarter of 2017, the company reported a decrease in profit by 127 thousand. lv. The company works mainly on signed contracts with the Ministry of Defence, awarded according to the order of art. 14, para. 1, t. 5 of the Public Procurement Act with secondary officers with budget and structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence. It is expected for the accounting financial year 2017, the implementation of the same will lead to an improvement in the financial situation of the company. "Supplied and traded" Ltd. "Sofia" of the Ministry of Defence. For the third quarter of 2017, the company reported a profit of 24 thousand. lv. The same is significantly reduced compared to the previous quarters, I apologize, reporting a loss of 24 thousand. lv. In the previous quarters of 2017, a loss of 109 thousand respectively. lv. for the first quarter of 2017 and 97 thousand. lv. for the second quarter. The company's activities are organised in the direction of the implementation of a 2017 Plan-programme established by me. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. "Armstroyinvest" Ltd. "Sofia." For the third quarter of 2017, the company reported a loss of 36 thousand. BGN, the same decreased from a loss reported from the previous quarter of 2017, which amounted to 57 thousand. lv. As of 31 December 2017, the company is expected to make more revenue, given the completion of separate stages of existing contracts and to reduce accumulated losses. "Sofia" Ltd. For the third quarter of 2017, the company reported a loss reduction compared to the previous quarter by 50 thousand. lv. "MOBA" EOOD. For the third quarter of 2017, the company reported a loss of 20 thousand. lv. The same loss was significantly reduced compared to the previous quarter of 2017, respectively losses of 213 for the first and 300 for the second quarter. In view of the negative financial result, the accumulated debts and the increase of the minimum wage in the country are planned actions to establish a working group of experts in the Ministry of Defence to assess the situation and to continue the recovery of the company. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In the third quarter, the loss was 47 thousand. BGN, although it is a loss, a decrease from previous quarters is reported. Accordingly, for the first quarter of 2017 it is 67 thousand and for the first quarter it is 111 thousand. lv. loss of that same firm. Time's running out. It's really a big reference. I'll be able to finish it using my right to the back of the bed if you give me this opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Popov, should we go straight ahead without making a line? Is that what you're suggesting, or are you gonna make some kind of line?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u49	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, colleagues! Of course, we will listen to the Deputy Prime Minister to see what the results of the other companies really are. I think my question is correct enough, and thank you for the correct answer, but we have to admit that there will be such questions in the future. This is extremely important, given the fact that we have a modernization of the Bulgarian army. There are projects for investment costs. We hope that the project for investment expenditure of Land Forces will also enter parliament and be voted on. These projects relate to the companies you run, to the companies you run, because investment costs projects are also related to industrial cooperation. I sincerely hope, and the results in "Terem" are good, that companies, especially "Terem" will develop positively. This will give us a breath of air, if there is good management, good investment in the future, will ease and give us a chance to participate in industrial cooperation in the realization of investment costs projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u50	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u51	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Popov. I'm moving on. The companies were 11, I had reached the seventh. DCC St. George the Victorious and the Burgas. For the third quarter, the company reported a profit of 16 thousand. lv. It develops well, develops sustainablely, achieving positive financial results. DCC "St. George" "Haskovo." For the third quarter, the company reported a loss of 11 thousand. BGN, which is increased compared to the loss of the previous quarters. With regard to the relationship between DCC St. George with the Hospital of Hygie, I literally had a question last week that I was answering. I'm not gonna go into the details, repeat the numbers to save time. On 20 September 2017, the village of Narechenski Bani realized a positive financial result of 2 thousand. BGN, until 30 June 2017, the financial result of the company is a loss of 104 thousand. lv. On September 20th this year, VITA Ltd. realized a positive financial result of 147 thousand. lv. The company works well and realizes positive financial results. The Ministry of Defence is doing everything it can to ensure the work of the companies. You are very right about the modernization projects that are provided, it is very important, specifically you mentioned................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. This was the last question to Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov. We move on to the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev with a question from the MPs Anton Kutev and Ivan Ivanov on the policy of the Ministry of Interior for the fight against crime. Here you are, Mr. Kutev. Three minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u53	Mr. Radev, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Radev, about three months ago, we met here on a matter of my own regarding domestic crime, and you gave us very detailed details of the events that the Ministry of Interior took to combat domestic crime. My reaction was that these things are judged by the results. Now, three months later, I have no sense that the results have changed. Even less this feeling has the citizens of Bulgaria, judging by all the research done in the meantime. The fact is that the assessment of the Eurobarometer from 2017 is that the trust in the police Bulgaria is the country with the lowest confidence in the police.. 43%, as compared to 75% of Bulgarians believe in the European Union. That is, almost twice as much believe in the police, although police are traditionally the institution in which they trust. Because there's every possibility of that. For me, the huge problem continues to be in civil security, in the security of citizens. We continue to see problems with the impostors who generally do not understand how many years can continue to be a problem for the police! If the police can't trace some phone calls, I don't know if it makes sense to exist like this. If the impostors can't handle it, I don't know what we're doing for the other?! And we're actually making it worse and worse. One of the questions I hope you will answer is: how many cars are stolen and how many of them are there? Because if you want to convince me that the satellite system can't track where every stolen car went, I won't believe you. I know there's enough technology to do it, the police to do it! And in this case, you are responsible for it. Is there a vehicle that can't be traced? Please tell me technically. Domestic crime has many more dimensions: they steal from people's basements. That's the big problem at all, but there are other problems. Because according to Eurostat data for 2015, Bulgaria is ranked fifth among the member states with the most killings after the Baltic republics, but since then these data have increased and the killings have multiplied. All summer, we've been hearing about one murder after another that happened literally every few days. In addition to the killings, on July 7th this summer the robbery of a gas station in broad daylight in Sofia; on July 25th the gas station, again in Sofia on Blvd. On September 26, the robbery of the OMV gas station. Yesterday, September 27th - armed robbery of an incasso car in Sofia. These are all terrible crimes. We are not talking about corruption, which is actually the main conversation that we need to have in this case. All of this against the backdrop of your obvious contradictions with police officers and daily protests! In this regard, the question we ask, our question is: what are the policies of the Ministry and of the State for the fight against crime, and what do you personally intend to do about these issues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. For an answer, Mr. Radev, the Minister of Interior. Please, you have five minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, Mr. Ivanov! The policy on countering and prevention of conventional crime has been taken as a priority in the Programme for the Management of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021. The aim is to improve the interaction between the Ministry of Interior and the local authorities and other responsible institutions, as well as to strengthen cooperation with private security companies and citizens. You are right that I listed you last time in my reply some actions, now I will continue to take concrete measures in several directions. Firstly, objective prerequisites for optimising the regulatory and regulatory base are created. Recently, a bill on private security activities and a bill on amendment and supplement to the Ministry of Interior Act was adopted in the first vote in plenary. Secondly, in order to improve the organisation of work to improve efficiency in the fight against domestic crime, the Ministry has established rules and a plan to counter conventional crime in settlements where there is no police presence. A permanent team has also been created to ensure coordination, control and interaction between police structures in the country, things that are somehow behind and are not noticed. Thirdly, significant improvement in personnel and material resources. At present, the government and the Ministry have fulfilled their commitment and have already appointed over 1020 uniformed police officers. It focuses on the professional training of police officers. The process of equipment of police structures with cars for the needs of Security and Road Police continues. Soon 278 new vehicles were put into operation, equipped with an integrated video surveillance system. As a result of this targeted activity of the Ministry, in 2017 there was a decline in crime levels and an increase in disclosure rates. Here are some numbers: from January to August this year compared to the same period of 2016 the total crime has decreased by 4.1%; the level of detection has increased by just over 6% or in absolute values the registered crimes are 70 730 compared to 73 727 in 2016; the solved crimes are 30 thousand compared to 26 527 for the same period. There was an increase of approximately 8% of the detection rate in the attempted murders. And an interesting statistic was crossed in 2017 by the negative trend in violations, what you asked about, against motor vehicles. Registered crimes have decreased by 31% and, at the same time, the clearance rate has increased by little, but stable by about 5%. Following the history of criminal activity with abductions over the past decade, it can be concluded that by 2009, some of the most serious crimes have seen a tendency to increase kidnappings for ransom purposes. By 2009, 2007 "Three, 2008 " ==References====External links==*Seven, 2009. .. 11........ 11............................ 11. Then they plummet. For the purpose of revealing and crossing the activities of the Naughty, so famous, a special team has been formed at the General Directorate of Organized Crime. The success achieved with the criminal group, which has committed severe attacks against the individual, has a strong deterrent effect on other entities that have done similar activities. In practice, since the second half of 2013, no ransom abductions have been carried out. The Ministry continues its work with full capacity to detect the current kidnapping in August 2017. Of course, we are working on all those crimes that you referred to in your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u56	Thank you, dear Minister of the Interior. Two supplementary questions, Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u57	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I expected, indeed, more serious information from your exhibition, which would give comfort to both us and the Bulgarian citizens, because our question, believe us, was dictated precisely by the discontent of many of the particularly small settlements about the actions of the Ministry's employees and rather not by their actions, but rather by the lack of organization of such actions. Unfortunately, in your presentation we have heard some explanations for one, rather I and my colleagues consider it a lobbying law, such as the Private Security Act. We didn't hear any basic elements of your election program except that police officers were assigned. To this day, we have not learned where these people will be, with what profile these people will be in the Ministry of Interior system, how they will contribute to the detection and reduction of crimes. We didn't hear an answer, and you promised to give how the inspection for the purchased cars was over, because there were doubts about how to buy, whether they were usable and so on. You hinted at them in your response, but they are extremely important, about fighting the war on the road. Statistics you have read to us, but these statistics can be read like the gospel devil, but I want you to answer two additional questions, of course, which are very important and part of the overall picture of crime in Bulgaria. Yesterday, the parliamentary committee, which oversees the relevant anti-smuggling agencies, had one of these, provided data on some great abuses in terms of fuel, smuggling. For this thing, what measures are you taking? Is this thing true, isn't it? And most of all, the fight against corruption, which in the National Security Report last year, just like that, the measures most likely identified by your ministry are described in three lines literally. Indeed, as a problem are described as one of the most important elements in the common criminogenic state of the country, and no measures we have seen, even in this Report, so if you could just give us a few words on this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer to the two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u59	Thank you, Madam President. I read you numbers, really dry statistics, but I stuck to the minutes that were set for me. Thank you for your question in general. Whenever there is talk about crime, about the work of the Ministry of Interior, I am obliged to explain what we do and society must hear all points of view and finally get to the truth as far as possible to get to it in depth. She's always subjective. We say one thing, you're the opposition, maybe you find other things. I'm listening carefully and taking a note and I'll even quote you. Mr. Kutev said he had a feeling. Yeah, there's a feeling, and that's why I'm trying to answer as much as possible, and with statistics that aren't always the best, but that's the kind of statistic we have, it's registered, and I'm showing it. That's not the truth. This may be the feeling, and if we talk to these topics... and radios and televisions, and the media repeat it, perhaps there will be such a feeling. And not only there, but also in the citizens, but the numbers show otherwise. As accurate as they may not be, however only registered, including, of course, this information that we give in Eurostat, which you just quoted from another source, Mr. Kutev, here, I'm showing you this graph. [[shows chart sheet]] . Once I've shown it, now it's a sequel to 2017. These are deliberate murders finished. Look at them fall. In 2017 almost touched the curves, almost everything was revealed. The 70th and 68th have been discovered. And, see, they were once in the peak, here on the left, your left, in 1991. See where the peak is at the beginning. Gradually it falls, gradually and now we are here in 2016 - 2017: 79 - 67 in 2016, 70 - 68 in 2017. This is the truth about crimes, if we summarize and perhaps some of the worst crimes we show on the chart. I can show you other things. It's information. We have such a directorate, which is called "Analysis" where these things are done, gathering information constantly and showing themselves. I show everything, not just where we have success. Here's another schedule. These are injured persons over 40 years of age. On the left are thefts, on the right are the robberies. Yes, the thefts have increased from 8215 to 9042 for the same period last year, but the serious crimes are slightly downwards where there is damage to the human body and so on. We can see all that. I've told you other stats about fornication, about rape. We're up 20% this year. We're doing the impossible to see why it's happening there. This is the general picture, so the feeling is one thing, the statistics and the numbers are another. And let's be as close to the truth as possible. You mention your contradictions with the employees. I have no conflict with any employees, if you mean trade unions, Mr. Kutev, I'm trying to answer in a row before I get to the two questions. We don't have any contradictions. The only contradiction is when and how to do it, and it is not a contradiction, but a dispute when to raise employees' salaries, how will this happen, how much, if this is a contradiction. Fight against corruption, of course, that at the heart and one of the important goals that the Ministry sets itself and is obliged to do so, and mainly the Directorate-General for Organized Crime is fighting corruption. There, now the numbers I wasn't prepared for your question, because now you're asking me, I can't tell you, but we recently delivered fuel data, cigarettes. You heard the 7% are down, 7% are down! And that's what we say, then it's the companies that count the boxes of cigarettes. It's the same with fuels. It's the same with human trafficking and so on. I can't tell you anywhere where there's success. I'm saying that this fight we're fighting all the time and we're giving her the maximum we can with these resources. And I say again that this is the same thing with drugs and fuel and other goods and cargo that are risky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u60	Thank you, dear Minister. For your response please come in, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u61	Dear Minister, in order to make this conversation a little bitter, I would say that these data you give me for the killings do not compare them to 1991, because then Boyko Borisov was the boss of It's called, at least it's incorrect. Maybe they're down.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u62	Mr. Kutev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u63	But, anyway, at the moment we have this fact, we have the fact that we are one of the countries with the most killings in Europe. That's the fact, and it's Eurostat's, not mine. Regarding registered crimes, you know very well that most of the crimes in Bulgaria simply do not register because we have extremely low confidence in the police and that is why they do not register, so this statistic is something that I deeply do not believe in. I believe more in what I see with my own eyes. And, by the way, you're obviously not familiar with it, because you're telling me about smuggling is slowing down. Yesterday, the executive director of the oil and gas association in the Commission had a firm, clear claim that 30% of the fuels are not charged, 1 billion since 2015 is the amount that does not come from excise fuel in the country. This was spoken to a parliamentary committee yesterday. There was talk of a heavy political umbrella on some of the fuels. A heavy political umbrella! These are terms that the industry uses. That business that's legit. There were the people who were actually his official representatives. I mean, it's not about any questionable sources, as long as it's the business that does it. That's the situation. And I'm bringing you back to this again, Boyko Borisov in 2009 came with the idea that I would change the state. That's why they chose him. You don't have time. The mandates are very short, very short is the time for which all this must be done. You don't have time to do this. It is your responsibility, and that you have now become a new minister, first of all, it is no longer so soon. Secondly, the truth is that you bear, as I bear the entire legacy of BSP, you bear the entire inheritance of GERB and personally Borisov. That's why we're waiting for him from you. This was the thing with which he stood in power all the time.. the fight against corruption, against crime, with the new morality. We can't see anything like that from what I've seen here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. The next question is from the National Representative Diana Savateva on the level of crime in the maritime municipalities. Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u65	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The success of a tourist season depends on many factors, but undoubtedly one of the most important is guaranteeing security, both for the millions of tourists who come to the country and for the thousands of people who work on the resorts. All of us who live along the coast are aware of the complexity of the task of the Ministry of Interior and of the authorities on the ground, to make such an organization of effective security in some places that live in the same rhythm in winter, and in summer the pace increases repeatedly. It is about the entire Black Sea coast from Shabla to Rezovo, if we must illustratively express ourselves. It is really difficult and complicated because the clustering of so many people in places that are deserted in winter, and in summer they become big resorts, even megapolises, requires a very serious organization and together requires a proper distribution of resources by people, because the sea attracts not only tourists but also attracts a great criminal contingent. There were crimes this year. Some of them continue to comment yet. There have also been declared an international search for people who have been detained and, accordingly, extradition or execution of a European Arrest Warrant, which simply confirms how complicated the Ministry of Interior is working. In this plan is also my question: Minister, what is the criminal picture in season 2017? What does the comparison of past years show? What trends stand out, and therefore what measures should be taken to ensure greater security in the coming seasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u66	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Sawateva! The confirmation of Bulgaria as a high-end tourist destination, suggesting complex opportunities for practicing year-round tourism, is among the main priorities in the government management program. Due to the redirection to our country of tourists from neighbouring destinations, forecasts of growth in the number of tourists during the summer season were realized. This in turn increased the workload and responsibility of the employees of the Ministry of Interior. During the active summer tourist season of June this year in the territory of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, Burgas will mention the three main areas, a total of 3137 crimes were registered, compared to 3798 in the same period of 2016, which is approximately 17% decrease in registered crime and 16% decrease compared to 2015, if compared to it. 725 of the crimes registered in the period, or 23% detection rate, have been revealed. For the same period, what is the ratio in Varna? I don't want to mention all the numbers. I've prepared a separate reference for you. A decrease of 1,5% of registered crime and 9% compared to 2015. I mention 2015 to see the trend as well. About 30% is an increase in the detection of these crimes in the Varna Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. A total of 751 crimes were reported on Dobrich's territory. I'll tell you the rates of 7.9% registered crime has decreased, and 12% to see the 2015 trend again. Based on this analysis of the operational situation, a plan has been developed for the activities of the Ministry of Interior for Public Order Protection, Countering Crime, ensuring fire safety, including in the resort complexes and tourist areas during the summer and winter tourist season 2017 - 2018, as you ask. Additional police forces from the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, whose territories are the resort complexes and tourist areas, are posted to protect public order and counter crime. You know our meeting in Burgas, including I went there. Joint police forces have been formed with officials from other European countries - Romania, the Czech Republic, Poland, too. In view of the safety of foreign tourists, we have a very good interaction. Interdepartmental coordination centers are established in cooperation with the National Revenue Agency and the Customs Agency, which conduct joint checks on drinking facilities, amusement clubs, commercial sites. Control on compliance with fiscal discipline, countering tax crimes, smuggling and control of the movement of risk goods and goods, establishing unregulated incomes and cash flows from criminal activity is being carried out. An organization has been established to improve the coordination and interaction of the Ministry of Interior with the local authorities. Joint checks have been carried out regularly throughout the summer season at the tourist sites on the territory of the National Revenue Agency and other ministries of the economy, finance, tourism, health, regional development and public works and other administrations in the country, for more effective action and for the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u68	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Mrs. Sawateva for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u69	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I hope to get the written reference after that, because it is difficult to always navigate in numbers and percentages. The fact that the analysis is basically already done, I consider it a good attestation mostly because the Ministry of Interior has a sufficiently stable base on which it needs to do more in-depth analysis and prepare for the next season. Perhaps some of their people find it strange that we are talking about next season, but I share the opinion of this part of the business, which is convinced that an analysis is done immediately after the season, and the preparation for the next one starts at the end of October and ends at the latest by the end of April. And in the coming months, work is being done and, of course, the calmness of both business and tourists with a more discreet police presence is guaranteed. Perhaps the upcoming analysis will also include an assessment of how effective the posting is. That is, this model of security, which is linked to the posting of employees. I mean not only the security police, but also the separate forensics teams. I think that in recent years, this model has produced positive results because, for example, people who know about pickpocketing, robbery, or drug trafficking, when working by the sea, are closer to the contingent. When we talk about summer, we cannot, in any case, skip the theme of Sunny Beach, because most often this resort is mentioned when it comes to crime. I think that this year there were no serious visible clashes, because the Sun's coast is complex not only because of the crowding of people, but also because of the many conflicting interests. I hope the prevention in this direction is also successful next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u70	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House. Dear Mrs. Sawateva, I have prepared the reports and will give them to you. Thank you for asking questions right now. Let me just mention and repeat that the preparation has long since begun even for the winter period, and for the summer we are making reports and analysis that you mentioned. Let me just add that we are doing this with the ambassadors of the countries who are interested in what is happening on our Black Sea coast. December, there will also be a meeting with the ambassadors, me or one of my deputies, to tell them what we have done so far and what they can expect in the future. It's a very important question. I just marked it for the colleagues who help us from the countries I mentioned. They come here, they help us, and in two directions, they not only help us, they help their own citizens too. We are very careful where the boundaries of interaction with citizens are. When they break, we are, of course, strict, we respect the law, but when they have any rights, the people who are here who are from the Czech Republic, Romania and other countries and help us, their police officers are literally working together with ours, so they are helping in both directions for the interests of their citizens, and in their language, which is very important and very important. I have information that I also pass on to you that working with them is very successful. Of course, the financial resources we spend on this, we are careful to keep them limited, but where necessary, and where you mentioned them, they are present. I will give you a reference to the leading areas for management of the maritime municipalities of Nessebar, Golden Sands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u72	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the third final question to the Minister of Interior. He is from Tsvetan Topchiev regarding the state of police presence in the settlements in the municipality of Bregovo. Here you go, Mr. Topchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u73	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, the municipality of Bregovo is located in the northwest corner of Bulgaria, it is a border municipality. To the west it borders the Republic of Serbia, to the north with the Republic of Romania. On the territory of the municipality of Bregovo are located nine settlements and one municipal center. In the population, mostly elderly people live, with a large percentage of them living alone. Located at the poorest end of the country, it is normal and you probably know that unemployment in the municipality is quite a high percentage above the average in the country. In the municipal center and in some settlements live compact Roma communities that have a tendency to counter-action. Against the background of all this, there is no one in the territory of the municipality of Bregovo, I repeat, there is no constant police presence, especially in the dark part of the day. My question to you, Minister, is: do you believe that the numerical composition of the police station in the town of Bregovo is sufficient to ensure a permanent police presence in all the towns of the municipality? What measures will the Ministry of Interior take to secure additional police teams in the municipality of Bregovo? I await your answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Topchiev. Mr. Minister, three minutes to answer, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Topchiev! Bregovo division in the area of the management Vidin at the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Vidin, serves the town of Bregovo, the municipal center, and as you mentioned, nine villages, as follows: Rakititsa, Kosovo, Delena, Tiyanovtsi, Kalina, Balley, Kudelin, Vow and Gumzo. The population of the municipality is 4,800 people, of which about 2000 live in the municipality center Bregovo. Currently, the state of Bregovo precinct consists of six stats, of which one head of police station, one operative, one police inspector and three junior inspectors. The place for a police inspector has been vacant since April 2017. One of the employees of a junior police inspector is a permanent resident on the territory of the police station in the town of Bregovo. Two service vehicles with signmarks have been assigned to the area of Bregovo. A schedule for admission of citizens by a police inspector and a junior police inspector has also been prepared in Bregovo, providing one in each of the settlements according to the legal documents. The employees of the department are changed by providing police presence in both the bright and the dark part of the day. Specialized police operations to counter domestic crime are conducted in all small settlements in the municipality of Bregovo. Police officers are constantly running rounds. Regular meetings with mayors on the ground are also held. A 24-hour immediate response organisation has been established for an alert at each locality in the municipality of Bregovo. As a result of the so-defined allocation of forces and funds, the necessary police presence is ensured in our view to countering common crimes and ensuring good public order. For the period from 1 January to 30 June 2017, the operational situation on the territory of the municipality of Bregovo is as follows: 22 registered crimes of a general nature, 12 of which are the forms of applicant materials and pre-trial proceedings against a known perpetrator, 5 of them have been terminated and 5 of the pre-trial proceedings have been initiated against an unknown perpetrator. Based on the active work that I mentioned, good preventive activity and rapid response to signals received by the employees serving the area, and on redirected teams from the District Department of Vidin, since the beginning of 2017 no serious criminal offences have been reported on the territory of the Bregovo district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u76	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Topchiev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u77	Dear Minister, the people of the municipality of Bregovo will not be pleased with your response. That's a dry statistic we all know. For your information, during the bad management of the three coalition 2005 "2009" in the police station of Bregovo, there are currently 5 employees. They can't provide a normal police presence. There's a police presence until 24:00, no police presence after 24:00. As an example, I can give you a recent case made public in the media: a citizen of the municipality had to break the law to protect his property and business. All the residents of the municipality were in his favor. Make sure that this situation improves, because it does not improve, but worse will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Topchiev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Topchiev, you are the MP, you can speak politically, I will refrain. After all, I'm with the executive, and I'm here to report and literally test me for what we do. But you're wrong about saying something like that. How do I put this? People won't understand us in Bregovo, you say. It's a dry statistic. If they don't understand us, I don't understand them either. Either there are signals and we react to them, or there are no signals and they remain misunderstood. Through you I ask them, and you tell them, the only way to help them is to declare some crime or whatever happened. There's no other way. If they don't trust the Ministry of Interior, they don't trust the institutions, all of you, and me included, we're all to blame and let's work on it. But I ask them to be good to register. We register, we react, we repair. It's about statistics, please. I just showed you a schedule. I didn't mention who was in power when there were many more crimes. Including Bregovo, when there were 12, and now they're halfway there. This was done because there were more crimes in another government then. I wouldn't want to get into political conversations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u80	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you to the Minister of Interior Mr. Valentin Radev. We move on to questions to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova. The first question is from MP Krum Zarkov about the electricity problem in the town of Glodzhevo, municipality of Vetovo. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, for many years now in the town of Glodzhevo, the municipality of Vetovo, there is a power problem. In the recent past, the settlement was part of the territory of the former Razgrad district. In fact, the town of Glodzhevo is only 35 km from Razgrad. Accordingly, the power grid and support was to At present the town of Glodzhevo is part of the municipality of Vetovo, which is in the district of Ruse. I mention this because it is one of the reasons the population points out to explain the fact that in the locality almost daily the current breaks indefinitely. The so-called electric shocks caused damage to the electrical appliances in households by the population. They stop the operation of commercial facilities and manufacturing enterprises and disrupt the rhythm of the educational process in kindergarten and the school in the city. Therefore, Madam Minister, I ask you to answer me: what is the reason for the frequent interruptions of electricity supply and what measures will you take for the normal supply of electricity to the more than 3500 residents of Glodzhevo city? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. The Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova has the floor for an answer. Here you are, Mrs. Petkova, three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u83	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Zarkov! The city of Glodzhevo is powered by the air mains Senovo from substation Razgrad and the Glodzhevo air mains from the Senovo Node Station. The electricity distribution network in that area is owned by the electricity distribution company "ENERGO-PRO Networks." In this respect, an opinion was requested for the purpose of this reply from the relevant electricity distribution company. By letter dated 8 September 2017, the Commission informed the Member States that it had decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. A large number of automatic transmissions, so-called blinks, were recorded in 2015 and the reasons for which in general are related to degraded insulation, old type of insulations, grown branches near the electricity lines and poor weather conditions. In this regard, in 2016, the company "ENERGO-PRO Networks" invested funds and performed rehabilitation of the Cenovo air pipeline. They've been replaced by 16,000 electrical conduits. BGN, with the registered automatic re-entrys decreased by nearly 40%. The company is currently repairing the Glodzhevo air pipeline. The insulation of the electricity line will be replaced and the value of the invested funds will be approximately 50 thousand. lv. In this year, additional investments of 92 thousand are envisaged. lv. for Senovo Node Station, which makes the connection between the two power lines. In this regard, regarding the information that we requested from "ENERGO-PRO Networks" with my order is an on-site inspection, which I assume will have concrete results within the next two weeks and will inform you of what the Ministry of Energy control authorities have established. If we find violations or discrepancies, we will accordingly give prescriptions so that very quick action is taken to remove these damage and practically people in this region feel comfortable. I will have an obligation to inform you of the results of this inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u84	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Zarkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! I thank you for the serious treatment that you have obviously also shown for the verification that has been carried out. I and my fellow Members I suppose from all the parliamentary groups that we have been elected by Ruse District we will continue to monitor the issue. I hope you will also do the same, but it is very important that people are actually informed about what is happening and what to expect Thank you. We'll follow the question and you can count on our support if there's anything we can do to help. It is important for us to resolve the matter as quickly as possible, as we all imagine how unpleasant it is and how sensitive it is to cut the current for a certain period of time in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. For the doppelganger? You don't have an asshole, Madam Secretary. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov on the release of work premises located in the building of the Ministry of Environment and Waters in Sofia, Blvd. "Princess Maria Luisa" 22, occupied by the National Geological Fund. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u87	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The issue is quite important and I would say strategic for Bulgaria. That's why I took the liberty of asking because we're very worried. It is not my job to explain to you what the National Geological Fund is, you know it better than I do, but just to mark the actuality of the matter, I will allow myself to point out some of its most important characteristics showing its exclusivity and invaluableness. First of all, it has records of very serious geological, engineering and hydrogeological research not only in Bulgaria, but also in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Ghana, Libya, Syria and many other countries, mainly from the Arabian Peninsula and Africa, research that is of living interest, not to say anything more about foreign companies in this area. These studies include the construction of land crusts, landslides, tectonic forms, seismics, minerals by species, stock, volume and exploration of fields, construction of all kinds of technical and road equipment, underground and above ground construction, hydrogeological research related to the search and exploration of underground water resources, etc. As you rightly pointed out in your letter to the Ministry of Environment and Water, the National Geological Fund is essentially not an archive, but an up-to-date informational array of national importance that is constantly being used, complemented and updated. In addition, it generates annual revenue in the Republican budget, with this revenue being 300 thousand for 2016. lv. This priceless documentation is currently stored in the MoEW building on Blvd. The Princess Maria Luisa No 22 and, at the request of the Minister of Environment and Water, must be moved. In your letter to the Ministry of Environment and Water, you write: "In view of the huge volume of documentation, we believe that the possible relocation of these arrays of information can lead to loss and damage to information, and will also require large financial and organisational costs. The move will result in lasting negative consequences for the organization, storage and provision of geological information. In this regard, Madam Minister, I ask you: what measures have you taken to prevent looting, misuse and to ensure the proper functioning of the National Geological Fund?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Mrs. Petkova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, the question you are asking is really very important and very relevant. I'd like to apologize in advance, maybe go a little out of time...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u90	I'll let you speak, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u91	...but the question is really important and it starts from a long time ago. So I'm going to try to make a brief chronology. First of all, according to art. 7, para. 2, p. 3 of the Law on Underground Treasures, the Minister of Energy manages the National Geological Fund. It stores, as you said, documentation and material from geological research in the search and study of underground riches in the Republic of Bulgaria. The material is stored in the National Stock Storage warehouse located in the district of Iliantsi. The geological documentation is stored in premises located in the building of the Ministry of Environment and Water of Blvd. "Princess Maria Luisa " No 22. The building on Blvd. The Princess Maria Luisa No 22 was built in 1948 and the National Geological Fund has been housed there ever since. From 1948 to 1997 the Committee on Geology and Mineral Resources, then the National Geologic Service of Bulgaria, was housed there. In 1997, the functions of the Committee on Geology and Mineral Resources were transferred to the Ministry of Environment and Water in the same building, and the National Geological Fund was transferred to the Directorate of Geology and Mineral Resources and Balance of Stocks. Following the amendment to the Law on Underground Treasures in 2010 and the formation of a single body for underground wealth management, the Directorate of Land Undergrounds and Balances of Stocks is being closed and the employees are transferred to the then existing Department of Natural Resources and.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In reality, only employees change physical jobs from the building to Blvd. "Princess Maria Luisa" 22 in the building on 22nd Street. "Triaditsa" No 8, but the documentation to the National Geological Fund remains for storage and use in the building of the Ministry of Environment and Water. At that time, the Directorate of Natural Resources and the Delegations to the Ministry of Economy and Energy and Tourism did not have adequate premises to transfer all the documentation from the National Geological Fund. Following the transformation in 2013 of the Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism in the Ministry of Economy and Energy and subsequently in 2014 following the division of the Ministry of Economy and Energy in the Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism into three separate departments, the National Geological Fund continued to be housed in the Ministry of Environment and Water due to lack of suitable space. As is known, in order to continue the physical existence of available documents, it is necessary to store at controlled temperatures, relative humidity, level of light impact. Fire alarm and security systems are also needed. Here, I would like to add that the National Geological Fund is essentially not an archive, as Mr. Ermenkov quotes our letter to the Ministry of Environment and Water, but is an up-to-date informational array of national importance, which is constantly being used, supplemented and updated. It contains information about the underground riches of Bulgaria collected for almost 100 years. The National Geological Fund contains more than 326 thousand. geologic data media units, paper reports, paper cards, magnetic seismic data tapes, magnetic discs, optical CDs, natural geologic data media. A letter was received from the Ministry of Environment and Water on 3 August 2017 requesting the release of the premises in which the National Geological Fund was housed with a view to the need to use this base for other purposes of the Ministry of Environment and Water. On 25 August 2017, by our letter, the Ministry of Energy informed the Ministry of Environment and Water that it is currently not possible to proceed with the release of the premises due to the lack of an appropriate place for the deployment of the information array, but in the shortest possible time the Ministry will try to resolve the problem of acquiring a building and premises for the needs of the National Geological Fund. On the same date, a letter was sent to the district governor of Sofia on 25 August 2017, requesting free provision of the Ministry of Energy to a building for the needs of the National Geological Fund. The Ministry is in continuous dialogue with colleagues from the regional government. We expect their response and take appropriate action to ensure an appropriate building with appropriate conditions to ensure the proper storage of this priceless information. After determining a specific and appropriate building for the needs of the National Geological Fund, the setting of premises and their special equipment, according to the regulatory requirements, will proceed to the relocation of the documentation. After the actual relocation, a re-energisation will also be carried out in order to verify it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Ermenkov, I take this opportunity to assure you that the Ministry of Energy and colleagues of the Ministry of Environment and Water clearly understand what this is about, that this is not just an archive, but a national wealth, which we all need to take care of, because this is priceless information that not only uses us, it is used daily by various companies that are interested in both students and people who use this information for scientific purposes. We will all work for this information to be stored in the best possible way, under the best conditions, and all risks of its possible damage to be eliminated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u92	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Ermenkov for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u93	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm partly satisfied with the answer, not entirely, and I would like to tell you that I would probably ask the question, perhaps in a slightly more distant future, if the geologist guild wasn't worried about the news that there was some idea that this fund would move to Minno-Geological University. I would therefore like to ask if you are aware that the Member of the Committee on the Transfer of the Fund. Stefcho Stoinev is the manager of a company with activities related to the information in the fund, a company that wins all public procurement contracts at the University of Minno-Geology. He's the same associate professor, if not all of them, at least a lot of the labs at the university. Do you not consider that the transfer of the National Geological Fund to the Minno-Geological University of Minno-Geological University is a prerequisite for its improper use by an interested company? Isn't that a conflict of interest? Wouldn't that result in a loss of revenue for the state budget at the expense of an increase in revenue for the private company? I do not know, Madam Minister, whether you have been informed about the relations of the Rector of the Mino-Geological Institute in the past and now with members of the political offices of the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Ministry of Interior, and it is not my job to spread rumors about the rector's commitment to the manager of the said firm. Surely the initiation of the process of moving the National Geological Fund to this university has not happened without external pressure, given your concerns, because this is not on your initiative. Madam Minister, it is your official and, above all, moral responsibility not to allow this, as I have already said, a priceless fund to be plundered and illegally used. This responsibility is not only to ensure the proper functioning of the National Geological Fund, but also responsibility to the efforts of all scientists, geologists, engineers involved in its creation, but even more responsibility to future generations, who can benefit from the vast array of knowledge stored in it. Do not allow private interests, covered under concern for the presidency of Bulgaria, one of the motives that the Ministry of Environment and Water had to take over reason and morality. Do not enter the contemporary history of Bulgaria as an accomplice in the destruction of information about our underground wealth. The Ministry of Environment and Water can very easily provide halls for its needs. They want 466, 99 sq. That's what they're short of, that's what the Fund borrows. I ask: 466, 99 sq. Are they more important? Wouldn't it be cheaper and more nationally responsible to leave the fund where it is located, but with the revenues from this fund 300 thousand. BGN, you can buy such premises in one year. There is no need to move the Fund. It's easier to move clerks than to move informational arrays. I urge you to stand up for the National Geological Fund. To prevent him from being moved is the only way to avoid putting his existence at risk. In the battle for its preservation we, the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria and I am sure that all those who care about our home country and MPs will be on your side. You have our support in this battle. I have an extra conversation that I'm going to have with the Minister of Environment and Water on his whims, as I would call them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. For the coat, Mrs. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, thank you for your willingness to support this undertaking. I want to assure you that what the Ministry of Energy has taken as an action is what I have just informed you about. We have done as it should be done, as the regulations provide. We have addressed the competent authority of the district governor of Sofia to provide a space to be owned by the Ministry of Energy so that we can take care of this archive in the best way possible. I believe that the concerns you have expressed just now are really unfounded, and I assure you that everything we are doing is entirely and solely within the framework of the law and in the interests of the work that the National Geological Fund has to do, and so far it is doing it successfully. As to what the claims of the Ministry of Environment and Water are. Without wanting to be a lawyer to colleague Dimov, it is still a building located in the Ministry of Environment and Water and in all likelihood they want to use it for other needs. We need to act cooperatively and wisely, at the same time, to take care of what we have as national wealth. I think what the Ministry of Energy is doing is in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u96	Thank you, dear Minister. Let us thank Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova for today's participation Minister of Energy. We are going with questions to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov. The issue is from the MPs Lalo Kirilov and Krasimir Yankov concerning the granting of interest-free loan from the Republican budget of Krivodol municipality. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u97	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! At the beginning of September, my colleague Krasimir Yankov and I were invited by the residents of Krivodol Municipality to a meeting where they signaled a financial violation committed by Mayor Petar Danchev. At the meeting the residents of the municipality presented materials for systematic non-payment of health and pension insurance to the administration in the amount of more than half a million leva. For their repayment Mr. Danchev asks the state for a interest-free loan worth 630 thousand. lv. The decision on the entire loan was taken at a session of the municipal council in August 2016, and the money received in October of the same year. When the funds are entered into the account of Krivodol Municipality, without the knowledge of municipal councilors, the money is transferred to another account. The project in question is for afforestation of non-farm lands financed by European funds under the Rural Development Programme of 535 thousand. lv. After receiving a number of signals from citizens and mayors of town halls that there is no real afforestation on this project, the State Fund of Agriculture is imposing a hundred per cent penalty, i.e. the municipality must recover the money. Thus Peter Danchev enters the spiral of financial violations. A year later, there was no payment on the loan granted by the State and on the contributions due. Therefore, the National Revenue Agency and the National Insurance Institute form executive cases. A public court contractor describes part of the property of the municipality. Under ban are the old city hall building, dormitory, schools in three villages, a police station base and others that are secured in these cases. Dear Minister, in relation to the above, my question is: have you carried out a check of the documents provided for the approval of funds in the receipt of the request by the mayor of the municipality? What control does the Ministry of Finance carry out over the budget of municipalities to which interest-free loans are granted under art. 103, para. 1 of the Public Finance Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. For an answer the Minister of Finance, Mr. Vladislav Goranov. Here you go, Mr. Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u99	Mr. Kirilov, Mr. Yankov, the question is from both ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! According to the provision of the Public Finance Act, which the public representative quoted, in the case of temporary cash disruptions to the budget of the senior authorising officers, which are not part of the state budget, the Minister of Finance may grant interest-free loans at the expense of the central budget with a deadline for reimbursement no longer than the end of the following budget year. The provision by the Ministry of Finance of loans to municipalities is carried out in order and conditions identical to all municipalities, including the municipality of Krivodol. Upon receipt of the request for a loan, an in-depth analysis of the financial situation of the municipality shall be carried out and the legality and appropriateness of the request in terms of the Public Finance Act and the Municipal Debt Act shall be assessed. The monitoring of the implementation of the budget of all municipalities, including those with an interest-free loan to overcome temporary cash disruptions, is carried out monthly and quarterly by evaluating and publishing the website of the Ministry of Finance with indicators of the financial situation of the municipalities. In the event of a deviation or non-compliance with fiscal rules and parameters, appropriate action shall be taken towards municipalities which are bound by efforts to improve financial discipline, target spending of the funds provided by the State budget and the timely recovery of loans received from the central budget. From the beginning of 2017 until now, letters of verification in over 100 municipalities have been sent to the Agency for State Financial Inspection concerning various violations of financial discipline on the basis of evidenced by the analysis of data breaches of regulatoryly defined indicators. At this stage the municipality of Krivodol is not included in the scope of the municipalities examined. The municipality of Krivodol was granted, as you mentioned, an interest-free loan of 630 thousand. lv. with a repayment term of 1 October 2018, subject to the order of art. 103, para. 1 of the Public Finance Act. We are currently monitoring the financial performance of the municipalities. If there is a deviation from the commitments made by the mayor of the municipality and the municipal council to overcome the financial difficulties and/or temporary cash disruption, immediate action will be taken as provided for in the Public Finance Act. In accordance with art. 106 of the same Act to be awarded transfers to a budgetary organisation may be taken into account to recover transfers and interest-free loans from it for the corresponding budgets or at the expense of EU funds. We're constantly watching this process. Outside of this punctual response, I would like to assure you that if there are legitimate signals of breach of legislation, we are prepared to carry out an immediate financial inspection in the municipality to verify whether your claims are justified and whether there are actual violations of the law. Our position has been the most well-meaning to try to help a poor essentially municipality. If the local community cannot cope with the quality of financial management, then we will intervene.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u100	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! You did not listen carefully to the clarification on the question asked by your fellow Member. Our question is about the facts. There is a proposal from the mayor of the municipality of Krivodol Petar Danchev to the municipal council, I respect: The purpose of the loan from the central budget is to assist the municipality in paying off debts to the National Revenue Agency, thus avoiding further aggravation of the budget with interest generated daily and leading to a continuous increase of debts. On the basis of this proposal, there is a decision of the municipal world which has been given to you as a copy-extract only how they voted. Otherwise, in the very request to you, Mr. Minister, the same elected mayor of Krivodol Municipality Petar Georgiev Danchev writes to you: The requested temporary interest-free loan of 630 thousand. lv. 498 194 thousand are planned. lv. to go for repayment of a financial correction to the State Fund......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The difference of 131,806 thousand. lv. We plan to repay the debts to the Operational Programme "Environment 2007" "2013" on financial corrections of the municipality. A copy-extract has been provided with which you are informed that there is a decision of the municipal council for 630 thousand. lv. Our question to you is: how do you check the interest-free loan claim? Understandably, by decision of the government, the Minister of Finance provided municipalities with a difficult financial situation with such a loan. But there's a gap here. The mayor asks the municipal council to vote on a interest-free loan for an obligation to the NRA, you are told that they will be for adjustments that are imposed on the municipality, and in fact these adjustments are paid with the money that you have granted. How do you exercise control because you are misled and this is a violation? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The mayor is responsible, but you're in charge of that money. That's the point. Answer that question. Here you are, Minister! This is the documentation that has been provided to us, along with colleague Lalo Kirilov. I'd like you to meet her in detail... [[submits documents to Minister Vladislav Goranov]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u102	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u103	...and inform us how you will react to this fraud.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u104	Mr. Yankov, your time is up! Here you go, Mr. Dummies Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u105	You're messing with the institutions a little bit. We're the finances, we're not the investigation. If there is a claim that a crime has been committed, there is a order in which it can be established. We have sufficiently reliable mechanisms to ensure that the central budget is read with the municipality in a way in which the interest of the state budget is protected. In this case, it is positive that, apart from being misled, the municipal council, probably subsequently the minister of finance, still the funds went to meet the obligations of the same municipality and not to purchase or some inappropriate investment. Either way, on the basis of this gap, which you are commenting on, I am prepared to carry out an inspection in the municipality and find out if there are any violations that we can inform you of in due order. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] The Agency for State Financial Inspection in the case of the Minister of Finance. For the last question, we must properly find the balance between the separation of authorities. I'm not a big fan of the community. People choose mayors and councillors, and they control and manage local budgets. We have witnessed many failures of the local community, respectively the local authorities. Then the government should have helped and helped where we can, by, of course, striving to stimulate good governance and not to stimulate poor governance. The interest of the state will be protected to the extent that we have mechanisms, regardless of the outcome of the situation of the checks and regardless of the future actions or omissions of the local authorities, to get our loan back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u106	Thank you, dear Minister. This ended the questions to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov. Let's thank him for today's participation in parliamentary control. We are going with questions to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov. The first question is from the MP Georgi Gokov concerning problems in the granting and payment of pensions to Bulgarian citizens who worked in Greece. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u107	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! My question is about problems in granting and paying pensions to Bulgarian citizens who worked in Greece. These Bulgarian citizens there regularly paid their social contributions. At the moment when they retire, or even at the time of their retirement, they create different problems from demanding documents to failing to pay their pensions. These problems are not new, but for one reason or another remain unresolved for many years. It is understandable for people to ask themselves whether the responsible institutions in our country are aware of these problems, and do they want to receive answers to the state and how to protect their interests, in this case rights? Because the common rules of the European Union for the recognition of social security rights and for their protection, when citizens move from one country to another, are among the most important parts of Community law, and these common rules of the European Union are based on four principles. Main of which is the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination. And this principle requires the Bulgarian citizens to enjoy the same rights and obligations as those of the citizens of the country in which the work is done and the provision is carried out, in this case Greece. I definitely believe that the problems presented by me and the people who come to my reception and to the admissions of my colleagues and who pose their problems for pensions are with violated rights, and in the violation of their rights one of the four basic principles has been violated, namely the one about equal treatment and discrimination of Bulgarian citizens. In this regard, I also have questions for you, Mr. Minister. Is there any clarity on the scale of the problem? Are statistics maintained on the number of Bulgarians who have acquired pension rights in Greece, on the number of pensions allocated, on the regularity of the translations from there? What are the measures that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will take so far, and what are the future in the short and long term, which your team will take to ensure the correct implementation with regard to Bulgarian citizens Common rules of the European Union for the protection of social security? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. For an answer the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Biser Petkov. Here you go, Mr. Petkov. Three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy takes into account the importance of the issues raised and has been working over the past few years on a number of complaints by citizens related to the granting and receiving of pensions from the Hellenic Republic, which stand out two major problems. The first relates to the delay in confirming information on the availability and duration of periods of insurance from a Greek country, which is an obstacle to the granting of pensions to persons. And the second, with suspension, is the payment and non-renewal of Greek pensions already granted. According to data from the National Insurance Institute (NSI), the cases at the time when the right of a Bulgarian pension has not been assessed due to an unconfirmed insurance internship in Greece are 908. And the cases where the right to a Greek pension has not been assessed or, in particular, the NSI has not received any information about this, are 933. The certification of insurance service in Greece is also important for the granting of a Bulgarian pension due to the rules for the summation of insurance periods in the Member States of the European Union. The problems were discussed at different levels between the two countries at the level of ministers of labour, at joint meetings of the Governments of the Republic of Bulgaria and Greece in December 2012 and in August 2016, at expert level within the Administrative Commission of the European Community for the Coordination of Social Security Systems, as well as within the framework of the working interaction between the Labour and Social Affairs Office at the Embassy of the Republic of Bulgaria in Athens, which is headed by a representative of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and the competent departments of the United Social Security Fund of the Greek Republic of FK. In addition, the National Insurance Institute of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Insurance Fund FC are in constant interaction to solve the above problems. In 2015, a Cooperation Agreement was concluded in the field of state social security between the national insurance institutions of the two countries, which is the framework for this interaction. With regard to the first problem, the Greek administration pointed out as an explanation the existence of objective reasons such as a huge number of employees left the insurance institutions and the inability to replace them with new staff. On the other hand, the social security system in Greece is in a state of radical reform, which was implemented by Law 4387 of 2016, and entered into force since the beginning of this year. A major expression of this reform is the merger of all insurance funds into one. This is the FC Joint Insurance Fund. This merger has put many challenges of an organizational nature, including the distribution of activities in the new administration of the Greek insurance institution. We have information from our Employment and Social Affairs Office in Athens that a temporary organisation has been established, and all incoming files related to the certification of periods of insurance and the issuance of pension decisions are to be distributed by the former Pension Division to citizens of the recent Main Insurance Fund ICA, which now performs functions as a distribution unit. This circumstance further delays the reaction of the Greek administration on case files of citizens of the European Union. The second problem relating to the suspension and non-renewal of pensions is often linked to a failure to comply with the legal requirements introduced from the beginning of 1 March 2013 in the Greek legislation on the existence of a Greek social security number.. The abbreviation is AMC, and the tax number AFM. This applies to both Greek citizens and all other citizens of the European Union and third countries receiving a Greek pension. The receipt of these numbers may take place only in person or through an agent, and it is not possible for the application to issue a tax number to be made by mail. This requirement makes it difficult for persons living outside the territory of Greece to be subject to an address registration requirement. The procedure for processing new documents according to these requirements also leads to a delay in the renewal of payments. Additional difficult factors may be lack of completed and sent annual declarations, the existence of new circumstances, as well as omissions in the documentation. According to NSI data, the number of Greek pensions allocated to Bulgarian citizens is currently 4780. The payment of pensions, according to European regulations, is done in a direct way, i.e. in the provided bank accounts of the persons, and therefore we do not have any information about any delays in payments. I would like to point out that the Greek authorities clearly exclude the existence of discriminatory treatment of Bulgarian citizens, pointing out that the delay in processing the pension insurance service applies equally to Greek citizens, for whom the period for issuing decisions on pension benefits is about two years. For Bulgarian citizens, this period is longer because of the procedure for confirming and summating internship in more than one Member State of the European Union. The management and administration of the United Insurance Institute FC are informed in detail about the problems with certification of the insurance internship for the pensions of the Bulgarian citizens. The Office for Labour and Social Affairs at the Embassy of the Republic of Bulgaria in Athens is in constant interaction with the European Union Pension Division, which has reached an agreement on priority consideration of cases with more significant delays. The Office for Labour and Social Affairs in Athens has also put problems before the new Chairman of the FC Mr. Atanasios Bacaleksis, who demonstrated understanding and readiness for constructive dialogue. We have the assurance of the representatives of the FC that the organization of the new administration will be completed by October this year and that it will most likely complete the work of preparing electronic registers to verify citizens' periods of insurance, which should significantly improve the time for processing documents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u110	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u111	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. President, thank you for the opportunity to answer the Minister because the question is really extremely serious and affects quite Bulgarian citizens. I understand the difficulties of the Greek insurance institutions, they are clear, arising from their relations with Europe and the repressions and sanctions imposed on Greece, and the pension system had to turn upside down. But it is unacceptable to me that in the 21st century such things can happen in two European countries and that it has categorically denied the Greek side discriminatory treatment of Bulgarians there. I can ask you one question: can you imagine if a few, not even one, but a few Greek citizens in Bulgaria had the same thing happen, what noise will rise from the other side and what will happen next? Or we, as Bulgarians, are some masochists who have to endure everything that piles on our heads. In a way, we are doing it ourselves, because I, after I, am sorry to involve another topic, but after the court's decision on this Swedish citizen who has allowed himself to rule in Bulgaria, I do not have much hope. Thank you once again for the comprehensive answer and I have no doubt that you are doing what is possible on our part, but perhaps with the assistance of our MEPs, with the assistance of Europe, we should resolve this issue. It's no secret to you, I ask this question periodically. Last time was a year and a half or two ago, and then the Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin said that everything is being done for these people, but the problems continue. I hope you don't have to ask the same question after another year, after two years, because it's not normal. The Bulgarians expect their country to protect them. Believe me, that's what they really expect from the state, at least that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u112	Thank you, Lord Gokov. A hole? No. The next question is from the National Representative Anton Kutev on a mechanism for social evaluation of the individual needs of people with disabilities. You have the floor, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u113	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, colleagues! As I recall, there was a series of parliamentary questions at the end of June, including a parliamentary debate on the subject of people with disabilities, as a result of which, in the Committee on Interaction with NGOs, there was such a debate in which a Decision of 29 June commissioned the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to propose amendments to the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities and in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Social Assistance in order to prepare a real social assessment of the individual needs of disabled people, which enables the provision of adequate social services in support of persons for social inclusion and independent lifestyles. This social assessment is normally decided in art. 12 of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, where, however, it is only said that such an assessment must be made and the work is accordingly transferred to the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. That is why the Commission's recommendation sends to the development of these rules, where, by the way, in art. 11, 12 and 13 are described how the relevant social assessment should happen and this assessment is also subject to art. 16 of the Law on Social Assistance and, respectively, of the Rules for Implementation of the Law. However, the assessment that is being made does not actually meet the requirements of the Law.................... about this we have already talked about, and it proves to be extremely important to people with disabilities. Because it is clear that when the whole system is now stepping on the TELK and when the TELK accordingly tells you that you are 90%, unfortunately, don't give yourself a God, but it happens to a lot of people who are incapable, there are people with 90% disability or disability who have one option, others. That is, this evaluation of TELK does not allow the real evaluation of people to be made of what they need in order for appropriate measures to be taken towards them from now on. That is why it comes down to the question that this assessment should be done properly. It is important and it is clear, by the way, that making this assessment actually reverses a large part of the social assistance system that has been working so far. And that's why we realize this is a difficult job. To be honest, I have here the minutes of the Commission's work, in which your deputy minister, who was at these talks, made a little selfless commitment to how August month must have worked out those things that October-November had already introduced the Social Services Act, which, in my opinion, in which law this social assessment should be at the heart of the mechanism. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. So with the clear awareness that these are complex mechanisms, my question to you is: what has the Ministry done to implement these decisions of the Commission and, respectively, the National Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u114	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u115	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, in answer to your question about the development of a mechanism for social evaluation of the individual needs of people with disabilities, I would like to provide the following information about the actions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The first act is the development of a Draft Decree amending and supplementing the Rules for Implementation of the Social Assistance Act. The changes are prepared in cooperation and consensus with representatives of the government sector and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. The proposed changes shall lay down the order and methodology for carrying out the individual assessment of support needs and preparation of an individual support plan for the use of social services, as well as their content, the time limits for its update and review. The overall process of preparation and implementation is envisaged to be carried out by social service providers delegated by the State or local activity. The evaluation and plan shall be developed by a multidisciplinary team of the relevant social service to which the person is directed. The individual assessment of support needs and the individual support plan for the use of social services is envisaged to be reviewed and updated as necessary, but not later than 12 months after their establishment. It is intended to satisfy the health needs of persons placed in specialised institutions to draw up a health plan by a person with appropriate medical education. This plan is an integral part of the individual support plan. The proposed changes regulate the obligation of the Social Assistance Directorate and the mayors of municipalities to provide advice and information to individuals about all types of social services they can use, including the profile of the services. A social service provider, when delegated by the State, cannot refuse accommodation, respectively the use of the service of a person directed by the Social Assistance Directorate of the ASSP if the service meets the needs of the person. The supplier may only give reasons to refuse if the individual needs assessment demonstrates that it cannot provide support for the person. If the reasoned refusal of the supplier is not appealed, the Directorate shall take action to direct the person to another service, such as accommodation and direction, the supplier shall make the refusal and offer the person those activities through which it is possible to be supported within the service. The prepared changes will improve access to social services by adults, including persons with disabilities, and guarantee their right to free choice to use the social services they need. The draft Decree of the Council of Ministers amending and supplementing the Rules for Implementation of the Social Assistance Act has an approved partial preliminary impact assessment and was published on 13 September 2017 for public consultation on the public consultation portal and on the Ministry's website. In accordance with the National Assembly Decision, promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union, No. 55 from 7 July, an Interdepartmental Working Group was established with the task of developing a new methodology for social evaluation to determine the individual needs of people with long-term disabilities. This is our second action, which we have taken following the discussions that have been held in the Commission chaired by you. The working group has developed a methodology for carrying out social assessment in determining the individual needs of people with disabilities under art. 12, para. 1 of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. The methodology aims to enable adequate and supportive action based on the social assessment carried out. The rules and conditions described in the new methodology for carrying out a social assessment to determine the individual needs of people with permanent disabilities shall also allow for self-assessment of needs by including the person who is permanently damaged in the assessment process in the event of his expressed desire. This approach aims at making the most accurate assessment of the appropriate type of support, consistent with the individual needs and integration opportunities of the rated entity, taking into account the conditions of the environment in which it lives. The principle opinion of the representatives of the disabled organisations in the discussion of the draft methodology at the meeting of the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, held on 14 September 2017, is that for the preparation of a complex social assessment of people with disabilities, taking into account the individual needs carried out by means of a differentiated approach, i.e. by working on a specific case in establishing individual opportunities for social integration, a change in legislation needs to be made. Otherwise, there is a risk that the approach to assessing individual needs is contrary to the legal provisions in force, which would result in formality and lack of efficiency of the evaluation process. The reason for this is now the legislation in force, which does not imply the signing of a more flexible approach to support those with permanent disabilities only by changing the regulation. In this regard, the Ministry will take action to develop a change of legislation in line with the reform of medical expertise, the introduction of expertise of workability, as well as the upcoming changes to the Rules for Implementation of the Social Assistance Act, which are in the project and the assessment of needs for social services. With regard to the question asked, I would add that there is a working group that prepares a Draft Law on Social Services, but the readiness of this working group will be next year, because indeed, as you have found in your exposé, the problem is very big and needs serious work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u116	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Kutev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u117	Thank you for your answer, Minister. From what you say, I understand that you are actively working on this issue within the Ministry, as it is written in the decision for which, on behalf of the disabled people, thank you. Another point is that we all know that both I and you and the disabled, that there was actually a mechanism until now. I mean, it's not the most important thing to write some kind of work mechanism and make it work. Because that's actually the problem that there was a mechanism so far, but it didn't work, and it's a good thing that you're looking at it in the whole context of how it's going to work, because you started with social services. I agree that we need new legislation. We are here and I would support all the forms that you propose for new legislation, including we would be involved in the development of one. Of course, the Social Services Act itself is much more difficult and it can hardly be made outside the Ministry, as we have spoken with you. That is, I rely on the Ministry to prepare the Social Services Act as quickly as possible, at least because the concept of a social service provider is currently so developed in the legislation and regulations that it cannot actually work, especially at the level of personal assistant, that is, at the level of personal assistance. In this situation, you do have a lot of work. It is good that she has started, which I appreciate and hope that people with disabilities will also pay this bill. Here the most important thing is how it ends. The most important thing is whether the mechanism that you will work out will in practice be able to be used to give the necessary results. The most useful of my discussions with the organisations of people with disabilities was that they even say: it is not so important to increase money for people with disabilities, which is, of course, always important because they are unequal, the most important thing is to make the way that the current money and the current mechanisms work for our benefit so that they are effective. That's your responsibility right now. Again, I am satisfied that you are working. I congratulate you on this, but keep in mind that soon we must have results to work, and from what you have told me, I cannot determine whether the measures you are taking are adequate, i.e. whether the result will work. That's your job. I hope in a month or two we can now move on to a more specific conversation where we have really written texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. A hole, Mr. Secretary? No. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to questions to Nikolay Nankov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, who will answer, first, a question from the MPs Filip Popov, Tsvetan Topchiev, Ivan Genov and Nikolay Ivanov concerning the North-Western region of Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Topchiev, to develop your question. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u119	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Minister, the Northwestern region remains the last almost all economic indicators compared to the other regions in Bulgaria and in the European Union. The northwest region has the lowest regional gross domestic product per capita in the European Union. The region has the most negative population growth and the highest unemployment rate. The assessment of the overall impact of the Regional Development Plan of the North-Western Region on the development of the region is limited. Different opportunities have been discussed for revival of the Northwest Development of Tourism, Agriculture and so on, but in fact one of the most serious obstacles to the development of the region is bad infrastructure. In this regard, our question to you is: what will be the policy of your trusted ministry for a significant improvement in road infrastructure in the Northwestern region? Which road sections will be a priority for building and rehabilitation during your term of office? Will real financing finally be provided for the second and third grade Republican roads in the poorest region of Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Topchiev. Minister Nankov, come in for an answer. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable gentlemen Popov, Topchiev, Genov and Ivanov! There is a great need for maintenance and modernization of roads in the country. This is a fact that is a prerequisite for ensuring economic growth, improving traffic management, road safety, national connectivity and facilitating trade, of course, security. The current system, based on a sticker, is insufficient for the state budget to improve the state of the road network and even to maintain its current state. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, together with the API, has taken concrete steps to change the policy regarding charging for the use of road infrastructure. The introduction of a mixed system will ensure stable and long-term financing and the necessary maintenance and modernisation of roads. These actions are initiated not only in the context of the common European transport policy, because we are convinced that the introduction of the mixed system will provide significantly greater revenue mainly from the transit heavy goods vehicles, which will enable development and modernisation of roads. Moreover, this is the fairest approach and model. The implementation of the Tol system will undoubtedly reflect on policy with regard to regions to significantly improve the state of road infrastructure, the policy to ensure transport accessibility and safe conditions of movement. Including, focus, as we have stated during this term, Northern Bulgaria and, of course, Northwestern. Currently, according to the funds allocated by the state budget to maintain and repair the Republican Road Network during the relevant budget year, the Road Infrastructure Agency is planning its investment programme by prioritizing road sections depending on their performance, intensity of movement and other factors. Priority shall be given to cases where emergency recovery activities are necessary. For example, under the Support Programme in 2015, API invested 9 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. for ongoing repair and winter maintenance in the districts of Vidin, Vratsa and Montana and about half a million means of replacing signs, restrictive systems, marking. In 2016, in addition to the ongoing maintenance, the Agency implemented a number of sites to improve the operational state of the Republican roads in Northwestern Bulgaria. It is no accident that I am focusing attention on the three districts and not on the entire Northwestern region, as I have seen, however, that the MPs are representatives of the three districts of Vidin, Vratsa and Montana. The funds for these sites are provided by the state budget with the Order of the Council of Ministers. We are talking about a total amount in 2016, invested under current maintenance repairs in the three areas I mentioned in the Northwestern region, of development of over 61 million. BGN, and I will only list some of the roads. For Vidin, for example, this is 31 million, for the roads Vidin "Dimovo 11 million." Topolovets, the third-class 112 route, is four million. Dimovo "Bella" "Skomlja" "Mediovnitsa" "I-1" road 12 million. And 600,000. lv. For Vratsa, for example, over 22 million. lv. The part of the E-79 road within the city for about 14 million. lv. and the Republican route Vratsa "Kryvodol" for more than 4 million. 400,000. lv. In Montana is a slightly more limited resource about seven million leva. I mentioned a total of three areas in 2016. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. At present, almost 12 million have been spent in 2017 for ongoing repairs and maintenance, including for signs, restrictive systems and marking. lv. In addition to the funds provided by the state budget, the same as the 12 million. BGN, Road Infrastructure Agency........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the three districts the Programme "Transit Roads 5" has been rehabilitated and constructed new sections of the Republican Road Network. These are the Petrohan Passway II-81, built by Berkovitsa, two new bridge facilities on the same road II-81 and the rehabilitation of the section "Yonchev Khans." Two sections of road II-13 were rehabilitated. Under the program is rehabilitated road section Mezdra "Novi Iskar" in the part of Vratsa district. In 2015 was implemented Project of Operational Programme "Regional Development 2007 - 2013" worth almost 13 million. lv. on the road II-13 border of the road Krivodol For this mandate in the programme of the Agency "Travel Infrastructure" is set to begin the implementation of the Republican road Vidin "Botevgrad" along the main road artery, which connects the rest of Bulgaria with these three districts of the Northwestern Development Region and, of course, with Danube Bridge 2. The total length of the project is 167 km We have funding of almost 3 million. lv. with VAT under Operational Programme "Transport for the construction of these sections." The deadline for completion of the activities is the end of 2018 for technical design. The Agency's investment programme is a priority, I mentioned which two sections, and we will start the public procurement for the engineering of the route from Botevgrad to Mezdra this year. We're making a firm commitment. In 2018 we will also award the public contract for the tour of Dimovo in 2018. Apart from that, two road sections in the Northwestern region, rather in the three districts and not in the whole area, because in the Lovech district we have one, in Plevenska we have two more roads in the three districts which fall within the range of Offers for choice of contractor and respectively construction supervision are open. The work of the committees continues. We expect the contracts to be concluded by the end of the year and to start in 2018 with this section and, of course, Vratsa Cave Ledenika in Vratsa region. The two contracts were signed yesterday. We have given the official launch to implement this important 17km section of the region, not only for the development of the Regional Centre of Vratsa, but also for tourism in the region. In this year, with the funds set aside by a decree from the Council of Ministers 20 days ago in the Northwestern region, we foresee the rehabilitation of three more road sections. These are: in Vratsa region we have rehabilitation of Route II-11, including the division of Hayredin, through Hurlets to Miziya, Krushovitsa and Oryahovo; in Montanski district we also have two roads, in Vidin one. Currently, we have launched the tender procedures for the toughest section of the second-class road connecting the Vidin region with Serbia through the pass. From this tribune, I have made a commitment, which will then be realized for the overall rehabilitation of the second-class road, the connection of Vidin region with Serbia through the pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u122	Thank you, dear Minister. For two supplementary questions please come in, Mr. Ivanov, you have a total of two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! The development of our questioning and your response have been delayed for objective reasons for quite a long time, and I really must admit that in the last two months.... in August and September, there are clear signs of a change in attitude towards road infrastructure in the Northwest. However, people have listened very much to words and promises, and they find it hard to believe. Congratulations on yesterday's beautiful day for Vratsa and the new central boulevard, which is still taking part of traffic in the direction of Vidin and the start of building the road for Ledenika, which, as you said, will have an impact on the development of the entire region, and not just tourism in the area, which I have just said. My two additional questions are rather in the form of a commitment that I expect you to take. You have already said that, but again I ask you clearly and categorically to state that you have a clear and accurate schedule for the start of the construction of the road Mezdra. My second additional question is: will you make a clear commitment and set up in the 2018 budget procedure, a clear and financially provided plan to improve the second-class and third-class road network in the region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Minister Nankov, please come in and answer the two additional questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov and Mr. Topchiev! Yes, the commitment that I will not only make, but which we will fulfil within the remaining term of office - for another three and a half years - is real action, not just promises, on the most important road artery in Northwestern Bulgaria. Thank you for your evaluation, because not just in words, and you have also quite actively participated in the process of forming even our policies, asking multiple questions on the subject, but you are already seeing real actions and ensuring technical readiness, and I am also making specific commitments to launching tender procedures for the construction of the most important road section E-79. The fact is that the majority of the renovation activities of the second-class and third-class road network in Northwestern Bulgaria and in particular in the three areas for which we are commenting and back in time, I mentioned also 2015, 2016, and this year, and the next, will come from the state budget, from the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency, or if, God forbid, and next year is as well the revenue generated in the budget exceeded significantly the costs and the Road Infrastructure Agency is benefiting this year with new 100 million. lv. through a deliberate decree, we expect the same approach next year if we implement and if the Ministry of Finance works at the same extremely good pace. I therefore, for a reason, lost a minute and a half in the exposé of the questions at the outset, to speak again about tolls and electronic wineries, since really real commitments, except for words, in the field of road maintenance and quality road infrastructure second and third class, will come when a name really fair model and sufficient financial resources under tol fees and electronic wineries. Of course, I have always emphasised that we should not ignore the fact that this is the quantitative dimension of the issue and its qualitative dimension, i.e. the effective spending of this resource indeed with better control and greater quality. Today a very interesting case: a Facebook signal for a remounted road 2016 in your area. We responded immediately after the signal. Even the citizen has already bragged to a Vratsa media, but I didn't expect anyone to comment medialy. As soon as next week, the road will be rehabilitated at the expense of the contractor and his warranty. So the quality of repairs is also very important. I mentioned, of these 100 million roads in Northwestern Bulgaria, I can specify them: Vidin District, Road III-114; Lom lv. 21 km long of the road; I mentioned about the "Turkka Khaka" this is with a budget of the "Travel Infrastructure" Agency. For the roads in the region of Montana, we have road III-102.38 km, three municipalities service.. Montana, Georgi Damyanovo and Chiprovtsi, more than 8 million. lv. Vratsa District I mentioned: Hayredin, Kriva Bar, Bhutan, Glozhene, via Hurletz to Oryahovo. It's all 30 kilometers this year, 24, almost 14 million. lv. We see what amounts, and as a percentage we can count them, are almost a third of the resources of the Decree in Northwestern Bulgaria. So next year the approach will be the same. With the increase of the financial resources, I mentioned in what way, an even larger resource in Northwestern Bulgaria not only for the main direction of the speed road Botevgrad You are responsible people and politicians and you are aware, I am convinced both the society and the population in the least part of Bulgaria, of Europe, that in recent years the funds invested in road infrastructure in Northwestern Bulgaria are really the most and the effect is visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u126	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! It becomes clear from your answer, and you have made a commitment that the road infrastructure in the North West will be your priority. We expect, of course, and as I have already said, there are signs of this, but we will continue to insist that this be done with serious and real action. The fact is that in recent years, all the serious problems solved in road infrastructure, mainly in the second-class and third-class road network, were happening and happening, there was a will to do so after people went out to protests. The freshest examples are the road through Dimovo, the protests in Mihailovo, recently in Oryahovo, for the central boulevard of Vratsa, part of E-79, several years ago there were also protests. You will agree that this way of solving problems is hardly the most effective one. It is time for our region to have not only a committed attitude but also a clear commitment, signed as an action plan, provided financially, for which I thank you for making this commitment in your response. In the forthcoming budgetary procedure, you will have our support for all actions in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The last question to Minister Nankov is from the MP Tsveta Karayancheva about the construction of a bypass of the town of Kardzhali. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, one of the most ill topics of Kardzhali district is the lack of a bypass. Its construction is laid down in the Regional Strategy of Kardzhali District, but it is still in the project stage. The road around the road will be part of Corridor No 9 from Scandinavia to the White Sea, however after the opening of the Macaza Pass in 2013 the traffic of cars became extremely intense and this passage is second in intensity of cars. The other big problem is that these cars pass through the center of Kardzhali, through the boulevard of Belomore and the Boulevard of May 1st. This creates extremely high prerequisites for road accidents. The situation in the summer is extremely difficult when tourists start coming from Ukraine, Moldova, Romania and also Bulgarian citizens who travel the road Haskovo I'd also like to provide you with a statistic. In 2014, 845 motor vehicles passed through Macaza, of which 464 for the period June only August; 2015 nearly a million vehicles, of which 524 thousand were in this quarter; 2016 already have a million and a hundred motor vehicles passed in one year, within the months of June. In August alone, we have 213 motor vehicles and 630 persons passing through the territory of Kardzhali District and the Makaza Pass. You can see that this statistic shows an extremely high increase in the intensity of passing motor vehicles. Given that, Mr. Minister, my questions are in this direction. I want to ask you: what stage is the project? When is construction scheduled to start, and is there funding planned for the construction of this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u130	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. Minister Nankov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Karayancheva, with the construction of the bypass of the town of Kardzhali, you know very well, you will solve a number of problems, some of them listed related to the transit movement and providing safe conditions for travel in the area. Exporting traffic from the characteristics of the locality will contribute to reducing harmful emissions to air and limiting the noise from heavy goods vehicles. The expectations are, of course, that with the implementation of the project, in addition to those benefits, the travel time will be reduced to and from Greece, which will favour the overall development of the region and transit traffic and freight traffic through Bulgaria, in particular through Kardzhali district. The project for the bypass of the town of Kardzhali is in an advanced stage of preparation. Currently there is a contract for the development of an ideal and technical project for the site. In January 2012, the first phase of the preliminary project was adopted for the bypass of the town of Kardzhali and in April 2013 a procedure was carried out under the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act and an EIA Decision was given to the Minister of Environment and Water. The final draft of the approved version of the EIA Decision, according to the legal procedure, has been adopted. In August 2017, the final version of the Project was adopted at the Expert Council a month ago. A 15 km long route is envisaged. The road is a complex engineering facility, starting about 6 km north of the town of Kardzhali along the existing route of Road I-5, close to the branch for the village of Black Rock, and the end of the road I-5, south of the town of Kardzhali, near the branch for the airport. In the construction of this complex road are included five Viaducts, the estacade of the Republican Third Class Road III-507, a bridge over the Arda River, about 1050 m long, overpasses, underpasses at crossings with railway and Republican, municipal and agricultural roads. A total of three road nodes were designed at the beginning and end for connection with the existing road and one road node with complex geometry when crossing with Road III-507, this is the boulevard of Bulgaria. The Road Infrastructure Agency is currently unable to commit itself to a specific deadline for starting construction, as the procedure, which must end as the field provision of the site and the conduct of public procurement, together with the construction and construction supervision, takes time, but I will say what steps we will then take. Of course, a possible appeal against these acts and decisions is likely to be impossible to set a specific deadline by a month in a given calendar year. But I am convinced that in 2018, we will complete all alienation procedures. Here with admiration and thanks to the regional management, which assists in this direction, so that in 2019 public procurement for further technical and working design and for the construction of the site. For me, the better option is engineering, because then we will save time, and we see that we currently have a draft expert council, submitted a very detailed design with good technical drawings and solutions. Of course, the route to be divided into two sections, there are quantitative accounts drawn up for the road. It's in general terms. Maybe I'll give some more details in the back. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u132	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Karayancheva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u133	Thank you, dear Minister. For me, as a representative from this region, it is very important to hear these words from you that things are really very advanced. I was informed of this, but I also wanted my fellow citizens from Kardzhali to understand that the projects and work on the road are in an advanced phase and the commitments that the Ministry of Regional Development, the API, and in particular the Prime Minister and the government, are in the direction of preserving as many lives as possible and not allowing road accidents that are taking place on the territory of Kardzhali. Just to tell you that in September 2013 the Macaza Pass was discovered, we have 98 traffic accidents, no kills, 38 wounded. In 2016, we have 184 road accidents, 8 dead and 63 wounded. So I thank you for this information that you give, for the work that you do and which we do jointly, of course. I understand that this is about a complex hydrotechnical facility, that there are a lot of procedures that need to be passed and it takes time. But the road around here, you can see it's vital. I am pleased that the years you have said and fixed for alienation procedures, 2019, to launch public procurement. I hope that funding will also be found, because this is the main point in a project. That is why I ask from the National Assembly's stand, I hope that your response will be heard by a Member of the National Assembly, who has gone to Kardzhali and is trying with lies and manipulations to win political PR. Just to say that if during the three coalitions there were rational spending, we would now have a ring road for 100 million, not a Water Mirror. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u134	And you wouldn't have water.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u135	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. A hole? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mrs. Karayancheva! A little more details about the preparation and procedures we are going to the Road Infrastructure Agency. The pilot project is presented in API, I mentioned the detailed plot of land for the site. It is currently being verified and the final version is being completed. It is to be submitted for consideration, as is the procedure, and to be endorsed by the Commission for Agricultural Land, and we have set a very ambitious indicative deadline in December 2017 to conclude this procedure as well. The procedure for the coordination of the parcel plan followed by a meeting of the National Expert Council on a structure of the territory and regional policy for the examination and adoption of a detailed planning plan, a parcel plan for Kardzhali's bypass. Next, the issue and entry into force of the Order of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and the approval of the detailed planning plan, after which, I mentioned, in 2018, under the State Property Act, we will actually complete the estrangement procedures with the assistance, as well as at the time, of the regional administration. So not only are we proving commitment to the project, but you see that the already preparatory plan of the construction itself is not advanced, but in the final phase. Regarding the funding and commitment that the Ministry can take, respectively the Road Infrastructure Agency, I, for a reason in my activity, fourth month as a minister, so much talking, so much action I do with colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency on the issue of the new system of charging toll fees for electronic wineries. Since all the commitments I make from this platform and not only could it be really difficult to implement without the actual introduction of tol fees and it is not just about commitments, this is about long-term, sustainable road sector policy, which policy may be the first as a sector that will have sufficient financial resources to be sustainable and sustain itself. That is, on the basis of the needs and needs in the road sector, the resource will be sufficient, without any hope of either European funding or borrowing, or corresponding funds from the surplus of the state budget. That means funds after 2018 on the basis of tol fees will be available, so rest assured, Kardzhali's bypass is a priority for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-29.u137	Thank you, dear Minister, for your reply and for your participation in today's parliamentary control. By doing so, we have exhausted the questions envisaged for today's parliamentary control. The next plenary session is on October 4, Wednesday, 2017 at 9.00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
