ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a necessary quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, today our country mourns the victims of the floods in Burgas. In Kameno municipality is the Day of mourning in memory of the fallen. Let us express our deepest condolences and sympathy to their families and loved ones for their severe loss. We are solid with their grief and pain and assure them that they are not alone in these times of trial. We are also genuinely sympathetic to all the inhabitants of the areas affected by the disaster. The most important thing at the moment is the state authorities, local authorities and citizens to join forces to overcome the effects of the water element. Let us, in a minute's silence, honor the victims' memory. [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence.]] Message: On 24 October 2017, the National Assembly received a letter from the President of the Court of Auditors informing that the institution had started preparing for its annual audit work programme for 2018. The letter requested information regarding the preparation of the programme to be provided by 13 November 2017. The letter was sent to all the Standing Committees of the National Assembly. We continue with the first item provided for today: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR ADMINISTERING THE LAW FOR REGULLING THE ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL OF THE STAPAN ACTION. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 10 October 2017. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill supplementing the Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business, No 702-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 October This Decision shall At its meeting held on 19 October 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business, No 702-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 October 2017. The meeting was attended by the administration of the Council of Ministers: Mr. Krasimir Bozhanov, Director of Administration Modernization and Mrs. Juliana Cholpanova, expert at the Directorate of Administration Modernization. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Bojanov, who pointed out that it introduced the principle of professional collection of information on the judicial status of individuals. The criminal record reference is proposed to be made through the official exchange of information between administrations. The Bill aims to significantly reduce the administrative burden for businesses and citizens by saving time and costs in relation to the provision of information on the judicial status of citizens. The changes will affect 68 laws, which contain the requirement to present a evidence of criminality to the administration. Mr. Bojanov noted that the proposed bill is in the implementation of one of the main priorities outlined in the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2020. ? reduce the administrative burden for citizens and for business. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hamid Hamid, Pencho Milkov and Christian Mitev, who expressed their support for the bill. Mr. Mitev pointed out the need to refine the term of the court status between the first and second votes. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 21 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Supplement to the Law on the Restriction of Administrative Regulation and Administrative Control of Business, No 702-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sabeva. I'm opening the debate. Statements? Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u4	Thank you, Madam President! Honourable Members, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support this bill. The central part of our economic programme is precisely the actions towards reducing administrative regulation and administrative pressure on business. In the election campaign we held over 50 business meetings, including with the American Chamber of Commerce, with the big Bulgarian employers' organizations and with all the regional structures of the business. I want to tell you, fellow Members, that this step is in the right direction, but it is absolutely insufficient. We heard this from the mouth of all the business structures we talked to, and one of the main obstacles to Bulgaria's economic development is precisely administrative pressure. In this direction, I suggest to colleagues from GERB to think about much wider steps and about much deeper changes, because, as you will see in the macroeconomic analysis of the budget that you have imported, economic growth is not due to investments. Economic growth is due to other factors, but not to investments. Lasting economic growth is the one that has stepped on investment. Investments in the country are not mainly due to this reason that the administrative pressure on the business is too high. And if I use the term "administrative pressure," it's out of respect for this tribune so I don't say "administrative racketeering," "provolved," and so on. But businessmen use those exact words. In fact, I don't need to remind you of that, because you all have a daily meeting with the business and you know that it is. This is accumulated in the years accumulated in various governments to be honorable to the colleagues who import it, but this step is extremely insufficient, I would even say that it is a bit unserious a whole bill of one measure. There are too many directions we have to work in. Even we, the DPS, believe that in many ways we need to reverse the direction of obtaining investment permits. I will only remind you that the first meeting of US President Donald Trump, after he was elected, was with large American investors, to whom he said literally the following: "America and the state will give in a folder the investment permits of each of you who wants to make an investment in the country. You won't be looking for them, you won't get them, you won't wait months, years, you won't get your licenses appealed again for years, and so on and so forth. Very impressive was our meeting with the American Chamber of Commerce, where from several billions of businesses said literally: The only obstacle not to increase investment and jobs is precisely the administrative regulation of the business. They showed us how an investment on the way to realization gets older innovatively when it gets the permission to be realized. She's not up to date anymore. So we really need to work in this direction and I think that this step is extremely insufficient. But as the first indicative, we will support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev! - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsonev, I share your basic conclusions as well as your application for this work to continue. I asked for a reply mainly for clarification, to clarify that this is one of the first laws with which we implement this measure and implement a government programme and the election commitments that GERB has made. It is a first measure and concerns only evidence of criminality. But I specify that with this Law we are actually changing 68 other laws. This is necessary because, to say, the criminal record is required for another 68 reasons, in 68 procedures. With regard to other securities that are normally collected in procedures that concern the administrative services of citizens and commercial companies, there will accordingly be subsequent such steps. In the debate in the Legal Committee, our colleague and your fellow party member, Mr Hamid, expressed his concern and said: It is true, the work will continue and very soon the Council, which works in the Council of Ministers, under the leadership of Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, will submit the next or the next such bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Kirilov, thank you for the line. Obviously, we're thinking and working in the same direction in this area. You've already made a line for me to use the right to the backrest. After a very thorough analysis, you said 68 laws are changing, in some areas we have reached 86 that need to be changed. Indeed, it is very complex matter, it is indeed very complicated work, so we believe that a new law should be drawn up in which to try to do what I was just talking about. Let's try the state to commit to granting a certain type of investment permits and to regulate which authorities give them, within what time limit, including penalties for those who delay the issuance of investment permits, including, if necessary, and by introducing silent consent where necessary. If we clear the way for investors, be absolutely sure that economic growth in the country will be the current minimum of two. Meet with all employers' organizations, meet with the business will confirm it to you one to one. They will even pull out files with investments that they cannot do because they have to wait an extremely long period. The route of investment must be shortened, even as I have already said, part of the route of investment must be driven by the state authorities themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u9	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Mareshki has a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We the Democrats, the patriots, the pragmatists, the technocrats of the Political Party will support this bill. We will also support any other initiative related to reducing bureaucracy and administrative pressure or racketeering, as our colleagues say, on business. Yes, the tax laws in Bulgaria are good, but we do not see growth in investments. This is for two reasons: the widespread corruption, I see, also has a consensus to fight it, and the other is the so-called administrative racketeering. There will be support from our formation here, but we believe that this is absolutely insufficient. In our election programme, we have set much heavier forms for improving the environment in terms of corruption and administrative pressure. Here I will add that we are ready for a dialogue to improve, to expand the operation of your bill. A short time ago, we were told to bet somewhere on the rule of silent consent. It is absolutely mandatory, and not somewhere, but everywhere it should be imposed. Even this is the only thing that would repeatedly unblock the investment process in Bulgaria and thus change the environment of work and life of all Bulgarian citizens. You have our support here. Let me just add that in our election meetings with the largest employers' organizations, with the largest chambers of commerce, including the American Chambers, and many others, all these people, representatives of huge business and Bulgarian and foreign, practically told us this: we need to change the environment in order to be able to unblock the investments that will repeatedly change the revenues in the treasury and, accordingly, the opportunities for many other social costs, to improve in our view the criminally low levels of incomes in Bulgaria, pensions, salaries. You can see that we are overwhelmed daily with initiatives, with strikes, with protests related to these incomes. We see that there are criminally low levels of security of those living in Bulgaria.. daily robbery, harassment, abuse, because the security sector is demotivated to work. Low incomes in this sector lead to the demotivation of police officers, employees in other sectors. This actually leads to widespread crime and the inability of Bulgarian citizens to live freely in their own country. Contrary to the criminally low levels of security and income, we see criminally high levels of corruption, criminally high levels of administrative pressure, not to mention racketeering. Therefore, we will support every step, even in our view, small. We are ready for a quick dialogue to see what other things you may not have thought of, to give you a hint to make a much stronger and much more meaningful law in the interests of investors, whether Bulgarian or foreign, and every Bulgarian citizen, of the Bulgarian state. Thank you and good luck.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u11	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Any lines to Mr. Mareshki's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. We move on to the vote of the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on the Restriction of Administrative Regulation and Administrative Control of Business, No 702-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 October 2017 at first reading. Please vote. They voted 167 MPs: for 167, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next item on our agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLAINTING THE LAW FOR LOCAL REPRESENTATIONS. I ask a representative of the Health Commission to present the report. Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 754-01-51, submitted by Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova and a group of MPs on 1 September 2017. At its regular meeting held on 5 October 2017, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 754-01-51, submitted by Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova and a group of MPs on 1 September 2017. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Health Prof. Nikolay Petrov, Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Miroslav Nenkov, representatives of word organizations in the field of health, patient organizations and others. The list of guests present at the meeting shall be annexed to the full transcript of the meeting. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the importer professor Dr. Anelia Klisarova. She acquainted the Members of the National Assembly with the objectives of the Bill, namely an addition to the provision of art. 106a of the Law on Medical Institutions governing the subsidization of medical institutions for the medical activities they carry out, for which it is provided by law or by any other regulatory act to be financed by the State budget by order and methodology defined by the Minister of Health. The Appendix provides for the inclusion of medical establishments under art. 5, para. 1 of the Law, which, according to importers, aims to ensure equal access to treatment of patients in relation to medical activities financed under the methodology. Prof. Klisarova clarified that he accepted the remarks in the written opinion of the Ministry of Health on this Draft and expressed his readiness to clarify the texts between the two votes under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. According to the draft law under consideration, support was expressed in written opinions: Ministry of Health, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Interior. The Bulgarian Medical Union has expressed support in principle in a written opinion. The Ministry of Finance does not support the Bill due to reasons set out in the written opinion. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out, the Committee on Health unanimously, with 20 votes in favour, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions, No 754-01-51, submitted by Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova and a group of MPs on 1 September 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. I'm opening the debate on the bill. You have the floor to speak. Mrs. Klisarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As said in the report by Dr. Daritkova, we want a change in art. 106, para. 1. Why do we want this change? Because there is currently no harmonisation between the regulations or hospitals under art. 5, para. 1 cannot receive subsidies from the Ministry of Health. We want it to be added to art. 106, para. 1 that these hospitals should also receive such a subsidy from the Ministry of Health under the regulation which has been drawn up. What are we doing with this? Equality between medical institutions so that everyone has the right to receive this necessary subsidy from the Ministry, and equal treatment between patients. I would like to point out that at the moment, for patients who are entering these hospitals along the aisle, for example 206: for craniotomys, unindicted by trauma, treatment through modern technologies, neuronavigation, neuroendoscopy or intraoperative ultrasound, as well as renal replacement therapy, therapeutic apheresis and others, they do not receive a subsidy for their activities. This change will lead to justice, so that every patient can be treated at the hospital he has chosen and that the hospital concerned can receive funds for the work he has done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Klisarova. Mr. Georgi Mihailov has the floor. Here you go. GEORGI Mihailov (BSP for Bulgaria): Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I think there was an impressive consensus on this bill yesterday. I would just like to add in a more understandable language outside of the paragraphs that allows the accessibility of Bulgarian patients to many modern, high-tech forms of treatment, and to medical institutions that are absolutely prepared, such as the Military Medical Academy, for example, to carry out this method of treatment. This is a emptiness in the Law, which must be harmonised in order to have really equal access of all Bulgarian citizens to these lifesaving forms of treatment. I think we will all be very pleased to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u16	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 754-01-51, submitted by Anelia Klisarova and a group of MPs on 1 September. This Decision shall They voted 139 MPs: for 139 against and abstentions there is no. The bill has been passed. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF FOOD LAWPROECT No 702-01-18, SENT BY THE MINISTER COUNCIL OF 26 SEPTEMBER 2017 I ask the Commission for Agriculture and Food to submit the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before that, I would ask for an admission procedure in relation to the draft Law of Mr. Tsvetan Dimitrov, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Granite and Forests; Mr. Atanas Dobrev, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests; and Mr. Laura Djuparova, Director of Directorate at the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u18	Honourable Members of Parliament are voting for admission to the Chamber of the proposed three representatives of the Ministry. They voted 130 MPs: for 129, against none, abstention 1. Please invite the representatives of the Ministry to the Chamber. Here you go, Mr. Gechev:
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Food Bill, No 702-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 September 2017. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 11 October 2017, discussing the quoted bill. The meeting of the Commission was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests.Dr. Tsvetan Dimitrov Deputy Minister, Dr. Laura Djuparova Director of the Department of Agriculture and Forestry, Asya Stoyanova Director of Legal Affairs and Diana Fileva Chief Legal Consult in the same Directorate. Dr. Ilian Kostov is present from the Center for Risk Assessment on the Food Chain as well as representatives of branch and non-governmental organizations. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Dimitrov. The draft sets out the general requirements for food safety, food business operators and food production, processing and distribution sites. The competent authorities at national level will be the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency (BABH) and the Regional Health Inspections at the Ministry of Health for mineral and spring waters. Conditions for official control of food shall also be laid down. Procedures for the registration or approval of establishments for the production, processing and distribution of food shall be introduced. The establishment of a public national register of business operators and sites for the production, processing and distribution of food, which BABBH will maintain on its website is envisaged. The establishment of a public national register of business operators and sites for the production of bottled natural mineral and spring waters and of a public register of the food placed on the market for which the competent authority is the Ministry of Health. The main requirements for food packaging, labelling and advertising are laid down. Business operators that produce, process and trade food will be obliged to offer foods labelled in accordance with the new European requirements. Food information, including label information, is intended to be presented in Bulgarian. No additional adhesive of a labeled product with information other than the original or in a way that conceals even part of the original labelling will be allowed. An explicit ban on advertising of genetically modified foods and foodstuffs for which there are regulatory restrictions for use by children is introduced, by means of advertisements or commercial communications aimed at a children's audience involving children or presenting children who consume these foods. There is also a ban on advertising foods and beverages containing ingredients and substances with nutritional or physiological effects such as fats, trans fatty acids, salt and sugar, which do not meet the requirements for a healthy diet. The general requirements for food placed on the market; requirements for business operators in the food sector; procedures for the registration or approval of establishments for the production and marketing of foodstuffs; conditions and arrangements for placing on the market for the first time food for special purpose and food supplements; conditions and procedures for carrying out food banking and food donation activities. For the first time, the requirements for food trading at a distance are regulated. Registration of vehicles for the transport of food of animal origin and food of non-animal origin such as flour, bread, bakery products and confectionery shall be introduced. Registration will be certified with a sticker. From the scope of the Bill is explicitly excluded primary production, preparation and storage of food for personal consumption. It is envisaged that the specific requirements for food groups, specific foods and their production, processing and distribution should be determined by regulations of the Council of Ministers. National measures will also be introduced by regulations of the competent ministers. A permanent Advisory Council is hereby established with the Minister of Health, which will assist the Minister in carrying out his powers relating to the recognition and marketing of natural mineral and spring waters. The composition, functions and procedure of the Council will be determined by the Council of Ministers. The establishment of the National Food Council is also envisaged as a permanent advisory body coordinating state policy in the food sector, with the participation of representatives of all stakeholders. The rights of industry organisations of producers, processors and food distributors and the criteria on which they will be allowed to participate in the Council are defined. The texts concerning the conciliation committee to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, which assists in the out-of-court resolution of disputes between business operators, compliance with good practices and non-discrimination of trade practices, are updated. An increase in the amount of sanctions imposed to violate the provisions of the Law is envisaged. In the subsequent discussion by the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, they said they would support the Bill, but expressed the opinion that the regulation of natural mineral and spring waters should rather be in the Water Act. They also noted that part of the procedures scheduled should be subject to regulations and not to the Law. From the parliamentary groups of GERB and of Volja......................Volja.............................................................................. The Association of Non-alcoholic Beverage Producers in Bulgaria declared itself strongly against the bill in its part of bottled water. According to them, the bill in this part is generally different from the originally notified version supported by the industry. They pointed out that in the part of the bottled waters there is a termological and meaningful discrepancy with both European definitions and with the rules of the Water Act in force, which will create legal uncertainty and prerequisites for administrative arbitrariness. They also indicated that no impact assessment of the changes and no consultation of the interested parties was carried out in the part of the bottled waters. The Bulgarian Industrial Association and the Bulgarian Industrial Association fully supported the opinion of the Association of Non-alcoholic Beverage Producers in Bulgaria. The Union of the Soft Industry in Bulgaria supported the bill and opposed the opinion of the other representatives of the industry. The National Branch Union of Bakers and Confectioners and the Association of Milk Processors in Bulgaria firmly supported the Bill and said that the new rules will help to combat the illegal production and distribution of food. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 19 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and 1 vote, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Food Bill, No 702-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 September 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u20	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. The next report belongs to the Health Committee. Who will present the report? Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u21	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} for the first vote on the Food Bill, No 702-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 September This Decision shall At its regular meeting held on 12 October 2017, the Health Committee examined and discussed the Food Bill, No 702-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 September 2017. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Tsvetan Dimitrov Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health, NGOs and branch organizations. The bill and its motives were presented by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Mr. Dimitrov pointed out as a basis for the preparation of a new Draft Food Law the numerous amendments made under the current Food Act 1999 as well as the changes in European and Bulgarian legislation. Highlights on the new developments of the Bill, namely the introduction of procedures for registration or approval of food production, processing and distribution sites; the establishment of a public national register of business operators and bottled natural mineral and spring waters and of a public register of food placed on the market. The main requirements for packaging, labelling and advertising of foodstuffs are laid down, and the information on food offered in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, including the information on the label, must be presented in Bulgarian. It is envisaged the introduction of an explicit prohibition to promote genetically modified foods and foods for which there are restrictions on use by children through advertisements and other forms of commercial communications. The conditions and arrangements for placing on the market in the Republic of Bulgaria for the first time of special-purpose foods and food supplements, conditions and procedures for carrying out food banking and food donation activities shall also be laid down. For the first time, requirements for distance or internet trade in food are laid down; registration of vehicles for the transport of food of animal origin, bread, flour, pastry and confectionery is introduced. The establishment of a permanent Advisory Council to the Minister of Health is envisaged to assist him in the implementation of his powers relating to the recognition and marketing of natural mineral and spring waters. The establishment of the National Food Council is also at stake. The opinion of the Ministry of Health was presented by the Deputy Minister - Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova. It takes the view that functions and activities overlap between the Bulgarian Agency for Food Safety and Regional Health Inspections, which, according to the Ministry, represents a burden for food chain operators and the state budget. The coverage of the activities is that the two control bodies carry out control of compliance with the requirements of the same basic legislation. (EC) No 852/2004 on food hygiene and Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 on the provision of food information to consumers. The distribution of food chain controls in both institutions is also financially ineffective with regard to laboratory food controls carried out leading to significant costs for the maintenance of laboratories with the appropriate accreditation. The opportunity to present their opinions and orally to the Health Committee was given to Mrs. Mariana Kukusheva, Chairman of the Board of the National Branch Union of Bakers and Confectioners; Mrs. Jana Velichkova, Executive Director of the Association of Soft Drink Manufacturers in Bulgaria; Mr. Vasil Stoimenov, Deputy Chairman of the Board of the Union of the Soft Industry in Bulgaria; Mr. Dimitar Zorov, Chairman of the Association of Dairy Processors in Bulgaria; Mr. Dobri Mitrev, Deputy Secretary-General of the Bulgarian Industrial Association and Master Pharmaist Svetoslav Krumov, Secretary-General of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union. On the basis of a vote on the following results, the National Assembly proposed the adoption of the Food Bill, No 702-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 September 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. And the latest report we have from a committee on this bill belongs to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Please come in, representative of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe under the Food Bill, No 702-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 September 2017. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 18 October 2017 discussed and discussed the Food Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests: Dr. Tsvetan Dimitrov, Deputy Minister, Laura Djuparova, Director of the Department of Agriculture and Forestry, Asya Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Legal Affairs, Dr. Lyubomir Kulinski, Director of the Directorate of Food Security and Food Safety and by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency: Dr. Ilian Kostov, Deputy Director of the Center for Risk Assessment of the Food Chain; by the Bulgarian Industrial Association: Dobri Mitrev Deputy Secretary; Mariana Kukusheva Chairman of the Management Board of the National Branch Union of Hlebopekars and Confectioners; Mariana Ciolakova Executive Director of the Association of Plant Oil and Oil Products; Dimitar Zorov Chairman of the Association in Bulgaria; Vassil Stoimenov The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Dimitrov. According to the importer, the aim of the proposed new Food Act is to ensure a high level of protection of the health and interests of consumers with regard to food and to ensure the application of European Union law and national food measures. The bill was drawn up with the participation of interested parties. The bill lays down competent authorities at national level and the conditions for official control of food. Procedures are provided for the registration or approval of establishments for the production, processing and distribution of foodstuffs, the basic requirements for packaging, labelling and advertising of foodstuffs are laid down. An explicit ban on the advertising of GMOs is envisaged. Long-distance food trading requirements shall be laid down and a registration regime shall be introduced for food transport vehicles. A permanent advisory council shall be established with the Minister of Health, which shall assist him in the performance of his functions relating to the placing on the market of natural mineral and spring waters. The establishment of the National Food Council is envisaged as a permanent advisory body coordinating state policy in the food sector. An increase in the amount of sanctions imposed to violate the provisions on food safety is envisaged and their amount is determined according to the degree of public danger of infringements. The Law repealed the current Law on Food and corresponding amendments to four other laws. A preliminary impact assessment has been applied to the bill, as well as the references under art. 76, para. 1 points 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The bill has been notified, according to the importer, the notes of the notification are mainly technical. According to the KRIB's opinion, the bill does not remove existing problems and discrepancies with European law and will lead to their deepening. The proposed provisions create terminological ambiguity and discrepancy with water management legislation. There is no clarity on how the welded cases will be dealt with and how the investments made by the business will be protected. The adoption of the bill will negatively affect the investment climate and will not lead to the closure of the infringement procedure against the country. The following non-compliances have also been made.. non-compliance with the requirement for prior notification of a legal text in direct connection with harmonised European law and lack of impact assessment in the bottled water part. The Association of Non-alcoholic Beverage Producers in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Industrial Association disagree with the provisions proposed in the Bill in the bottled water part. The Union of the Soft Industry in Bulgaria supports the Bill without comments. In the subsequent discussion, which was held mainly between the representatives of the branch organizations, the positions outlined above were taken. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to adopt the Food Bill, No 702-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 September 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. You have the floor to present motives to the importer. Is there anyone who will present the motives to the importers? I can't see. I am opening the debates on the submitted Food Bill. You have the floor, honourable Members, for speeches. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u25	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to start by saying that we express our positive assessment of the development of a whole new Food Law, which was proposed by the Council of Ministers. The fact is that the current Law on Food has been in force since 1999 and in this long period of time it has been harmonised, changed, agreed, but, anyway, it is difficult to reflect in the current Law the discrepancies that have already occurred with European legislation and the dynamic legislative environment in which the food problem has developed in recent years, especially by the European Commission and its legislation. From this point of view, in the Food Act, which is consistent and which many of the industry organisations have worked on, we support a large part of the proposed changes and these changes are in the direction without repeating the reports, registration for the opening of a food site, not only production, but trade, as well as distribution. We also accept the changes and proposals that are being made in connection with the registration of the means of transport, because so far this issue has not been resolved in the legislation, but it turns out that a variety of means of transport is being used precisely for the transport of food. We also support labelling as one of the elements that has a regulation on what is proposed on the Bulgarian market. Particularly for foods for which translation is needed, labelling is an important part of the information that each user seeks when it appears and goes to the store as a final user. It is also important to note that in the Food Act itself there is quite good coordination between the various departments for the purpose of the implementation of this control, which all Bulgarian consumers expect, so that on the Bulgarian market we do not have problems with the supply of goods and services. With the positive elements in the Law, which are leading and which are fundamental, for which we are accordingly expressing our support, there are many questions that I want to put and which, between first and second readings, must be in some form adjusted because there is a prerequisite for ambiguity, there is also a prerequisite for not having sufficient coordination between the various departments, which is happening now. Therefore, one of our proposals is to have a maximum length of time between first and second readings to make proposals so that really the issues and problems that we see can be resolved at this stage. First of all, the Food Act did not give us an adequate response from representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, says: "There will be regulations. What regulations? What regulations? In the current Food Act you have a labelling regulation, recorded, you have a first, second, third regulation, which is to the relevant sections. And here, in general, regulations that will be part of the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests by a regulation of the Minister or by a regulation of the Council of Ministers. That is, specifying exactly what regulations the Ministry should be committed to are a fundamental and important part that we believe must be corrected. The second question, which I also want to raise, relates to the issue of sanctions. They increase four, five, six times compared to the current sanctions, respectively these sanctions are not justified and why from 50 BGN. It's 5,000 leva. At the same time, sanctions for GMOs are reduced by 10%. That too, if you can explain why this is happening? They are high true, but why do one of the sanctions increase in times and the other ones decrease? After all, the question is that these sanctions should be objective, and that there should also be a sufficiently high collection rate, which is not a fact for the current sanctions. Perhaps the Ministry, if it manages to tell us about the sanctions that are so far in the Law, what is the collection rate, can help us to see if these sanctions will play their part accordingly. I am impressed with the legislation, especially in the field of agriculture, a constant replacement of which are the nationally represented branch organizations. In almost all laws, the tobacco law, the livestock law, we say who are nationally represented in relation to these laws, as there is no law on industry organizations and we say here that we are creating a national council that will coordinate state policy. Excuse me, fellow Members, many authorities have started coordinating state food policy at the Ministry of Food, and we are now setting up a national council here. The very motives of the Law say that all interested parties can participate in this national council. Yes, but not exactly because interested parties must meet three conditions that are cumulative. The first condition - to represent or have a turnover of what they represent, at least 50% of the goods and services. Secondly, to be at least three years registered, and the third thing that is said to have a public website, that is, there will not be enough broad representation, because the interested parties are much more than those who will be, will meet these three conditions. We believe that there is a need here to be refined from a point of view precisely of the fact that if this Council is to perform policy functions and not policy coordination, because, again, coordination is something that is already being carried out, and this Food Act also provides for such coordination, but it must be an advisory board and should give recommendations rather than coordinate. This is also a very serious concern in terms of the functions of the Council. Perhaps this is how he strives to somehow overwhelm responsibility, because if the council will coordinate, what do others do? Do they have to do it? And food is not in a situation where mistakes should and can be made so that they can then be confronted. I would like to draw attention to two new proposals in the Food Act, which are related to food supplements as a new section in the Food Act, and also to the proposal that water enter as a section in the Food Act. I listened carefully to reports from colleagues from the Economic Commission, as well as from the Health Commission, where this issue was discussed. I am under the impression that these issues have not been discussed sufficiently at the level of the Council of Ministers and between the departments, because there was indeed a fierce battle in the committees what has been notified, what has not been notified. The entire Food Law, according to the Ministry of Agriculture, has been notified, but according to one of the industry organizations in the water part there is no notification that has been made accordingly. These two issues: dietary supplements and responsibility for food supplements and the water section must be resolved, but it must be in a way in which to create prerequisites for European regulations and directives to be properly translated and, accordingly, in Bulgarian law, to find their solution. Everything else will lead to a situation in which we will have neither any regulation nor it will be at a level that will create prerequisites for any control. We believe that a new Food Law is necessary in Bulgarian legislation, but still the debates on some of the topics should continue in order to find the best solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u26	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Professor Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u27	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to a problem which has become the subject of a discussion in the Health Commission and which, I think, is particularly serious in the processing and supply of this Law, which is extremely important for the country. This is Section III, which concerns foods, and special foods, including foods that are used in intensive muscle exertion. I share this as a specialist in clinical medicine. For those of you who are not interested in this phenomenon of fitness mania, which already floods all countries in the global world, including Bulgaria, many foods and supplements are used. In some of them there are components that exceed many times dangerous and with many side effects molecules that are present in medicines that are under special control. Unfortunately, however, in Section III, art. Art. 79, Art. 78, p. 2 is listed that the competent authority for the registration and implementation of this type of food is only the director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, and in para. 10 It is only written that if necessary it can refer to other institutions. This is a matter of a very careful interaction between the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the Ministry of Health. The necessary professional adjustments must be made carefully between first and second readings in order for this Law to really be useful to our society in the direction that I am commenting at the moment to the honourable Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u28	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Mr. Zablyanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u29	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Personally, I am surprised that the discussion on such a comprehensive bill, as is the Food Act, is quite modest. If we pay attention to the volume of relations that regulates the Food Act, we will find that we are talking about a huge sector of not only trade, production, public life, the health of citizens, i.e. a law of exceptional scope. I do not believe that the topics and relations that are regulated in this bill should pass in a practical absence of discussion. If it is necessary, I am convinced of that, I will soon also point out examples from the text I have already read, if necessary, and it seems imperative to increase the time between the two amendments to the bill. I would like to draw attention to one of the aspects that I have had the opportunity to look at. It's about what's called food transportation and the registration of means of transport. Perhaps it is good in this direction to have an opinion of the Transport Committee, too, because what is being proposed... Just half an hour ago, we relieved the administrative burden on the business by removing the criminal record. If you look at the chapter in the Law on Registration of Food Vehicles, you will understand what this is about. Every vehicle that will transport food gets a sticker. The competent authority to issue the sticker shall be the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate. How does the Director of this Directorate identify what the vehicles in question look like, what criteria they meet, what foods they will carry, are there any other vehicles in the relevant commercial area of the country which, if these are not registered, can take over the commercial activity, what are the criteria by which the stickers will be distributed? On top of that, it is also envisaged that, in the event of a change in the ownership of the means of transport, it will be registered again as a means of transport that transports food. What is the relationship, honourable Members, between the change of ownership and the purpose with which the vehicle is registered? It seems to me that, as these conditions are written down, they create prerequisites for this phenomenon that we write bills about here and we often have meaningless disputes and conversations with just one requirement. I am not convinced that the Regional Directors of the Food Control Directorates may be, even though the Law makes them competent authorities competent in the real sense of the word to certify vehicles. All of you are aware that in the remote regions of the country, the border regions, small settlements, municipalities, with one means of transport is carried out transportation of food, bread, meat, often of other foodstuffs, of non-food goods. And what if they don't get the sticker? Conditions shall be established for the following: or the competent authority must close its eyes and distribute stickers, rudely speaking, in order to enable the means of transport to provide supplies, or if it applies the criteria that will most likely be scheduled, whole areas of the border and other settlements to be left without supplies. I therefore call on when we adopt laws and prepare the bills, apart from the current European requirements, apart from the legal and unlawful opinions that are expressed in the discussions, I suggest in some way that the real situation of one or another sector of public and economic life in the country be taken into account, because we ourselves create conditions for phenomena that we then try to cross in some way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u31	We in the group of the United Patriarchs will support the Food Act. We have one remark to make between first and second readings. It concerns art. 79, para. 10, which describes the procedure under which control of food supplements is carried out at their first registration. We would like, as in the previous application of the Law, to refine the texts and to clarify how, in what way, clearly and precisely, the chemical composition of the additives is checked, whether it corresponds to what is written in the certificates? And this should not happen if necessary, but in another type of procedure, which we are about to specify between the two readings, so as not to allow food supplements to enter the market and then be monitored by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests. We will want the Ministry of Health, which has the appropriate equipment and capabilities, to monitor the quality of food supplements and their composition, which is supplied on the market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Replies to Mr. Petrov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Rykoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we are looking at a long-awaited bill that has been preparing for about a year and a half with the participation of business representatives and industry organizations. In the philosophy of the Bill stands the health of the people. It aims to ensure a high level of consumer health and security in terms of food. Next is the application of European Union law and national food measures and the reduction of the grey sector in the preparation, processing and distribution of food. As mentioned by the Pre-speakers, the Bill lays down the competent authorities at national level and the conditions for carrying out official controls on food. These are the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and Regional Health Inspections at the Ministry of Health. The Bill provides for the preparation of procedures for registration and approval of food processing, production and distribution enterprises. In addition, a register is intended to be drawn up to be national and public, for all business operators and approved or registered undertakings. One of the main things in the Bill is the regulation of the basic requirements regarding packaging, presentation, labelling and advertising of food, and business operators are obliged to label these foods in accordance with the requirements of Regulation 1169 of the European Parliament and of the Council, 2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. One of the things that are included in these texts is the explicit prohibition of advertising genetically modified foods and foods for which restrictions are introduced for the use of persons through advertisements and other inscriptions and actions. Here is the point to note that there is something new in this Bill that we have so far lacked in legislation, namely regulation of the trade in food at a distance. This is very important because over the past few years we have all seen how this kind of trade is constantly accompanies our daily lives. These texts enable all business operators who are willing to develop such trade to be governed by the requirements of this Law and, accordingly, all consumers who are willing to make online purchases by the relevant business operators through the texts of this Law. For the first time, the Law regulates food from banking and the free supply of food. Food banking is a mechanism for the reception, storage and provision of food products by non-profit legal entities for public benefit in order to provide food assistance to those in need. As mentioned earlier, registration of means of transport is also introduced, which transport not only food of animal origin but also food of non-animal origin, namely: flour, bread and bakery products, confectionery. When transporting these products so far, the means of transport have not been registered. Last but not least, the Bill also provides for an increase in sanctions imposed for violations of food safety legislation. Under European law, sanctions imposed by the competent authority in the event of non-compliance with the regulatory requirements must be effective and thus the infringements in order to have a deterrent effect. The current sanctions have also been introduced in 1999. They have been changed several times, but their size is not consistent with the danger to which the relevant infringement leads. I stick to the colleagues who spoke before me that, between the first and second review of the bill, the deadline should be maximum given that there may be some texts that need to be properly refined. I sincerely hope that the implementation of the Bill will achieve the set results and hence increase efficiency in terms of official controls on food safety and consumer security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Rykov. Any lines to Mr. Rykov's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote the Food Bill, No 702-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers, on 26 September 2017. They voted 132 MPs: for 102, against 1, abstention 29. The proposal is accepted, and with this the Law at first reading. Mr. Rykoff's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly the period between the first and second reading of the Food Bill shall be maximum, up to three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u36	Thank you, Mr. Rykoff. I put to the vote Mr. Raykov's procedure for maximum extension of the period between first and second readings for the Food Bill. Vote 128 MPs: for 127, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u37	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, since we started with a procedure regarding the period of drafts, I propose that the time limit for proposals between the first and second reading for the yesterday's, on 25 October, the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, at first reading, be the maximum possible according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u38	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 129 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to item five on the agenda: PROJECTS FOR CHANGES TO RESPONSIBILITIES. Importer Mr. Krasimir Velchev. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition and management of the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Spas Georgiev Gurnevski as Vice-President of the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics. 2. He elected Ivan Stefanov Valkov as a member of the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Please vote. Vote 112 MPs: 89 against 11, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the Commission on the policies of Bulgarians abroad The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Evgeni Genchev Budinov as a member of the Commission for the policies of the Bulgarians abroad. Please vote. They voted 116 MPs: for 101, against 6, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION a change in the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska as a member of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. 2. He elected Ivan Stefanov Valkov as a member of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Please vote. They voted 121 MPs: 106, against 5, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Spas Georgiev Gurnevski as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. 2. He elected Evgeni Genchev Budinov as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. Please vote. They voted 121 MPs: 113 against 3, abstention 5. The offer is accepted. Last one: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Defence Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev as a member of the Defence Committee. We vote. They voted 130 MPs: 118, against 3, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL AND LOCAL MATERIAL. Importer: Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017 I give the floor to a colleague from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Here you are, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u39	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to make a proposal for admission to the House of Atanas Dobrev.. Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u40	We are voting on the motion for admission in this House. They voted 118 MPs: 114, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guest to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u41	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on sowing and planting material, No 702-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 11 October 2017, discussing the quoted bill. In the meeting of the Commission took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, Dr. Tsvetan Dimitrov, Deputy Minister; Asya Stoyanova, Director of the Directorate of Legal and Diana Fileva, Chief Legal Consult in the same Directorate. From the Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and semecontrol: Bistra Pavlovska Executive Director. Representatives of branch and non-governmental organizations were also present. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Dimitrov, who stressed that it aims to reduce the administrative burden by optimizing some administrative services and dropping some of the required documents. In addition to the Law on Planting and Planting Material, amendments to eleven other laws are being made with the Law. The Law on Planting and Planting Material provides that documents for obtaining permission to carry out a Polish inspection in the certification of certain categories of seed may be submitted in writing, electronically or through a licensed postal operator. The authorisation regime for the production, processing and marketing of seed and planting material is withdrawn. The production of seed and seed material will be able to carry out persons registered as farmers and concluded a contract with the certificate holder where the variety is protected. The executive agency by variety testing, acrobation and semecontrol will maintain on its website a public national electronic register of persons who trade in seed and seed material. The order of registration will be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. The period of the certificates issued for vine planting material and the prohibition to trade after the expiry of the certificate shall be removed. In the Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks, the section regulating the right to new planting is removed. The need to submit a payment document when payment is made electronically shall be removed. In the Forests Act, the need to submit an opinion by the relevant regional forestry directorate, which accompanied the request for prior coordination when establishing a right to construction and when establishing a waitout for land properties in the forestry areas, is removed. The prior coordination with the relevant regional forest directorate of the sketches or sketches-project of the property in the event of the establishment of a right of use and in the event of a change of land use up to 50 acres, which are not public property. Some of the documents that the branch organizations submit for registration in the register, maintained in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The Plant Protection Act proposes that the public registers of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency should be united in a National Electronic Register and the content and order of its conduct will be laid down in a regulation of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The Wildlife Hunting and Conservation Act proposes that the application for the construction of enclosed areas may be submitted in writing, electronically or through a licensed postal operator. A number of documents will be received by official means. The register of tickets issued by the Forest Executive Agency will become a public national electronic register and will be available on the Agency's website. The Law on the Implementation of the Common Organisation of the Markets in Agricultural Products of the European Union repealed the requirement to provide a copy of the registration under the EIC/BULSTAT for the persons registered under the Bulgarian legislation. The Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land is proposed for the construction or extension of sites on agricultural land of the first to sixth category, for which at least two sites or routes are defined, the sites shall be determined not by a preliminary design of a detailed construction plan, but by sketches or sketches-projects accompanied by coordinates of the fractures. The requirement of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre office to provide identifiers for newly formed properties is dropped when the decision to change the purpose is for part of the property. Building permits can be granted without crossing borders. The approval of the detailed design plan for the designated site or parcel plan under the Law on Construction in the Area is proposed only after the entry into force of the decision to validate a final site or route. Some of the documents are dropped on receipt of a decision to change the purpose of agricultural land. The decision will not be cancelled when the fee for changing the purpose of public and municipal needs is not paid within three months. It is proposed that, where the execution of an investment intention cannot be carried out due to the prohibition imposed by a regulatory or administrative act, the decision to change the purpose to be cancelled at the request of the owner of the land or the investor of the site and the fee paid shall be reimbursed. The Commission on Agricultural Land will not discuss and give opinions on requests for draft development plans when land from the State Land Fund is concerned. In the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, the procedure for scrapping permanent crops is dismissed. In the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act, some of the documents available on a service-based basis required to issue permits for the industrial processing of tobacco and for the production of tobacco products are dropped. In the Veterinary Activity Act, the requirement to present a copy of the diploma and a certificate of membership in the Bulgarian Veterinary Union of veterinarians in the registration of the veterinary establishment is removed. The following documents shall also be reviewed for the registration of owners or users of establishments; for the registration of means of transport for the transport of raw materials and food of animal origin; for the registration of traders who receive consignments, animals and products of animal origin; for the registration of establishments for the production, trade and placing on the market of raw materials and foodstuffs of animal origin not intended for human consumption; for the entry in the register of producers and traders of means of identification of animals; for the approval of embryo and egg production and storage teams; for the authorisation of animal testing; for authorisation for the use of animal by-products; for the authorisation of production, use licence and marketing license with IMP; for the issue of an animal transport licence. The register of independent accredited laboratories for the examination of raw milk is removed from the livestock law. In the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, some of the following documents are dropped: recognition of organisations of fish producers and other aquatic organisms; recognition of branch organisations; authorisation for business fishing; registration of individuals who breed and grow fish and other aquatic organisms; registration of a first sale centre and registration of registered buyers engaged in first sale of fishery products outside registered centres. In the subsequent discussion the MPs from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria....................................... have said that they will refrain from supporting the bill, as they believe, along with the changes related to the reduction of administrative burden and optimization of administrative services, there are a number of proposals in the bill that they find disturbing and which need much more careful consideration. Following the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 11 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u42	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Professor Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A change is proposed in twelve now in force law. The aim of the Ministry is to facilitate administrative procedures in terms of business. This is an objective that anyone would accept when it is given the opportunity to ease the administrative procedures and the introduction of registers by electronic means - activities that otherwise make it difficult for them to carry out when this happens on the spot. However, when there are proposals in these 12 laws that are very far from the set goal, we must look for opportunities to correct and eliminate them, because they are not well-founded enough and can create the exact opposite precedent. I will not go into each of the bills exactly what problems we have seen outside of the tasks placed in the motives of the importers, I would just like to draw your attention to the proposals in several bills. First, in the Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks. With great amazement, I found that a whole section of the Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks is being removed, which refers to the right to new planting of vineyards. What's this about? Bulgaria has a programme related in the field of wine-growing. Until last year, the vine and wine executive agency was selling replanting rights. With the change or with the cancellation of this text, or of this section, it means that from now on we cannot in any form create new vineyards. This is something that no European regulation has laid down to say that we are joining or sticking to European regulations. The question is extremely serious and I want between first and second reading the competent representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to explain why they propose and why we have such a policy in terms of wine-growing in the country, one of the sectors in the food industry, which has shown significant growth in particular in recent years? I also can't explain why the Forests Act eliminates coordination when establishing waitresses and changing ownership at all from regional forest managements. So far, they have coordinated every single procedure, for example, when establishing a right to construction. Now the Regional Forest Directorates say: "You just mind your own business. Stay there. Control or do whatever you want, but you will not interfere in cases where forest territories are redeployed. Another thing that I am impressed with is a change in the law on ownership and use of agricultural land, although this bill is about to be viewed at second reading, we say the following: in the reasons of the importers it is said that in the scrapping of permanent crops no longer requested permission from the Ministry. This is a procedure that concerns not only permanent crops but also hydromeliorative plants, but also rice fields. Since it is assumed that this is an investment, this investment must be protected and therefore a special procedure is signed in the Law where, if you want to scrap a facility when you have to comply with the requirements of the Ministry regarding their management, the Ministry of Agriculture will give its competent opinion. The Law now states that permanent crops are dropping out. I have one such hypothesis: if in Sapard, in the first programming period, permanent crops were created and now the owner decides that he is simply giving up on them, how do we proceed in this way? Investments made on land must be protected and it is necessary to have control and also the manner of management to be in the prerogatives of the Ministry of Agriculture. This is what we hold, and we believe that also in the Bill does not alleviate the administrative procedure, will create domination. Lack of control means that everyone can do whatever they want, including investments that have been received with European funds. I will not dwell on the other laws, which also offer quite strange proposals in the Agricultural Land Conservation Act again have some contradictions in the proposals and they are related to problems that were discussed perhaps two or three months ago. There, too, a careful look is needed at how the earth is controlled accordingly and what claims we will have to the committees that carry out this work. From this point of view, these arguments for us are sufficient grounds to abstain from the adoption of this Bill, but between first and second readings we will actively participate in proposals which, accordingly, create prerequisites for the Bill to meet the objective for which it was created, i.e. reducing the administrative burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Dear colleagues, if you have any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Dear colleagues, I will take this opportunity to congratulate the students from the school. Welcome! We wish them to be alive and well and still smiling with a happy path in life. Welcome back, one more time! If you please, a voting regime on the bill. They voted 122 MPs: 80 against 4, abstention 38. The motion is accepted. Procedure? Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I request a procedure to extend the maximum period by three weeks to the newly adopted Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u46	We are voting on the proposal made. They voted 129 MPs: 122, none, abstention 7. The offer is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u47	Colleagues, we move on to the next item on the agenda: THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS. Following is a report from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u48	Thank you, Madam President. If I may, a procedure before that. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Staff Regulations to be admitted Angel Popov Deputy Minister of Transport, Krasimira Stoyanova Director of the Legal Department in the Ministry of Transport, and Dimitar Dimitrov, acting director of the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u49	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guests. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u50	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 702-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 11 October 2017, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications was discussed, No 702-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Dimitar Genovski, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mrs. Andreana Atanasova and Mrs. Irina Romanska, members of the Communications Regulation Commission, and Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The bill was presented by Mr. Dimitar Genowski. Mr. Genovski stressed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications (ECJ) was drawn up in fulfillment of the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria as a Member State of the European Union to introduce measures to bring the Bulgarian legislation into line with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 531/2012 on roaming in public mobile communications networks within the Union Regulation (EU) No 531/2012, as last amended by Regulation (EU) 2017/920 of 17 May 2017. The need to amend the Law arises from the entry into force of 15 June 2017 of provisions of Regulation (EU) No 531/2012 introduced by its amendment by Regulation (EU) 2015/2120 laying down measures on access to open internet and amending Directive 2002/22/EC on universal service and consumer rights in relation to electronic communications networks and services and Regulation (EU) No 531/2012 on roaming in public mobile communications networks within the Union. The changes to the LEC are related to the provision of measures at national level for the implementation of the requirements of art. 18 "Sanctions' of Regulation (EU) No 531/2012, according to which the Member States of the European Union are obliged to lay down a system of penalties applicable to infringements of the Regulation and to take all necessary measures to ensure that they are implemented. The penalties provided for must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Mr. Genovski explained that sanctions for infringements of those who entered into force before 15 June 2017 and the rules of Regulation (EU) No 531/2012 are laid down in art. 334b of the Law. There are no penalties for infringements of art. 6a, 6b and 6c of Regulation (EU) No 531/2012 in force from 15 June 2017. In this regard, the penalty proposed by § 1 of the Project concerning art. 331, para. 9, it should be ensured that when applying for an authorisation for the application of overestimates under art. 6c of Regulation (EU) No 531/2012 undertakings shall not provide false information. Paragraph 2 of the Project provides for a penalty for undertakings subject to the obligations laid down in Regulation (EU) No 531/2012 for non-compliance with Art. 6a of the regulation. That Article of the Regulation provides for the elimination of retail charges for roaming as from 15 June 2017. Mr. Genovski stressed that with a high degree of public danger is also the failure to comply with the obligations under art. 6b of Regulation (EU) No 531/2012 and the rules on the application of the fair use policy laid down in Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/2286 of 15 December 2016 laying down detailed rules on the application of a fair use policy and on the methodology for assessing the sustainability of the removal of retail roaming charges and on the application submitted by the roaming provider for the purpose of that assessment. In the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications was delivered an opinion by "Telenor Bulgaria" EAD, which was presented during the discussion held after the presentation of the bill. Following the debates held on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications, No 702-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. I'm opening the debate. Statements, coworkers? I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 702-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017. Vote 109 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 1. The proposal has been adopted and, with this and the first vote, the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR AUTOMOBILITY TRANSFERS. Go ahead, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u52	Thank you, Madam President. In addition to those admitted to the hall, I suggest that Mr. Damian Voynovski be admitted to the Executive Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u53	Please vote for admission. Vote 99 MPs: 96 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please enter the guest in the hall. We are going to read the report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Here you go. Here you go, Mrs. Gancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u54	Madam President, colleagues, I give your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act, No 702-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 October 2017. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 18 October 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act was discussed, No 702-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 October 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev and Mr. Angel Popov Deputy Ministers of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; and Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova Director of the Department of Legal Affairs in the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, as well as representatives of industry organizations in the field of taxi transport of passengers. The bill was presented by Mr. Angel Popov. The bill lays down the terms and conditions for the extension of the validity of the driver of a light taxi car certificates for a new period of 5 years. According to importers, the proposed change aims to alleviate the conditions for charging, with the extension of the validity of the certificate being carried out without an examination, provided that an application for the issue is submitted within 14 days prior to the expiry of the certificate for the driver of a light taxi. During the debates on the Draft Law by the representatives of the branch organizations expressed their support for the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Road Transport, and made proposals to improve individual texts from it. It was argued by importers that the main objective of the Bill was to provide speed in providing the administrative service and to alleviate 70 thousand for the extension of the validity of the driver's certificates. drivers with already issued certificates so that they are not obliged to submit all the documents required upon initial issue of the certificate, including re-take an examination. The discussion was attended by the MPs: Andon Donchev, Spas Panchev, Pavel Hristov and Georgi Svilenski. Following the debates held on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Road Transport Act, No 702-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 October 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u55	Thank you, dear Mrs. Gancheva. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we are looking at an amendment in the Car Transport Act and this Law was adopted two years ago here in this Chamber, with the majority of then GERB and Reformist Block. I will allow myself to say what this is about, as much of the MPs were not familiar at the time. Then, if you remember, in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, these changes were proposed and adopted, which colleague Stanislav Ivanov is now trying to change.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u57	But it's not me, the Council of Ministers is an importer! You're mistaking the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u58	No, I'm not wrong about the bills. I know whose idea it is. Importer is the Council of Ministers, you're right, Mr. Ivanov. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u59	Mr. Ivanov, please don't engage in dialogue!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u60	Let's not get into discussion. It is a question, honourable Members, when two years ago we said that, as of 31 December 2017, permits were leaked in order to introduce transparency in road transport in taxi transports, to know which driver runs which car, which company runs which car and what taxes, most importantly, are paid. Two years after these deadlines have been set, two years after the Law has been implemented, we come to the fact that one by one we will then have to cancel the provisions adopted. And the first thing that's now being proposed to cancel, that's taking an exam. Even then, we, our parliamentary group, stated that this Law would create problems, that this Law would bring out all taxi drivers on the street to strike. And this will happen because you made this Law work only for the car rental companies, for the companies that give taxi cars under rent, but not for the drivers who perform this activity. These drivers sleep in cars so they can pay the rents of so-called big companies. These drivers are obliged to do all kinds of violations of all the legislation so that they can make that money and, consequently, we come to the fact that they have accumulated both obligations to the state and obligations to other entities. We ask them for countless documents so that they can recover their driver's rights and after January 1st these drivers will not be able to perform their profession. And that's why one of these things is now being proposed, namely the driver's test to be dropped. We will support this amendment because it is logical. There is no way that the doctor, the lawyer, the hunter, once received a document that has such rights to use the given professions, we can make them take the taxi driver test every five years. He's got a driver's license, passed the taxi driver's test, doesn't need to appear every five years. And that was clear two years ago, Mr. Ivanov, your bill was then, which the Council of Ministers is now trying to improve.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u61	But I don't run the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u62	So, honourable Members, we will support this proposal. We continue to argue that the sector "Taxime Transport" is not regulated properly, that there should be a discussion about how this sector should function, who should control it, what the requirements should be, because to date there are still hollow companies, there are still black taxis, there is still low quality of service. And I will allow myself to propose, as in the Commission, that this bill will also be voted on in a second vote today, as it is important in terms of time limits so that drivers can renew their permits which expire at the end of December 31st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u63	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Any lines to Mr. Svilensky's statement? I can't see. Colleagues, today we have guests from the town of Ruse on the balcony. Let's greet them with welcome! [[Applause.]] Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act, No 702-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 October 2017. Voted 118 MPs: 117, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u64	Thank you, Madam President. I ask you to put the following procedural proposal to the vote, the period between the first and second reading of this Bill to be shortened to three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. There's a counteroffer from Mr. Svilensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u66	Thank you, Madam President. In the statement I made the procedural proposal, I will now repeat it. Colleagues, as you have seen, the Law was passed with a single vote, abstention. There were no statements against the texts. It's one single paragraph. And let us not once again apply procedural practice between first and second votes in an open law to insert other texts with other intentions. If anyone had intended to make other changes, the National Assembly worked every day, we met here, the Transport Commission met every Wednesday, and could have considered who had what they wanted. So I propose that the Law be voted on in a second vote, because it is vital for that 60 thousand. drivers waiting to continue their permissions. If we do not accept this Law today, they will not be able to recover the rights of taxi drivers, and from 1 January much of them will be left out of work. Indeed, my request is that you put the Second Voting Bill to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. We are voting first on Mr. Ivanov's proposal for a three-day period between the first and second reading of the bill and then we will vote on your proposal. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] All right, call off the vote. There was a first proposal from Mr. Svilensky, we will put to the vote his motion for adoption and at the second reading today on this bill. They voted 127 MPs: 44, Against 19, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u68	Thank you, Madam President. I want a re-vote procedure, and indeed, Mr. Tsvetanov, I address you, didn't I say the arguments I said were meaningful? Come on, please, let's make sure we pass the law so 60 grand can do it. Drivers from January 1 to use their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u69	Thank you, Mr. Slivensky. Please, re-vote procedure. They voted 130 MPs: 45 against 47, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Ivanov's proposal that the period between first and second reading of this bill be 3 days. Vote 131 MPs: 110 against 7, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. [[Reply of MP Krasimir Yankov.]] Maybe a negative vote if you voted against it, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u70	Check it out!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u71	I believe you, there's no point in checking.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, we should also have confidence in this House, but I do not trust you with colleagues from GERB. [[(Laughter and shouting from GERB:]] You have prepared changes between first and second reading and within 3 days you are ready to make these changes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u73	It's one paragraph!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u74	Why don't you discuss it to make it accessible to everyone what you want to change to the Law?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u75	Mr. Yankov, let it be a negative vote, not a procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u76	Why didn't you suggest it at first reading? That is why I voted against that there is even a 3-day period within which you can pass amendments to the Law between first and second readings. Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u77	Oh, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u78	Parliament has rules to be followed if you want to be made public in your proposals. And not postfactum, after accepting a second reading, you do not have opponents in what you do. [[People representatives Dimitar Lazarov and Danail Kirilov want a procedure.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u79	Mr. Yankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u80	You will propose changes that will correct your mistake most likely, but you do not want this to be known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u81	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Kirilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u82	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u83	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u84	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Firstly, I object to the possibility of a negative vote after we have taken a procedural vote. According to the regulations, we don't have that option. But please, when a MP against the Rules of Procedure explains that it is normal that the exception should become a rule not to apply this, to strongly object and to appeal for compliance with the Rules. [[Applause and excitement by GERB.]] We read art. 83, which says the term must be at least 7 days, only exceptionally can be reduced to 3 days, and you say no time limit. This is the exception that cannot become a rule, and that is precisely how you are actually taking away the possibility of a normal legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u86	The plenary room decides.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u87	I'll take a note...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u88	Now that's a comrade fire.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u89	...and next time I'll be sharper in my remarks to colleagues. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MOVEMENT IN THE ROADS. Importers are Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs, 4 October 2017. Here you are, Mr. Letifov, to present the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u90	Thank you, Madam President. I shall make a procedure for admission in plenary on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly of Mr. Angel Popov Deputy Minister, Mr. Voynovski, Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova and Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov. They're all admitted at the front of the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u91	They're here in the room, we voted on the front. So go on with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u92	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 754-01-68, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 4 October 2017. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 20 October 2017, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Traffic Act No 754-01-68 was discussed, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 4 October 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Angel Popov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Damian Voinovski, Secretary General of the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration and Commissioner Boyko Ranovski. The draft legislation introduces the requirements of Directive 2014/45/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on periodic tests for the testing of the performance of motor vehicles and their trailers and repealing Directive 2009/40/EC. The proposed changes provide for the technical performance certificates to be recognised each other in cases of re-registered by another Member State of the European Union, a vehicle. The Bill also sets out texts according to which registration of a vehicle will be officially terminated when, during a periodic technical examination, dangerous technical malfunctions are detected. The registration of the vehicle will be automatically restored after a successful technical examination has been carried out. Another modification is intended to record the readings of the mileage meter of the vehicle at each technical inspection. It is also proposed that, when transferring the ownership of the motor vehicle with a written contract, the indication of its mileage on the day of sale should be indicated. In this respect, penalties are also provided for to be imposed on a person who manipulates and/or alters the indications of the mileage of the motor vehicle. Directive 2014/45/EU contains requirements for the passing of additional periodic technical examinations when certain circumstances occur in order to increase the safety of vehicles. A new article shall be created in this regard. 147a, which provides for additional technical examinations to be carried out in the case of: temporary braking due to a technical failure occurring after an accident and affecting some of the following essential elements relating to vehicle safety; running gear, suspension, steering and braking systems, active and passive safety system; modification of vehicle structure relating to vehicle safety or environmental protection or change in its category. Changes are also proposed with a view to strengthening the subsequent control over the operation of control stations, the control authorities will be able to carry out re-tests on vehicles. The bill regulates the implementation of the exchange of information between the Ministry of Interior and the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration. Another substantial change proposed by the Bill relates to the unification of the mode of operation of an additional training for drivers of motor vehicles with the mode of operation of a theoretical and practical training of candidates for the acquisition of a driving licence. According to importers, given the fact that the two regulatory regimes are very similar, it is appropriate to bring them together in a single regime, which will lead to a reduction in the regulatory burden for business. The representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications spoke in support of the bill. On the part of the Ministry of Interior, it was stated that they support the proposal for amendments to the Road Traffic Act, and between its first and second votes will make concrete proposals to improve certain provisions of it. During the discussion Mr. Svilenski raised the question to the importers about the necessity and urgency of the bill. People's representatives Stanislav Ivanov, Yordanka Fikirliyska, Nikolay Tishev, Lalo Kirilov, Dimitar Danchev took part in the debates. Following debates on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 9 votes................................................................................ and 3 votes..................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. The report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order follows. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u94	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I suggest to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 754-01-68, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 4 October 2017. At its regular meeting held on 18 October 2017, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 754-01-68, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 4 October 2017. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister Krassimir Tzipov, and Tihomir Todorov Inspector in the Department of Road Police. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Stanislav Ivanov. In his statement, he noted that the proposed amendments to the Road Traffic Act were related to the introduction into the Bulgarian legislation of the requirements of Directive 2014/45/EU and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on periodic tests for the testing of motor vehicles and technical trailers and for the repeal of Directive 2009/40. The main changes are related to the mutual recognition of the EU-wide technical performance certificates with the official cessation of the registration of the vehicle in case of technical failure, with the establishment of the vehicle's mileage manipulation. In addition, the Bill also provides for an extension of the scope of vehicles subject to periodic technical review. The scope of vehicles checked shall be extended to the most risky groups: road users; two-wheel and three-wheel vehicles and high-speed tractors. Technical examinations will also cover scooters and vehicles for attraction purposes. The bill introduces technical examinations, not depending on the type of vehicle, but depending on its category. Additional technical examinations shall also be regulated in cases of temporary suspension of the vehicle due to a technical failure occurring after an accident when changing the design of the vehicle relating to safety or environmental protection or a change in its category. The main objective of the Directive and of the Draft Law is to carry out effective controls on persons authorised to carry out periodic technical examinations. For this purpose, it is envisaged the establishment of a special supervisory authority which is given the opportunity to control the authorities to carry out re-checks of the technical malfunction. The exchange of information between the Ministry of Interior and the Executive Agency of the Automobile Administration for the registration of road vehicles and the periodic reviews for technical failure will be carried out electronically. There's also a fine on a person who manipulates the mileage. The proposed amendments and additions are a response to the increasing number of victims of a road accident, as well as an increase in the responsibilities of persons who manage technically incorrect road vehicles, conduct technical inspections or carry unsupported goods in violation of the Law. Changes related to the reduction of the regulatory burden on business are also envisaged. On behalf of the Ministry of Interior Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov expressed support for the bill. Members of the National Assembly participated in the debates: Stanislav Vladimirov and Tsvetan Tsvetanov. It was noted that it was imperative to adopt a new Road Traffic Act. The representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications have assured that three new laws are being prepared. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 9 votes for the Council, without the opposition, and 4 votes for abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Road Traffic Act, No 754-01-68, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 4 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Colleagues, it's 11:30. The next report is from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds after the break. Half an hour off. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u96	Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing our work. Following is a report by the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act. Here you are, Mr Vigenin, to present the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u97	Thank you, Madam President. I am making this effort for my fellow Members in this House right now. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 754-01-68, submitted by Stanislav Stoyanov and a group of MPs on 4 October 2017. At its extraordinary meeting held on 18 October, 2017 the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds (KEVKEF) examined the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Road Traffic Act No 754-01-68, submitted by Stanislav Stoyanov and a group of MPs. The bill was presented by Mr. Stanislav Ivanov. The meeting was also attended by Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of the Interior, Commissioner Boyko Ranovski, Head of the Department of the Road Police and the Directorate of the Directorate General of the National Police and Mr. Petar Toshkov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The draft was voted at a regular Commission meeting held on 25 October 2017. The draft provides for amendments to the requirements of Directive 2014/45/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on periodic tests for the verification of the technical performance of motor vehicles and their trailers and repealing Directive 2009/40/EC (Directive 2014/45/EU). According to the reasons under the Bill, the technical certificates will be mutually recognised in the event of re-registered vehicles already registered in another Member State. In addition, citizens who change their place of residence within the European Union will benefit from this new requirement, which supports the principle of free movement within the European Union. Mutual recognition of technical certificates will be arranged through the proposed amendment of art. 100, para. 1, t. Art. 6 and Art. 6 140, para. 2 of the Road Traffic Act. The scope of the previous Directive 2009/40/EC on performance tests for motor vehicles and their trailers included passenger cars, buses and freight vehicles and their trailers. In Directive 2014/45/EU, the scope of the vehicles examined is extended to the most risky group of road users, both two-wheel and three-wheel vehicles and high-speed tractors, of tractors with a maximum speed of more than 40 km/h. These categories of vehicles are currently excluded from the verification obligation under European Union legislation. Taking into account the importance of road safety, the procedure for carrying out periodic technical examinations on both two-wheel and three-wheel vehicles and high-speed tractors shall be laid down. In relation to art. 2, § 3 of Directive 2014/45/EU, technical examinations will also cover scooters and attraction vehicles. Fire control vehicles shall be excluded from the checks on the basis of art. 2, Paragraph 2, third indent of the Directive. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Madam President, may I have your order in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u98	Honourable Members, please respect the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u99	In accordance with the current legal framework, the technical examinations shall be carried out depending on the type of the motor vehicle. With the change of art. 147, para. 3 of the Road Traffic Act shall be regulated to carry out the technical examinations according to the category of the vehicle. This amendment is related to the requirements of art. 5, § 1 of Directive 2014/45/EU. With regard to the frequency of carrying out the reviews in relation to art. 5, § 3 of Directive 2014/45/EU, in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, set time limits for carrying out technical examinations, not exceeding the intervals laid down in art. 5, § 1 of Directive 2014/45/EU. The Directive contains requirements for the passage of additional periodic technical examinations in the event of certain circumstances in order to increase the safety of vehicles. A new article shall be created in this regard. 147a, which provides for additional technical examinations in certain cases. One of the objectives of the Directive is to ensure the maintenance of high quality technical examinations over time and, in this regard, Member States should establish a quality assurance system covering the processes of granting, supervision, withdrawal, suspension or revocation of the authorisation to carry out the tests to verify the technical performance. In this regard, it is envisaged that persons authorised to carry out periodic technical examinations be subject to supervision by a supervisory authority and this shall be regulated by supplementing art. 148, creating new paragraphs 17, 18 and 19. Amendments are also proposed to strengthen the subsequent control over the operation of control stations, such as by changing art. 166, para. 2 of the Road Traffic Act will be given the possibility for the control authorities to carry out re-tests on vehicles. Amendments to the Law on the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria to transpose Directive 2014/47/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the technical roadside inspection of the working conditions of commercial vehicles moving within the Union and repealing Directive 2000/30/EC shall be imposed. In accordance with the same rules and as a response to the increasing number of victims of road accidents, this Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act is drawn up. The bill also provides for the introduction of effective measures against persons who manage technically incorrect road vehicles or carry unsupported goods in violation of the requirements laid down in the Road Traffic Act. The existing legislation relevant to the technical condition of road vehicles is affected by the proposed amendments and additions to the provision of art. 101 of the Road Traffic Act, as well as the creation of points 68, 69 and 70 in para. 6 of the Additional Provisions of the Law. The proposed changes to the provision of art. 101 of the Road Traffic Act derive from the classification of types of technical malfunctions provided for in Directive 2014/47/EU. The cited paragraphs 68, 69 and 70 contain the legal definitions of the three clearly defined technical requirements..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It should be noted that with the amendment of art. 155, para. A technical error made in transposing Directive 2006/126/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 October 2006 on driving licences shall be corrected. During the subsequent discussion, Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, expressed support for the submitted Bill, explaining that the Ministry of Interior has several concrete proposals to refine some of the paragraphs of the Bill that will be presented to the leading Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Mr. Angel Popov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, also expressed support for the proposed amendments to the Road Traffic Act. The MP Mr. Ivan Ivanov explained that he was reserved for the Bill and noted that the proposed amendments change the whole Law. He recalled that an opinion was expressed by representatives of the Ministry of Interior on the need to draw up an entirely new regulatory act and to examine it by the end of the year. Mr. Ivanov also requested a reference on the extent of transposition of European legislation. He was interested in the extent to which the submitted bill transposes directives and what part of the texts are copyrighted by the MPs. Mr. Stanislav Ivanov replied that the existing Law on Road Traffic in the future will be divided into three separate laws. This will lead to fewer changes in the Road Traffic Act, as technical reviews are planned to become part of the Car Vehicles Act and the Service Act. Mr. Stanislav Ivanov explained that the correlation table was provided to the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria and the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The Chair of the KEVKEF noted that a correlation table must be provided to all the committees to which the bill is allocated. He also noted that he has repeatedly stressed the need for draft laws that introduce European legislation to be imported by the Council of Ministers, because whenever imported by MPs, a correlation table is missing. In addition, it has become a practice around European legislation to push through a number of other changes. In the case of changes, there is nothing urgent and can wait for the drafting of the new law, which according to the management of the Ministry of Interior is already under preparation. The sitting of KEVKEF was closed and the vote on the proposed bill was postponed for the next sitting. At the meeting held on 25 October, the President of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds announced that a correlation table had not entered and then started voting. As a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 5 votes in favour, without votes against" and 2 votes abstention" of the National Assembly to adopt at first vote a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Road Traffic Act, No 754-01-68, submitted by Stanislav Stoyanov and a group of MPs on 4 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u100	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Do the importers wish to present the reasons for the bill? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u101	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I'll try to be as brief as possible in presenting the motives. The bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act has been submitted by me and a group of MPs in order to shorten the approval procedures of the various ministries of the respective Law. I'm saying this so I don't have to ask questions about why we're rushing him and why we're bringing him in. The second thing I want to say to be as honest as possible is why we import it and why we rush it. Honourable Members, we are in a hurry to this Bill because from 1 January 2018 the single electronic sticker for cars, past technical examinations must be introduced. These stickers are unified. There will be no longer two stickers, as it is now, one issued by the DMV for an initial review, and a second sticker for the annual technical review, and there will be a single sticker. It is our duty to introduce this from 1 January 2018. This is one reason why we are hurrying this bill. The second reason is that from May 2018, requirements for the annual technical examinations must be introduced. These requirements are extremely important and must be introduced as of May next year. These are the two reasons why we are in such a hurry with this Bill. With regard to the bill itself, its main objectives became clear from the reports. This is the mutual recognition of technical certificates. They'll recognize each other from each member state. That's one of them. The second is the official suspension of the registration of a road vehicle in case of technical malfunctions. We're talking about malfunctions that will be dealt with in a regulation. There will be recorded any malfunctions which may cause the registration to be terminated. This registration will then be restored by official means. Sign up the mileage statement. What's this about? You know that there is a directive which was adopted thanks to the MEPs from the political party GERB and the European People's Party. It's about what's called the speeding of the mileage. How are we going to prevent this? One way is that during the annual technical examinations there will be an obligation to record the mileage as well as the purchase and sale contracts will have to record the indications of the mileage of the vehicles for which the ownership is transferred. The fourth thing is the extension of the scope of vehicles which are subject to periodic technical examinations. It's about two- and three-wheel motor vehicles and tractors moving at over 40 km/h. In general, these are the main things that we aim to change with this bill. I believe that they are extremely important and should be supported by everyone in this House if we want to continue to fight against road aggression if we want to continue the fight to preserve people's lives and health on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u102	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I'm opening the debate. Dear colleagues, speeches? Mr. Letifov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, I am in a hurry to say that we will not support the proposed bill and I will tell you why. Not because there is no sense in what is being proposed, on the contrary, all that Mr. Ivanov listed in the proposals for the Law on Road Traffic is very important, very meaningful but not timely. Once again, the changes to the Road Traffic Act are being made in a piece, once again the 70th time, and I do not remember which time the Road Traffic Act is changing, while we expect the new Road Traffic Act. A few questions arise here: why is a directive so important and meaningful, which was adopted three or four years ago, we introduce it at the last possible moment? We had to hold an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications so that it could enter the plenary at first reading this Amendment and Supplement Act. A directive so important is actually so late. The second issue, which is also important: why such an important change, which concerns half the technical legislation relating to cars in the Ministry of Interior, in transport, is introduced by MPs and is not imported by the Council of Ministers, where this is uniform. Mr. Ivanov, you said: the deadline is 1 January 2018, when a single electronic sticker should be introduced. At the same time, the Ministry of Interior has ordered stickers for 2018, which do not meet the requirements of the Directive............................................................................................................... lv. There is a procedure, a public contract for stickers for 2018, 2019 and 2020, which is for another 1 million. $800,000. BGN, if I'm not mistaken. Why this reaction in institutions? Why didn't the Council of Ministers take one single action and solve this case once and for all? Yes, the directive is good, the proposals, the texts are good, but the way in which this is done speaks of a lack of hibernation, irresponsible attitude towards the victims of the road. Here the question is about the change in EC-1/EC-2, if I am not mistaken, about two-wheel and three-wheel motor vehicles. We need to give one more answer, colleagues. What do we do with bikers or bikes? There is also a requirement for them how they should look to get on the road. They must have safety signs and any other elements, helmets to protect our children. Half of the bikes sold in stores do not actually meet the requirements, they are dangerous road users because they are not marked. We will not support for this reason. Power is inconvenient in the case of such an important Law. This power has no important bearing on this Law, there is no prevention that we have talked about here with Mr. Tsvetanov, against the victims on the roads. There is no prevention of child mortality on the road. Mr. Ivanov, you remember that every year one class, thirty-five children die in accidents, and over a hundred are injured. We lack prevention, we lack responsible treatment. Obviously, the step in this power, these nationalist elements, have clouded your mind and you are not acting, as they say, adequately. It's time to change the structure of this power to get into class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u104	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Is there a line to his statement? Here you are, for the first line, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u105	Thank you, Madam President. My main line is that many of the Angro you have made your statement about the victims on the road. If you are not familiar, by 2010, the victims on the roads in Bulgaria exceeded 1,000 people per year. In just three years they fell below 700 people and in the last year were 607 or 609 people. Excuse me, but all this has been done with a change in legislation, all this has been done after extremely strict measures and penalties have been put in place on the roads. I believe that bringing down a third of the victims on the road shows not only work but effective work and implementation of European legislation. Everything else is Angro's talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u106	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Second line of Mr. Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Letifov! You mentioned we were waiting for bills. Yeah, we're all talking about pending bills. These bills are currently under operation, will be three separate bills. Thanks to the fact that we divide the Road Traffic Act into three separate bills, it is no longer so often necessary to change it. What are we doing right now? When we change something with regard to drivers or their training, we change the Road Traffic Act when we change something with regard to the Law, we change it again. When we change things that concern road markings, signs, AND, PAMs, we change this Law again. Therefore, we will divide the Law into three, and thus the opposition will not point the finger at us, accusing us of changing this Law very often. In this case, I think you'll be satisfied. With regard to your latest statement on bicycles, the bicycles are not motor vehicles, therefore they cannot fall within the scope of the annual technical examinations. If an engine is installed on a single wheel or it is purchased on a motor, then it is already obliged to undergo an annual technical examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there another line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u109	Thank you. I'll answer Mr. Ivanov first. Mr. Ivanov, I did not say that bikes are road vehicles, but motor vehicles. They are road vehicles to which, I said, our attitude is lacking. They must also be monitored by who controls whether they meet the requirements and not that they are motor vehicles. I didn't say that. And I will answer to Mr. Valkov that I have not minimized what has been achieved about how reduced the number of victims has been. On the contrary, the attitude I expressed is in that direction. You misunderstand me! As of today, you are already a member of our Commission, you will also be familiar with the opinion of the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the specific ZID. I'm talking about this, not downgrading the reduced number of victims on the road. We are still the first in the European Union in number or at least leading in number of victims of road accidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u110	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will not miss to remind you that this is the seven-sedet and the ninth or eightyth amendment of the Road Traffic Act. Mr. Ivanov, if we divide the Law into six or twelve laws, maybe we can change it less. This cannot be the argument to divide the Law in order to reduce road repairs. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] That's what you said! Now, colleagues, under the bill itself. In the Commission, I asked the question: "Who wrote this bill? Why are the MPs bringing him in? " - To this question we have received an answer. But who wrote this Bill, which official from the Ministry of Transport put his signature under this Bill?? We didn't understand. [[Noise, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u112	Honourable Members, please be quiet in this Chamber!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u113	It is understandable that we will not get any answers here in this Chamber because, when there are worrying things, there is no responsible person from the administration to sign, and that is why they offer it to fellow MPs, hiding under the common irresponsibility, to drive this bill. It is said that this Bill is very important, that all deadlines have been missed and that only European directives are transposed. If it was so important, why were you waiting for November? Why didn't you bring him in September, June, April? This Directive has been adopted 2014. We are now 2018. From these four years, three and a half years he manages GERB. Why didn't you do it for four years? Why are you waiting for November 2017 to hurry with these changes? And to tell you that the changes are not just the synchronization of directives, I will use the motives of the importers. The reasons are clearly written and the changes are distributed into groups. Only in the first group there is talk of an amendment regarding the introduction into the Bulgarian legislation of the requirements of Directive 2014/53/EU. The next group has nothing to do with Directive Third group: amendments related to the reduction of the administrative burden of business Next group: amendments related to the reduction of the regulatory burden on business "nothing to do with the Directive." Where have you been for four years to offer these things, and now just because of a group that has changed in the directives, you are proposing this Bill quickly, through MPs, MPs? It is very eloquent the opinion of the Ministry of Interior and therefore there is no representative here today. If a representative had come, he couldn't have accepted that Law. Do you know how much damage will be done to the Ministry of Interior thanks to this vote we will be doing in a moment? Two million six hundred thirty-five thousand leva without VAT! This vote, which we will do in a moment and which you will accept, in just two months' time until January, will cause two million six hundred thirty-five thousand levs without VAT damage to the Ministry of Internal Affairs - an opinion signed by Mr. Krasimir Tsipov. Not by a representative of BSP from your deputy minister! Read this opinion. There are many interesting things why shouldn't these things happen! Of course, because it is imported by colleagues from GERB, it is written that they generally accept the philosophy of the Bill. Now a few things on the bill itself. It's clear you'll accept it. But you need to know what damage you're doing to the Ministry of Interior. And I'll tell you why this damage is. With the introduction of the so-called "single sticker" for a technical fitness review, the Ministry of Interior has to change all ordered so far over 500 thousand. The sticker that has them manufactured, and the one million. 200 thousand, which were ordered for the period 2018 - 2020. They were also manufactured, ordered and paid. That is, by receiving them, after the adoption of our Law, they must be scrapped, thrown into the trash and reordered new such stickers. Not to mention separately that the service that has been carried out so far at the DMV points of the Road Police is not going to be able to carry out the initial review for the simple reason that they will not have these stickers mentioned in the Bill. What's the offer? We ease the administrative burden, relieve citizens to read the laws and understand them. Look, I'm just gonna give you a few examples so I don't bore you. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100 is clearly written down what a driver should wear when they stop him on the road and ask him for the verification documents, and is recorded a sign for an initial technical examination or a certificate for a periodic technical service review. In one sentence. Of course, it's not very accurate, but that's another question. What's the offer? Now, listen up, and one of you, if you want, can clock out how long I'll be reading it. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 100, para. 1, t. 6 is amended as follows: what is to be carried out by the driver of the valid document reflecting the date of carrying out the next periodic performance test issued in accordance with Directive 2014/45/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on periodic tests to verify the technical performance of motor vehicles and heavy trailers and repealing Directive 2009/40/EC (OJ L 127, 29 April 2014) or the Agreement concerning the acceptance of uniform prescriptions for periodic technical examinations of road vehicles and for the mutual recognition of such reviews certifying that the motor vehicle which drives and draws it trailer are allowed to move on roads open to public use. Dear colleagues, have you seen a sentence clearly and accurately what the driver should wear, replaced, here, see, half page text? [[Shows.]] Is this how we will make the laws more readable, more accessible to Bulgarian citizens? The next, even more interesting, is Art. 127. The cargoes carried must read the text that is currently.... do not create danger to the participants in the movement................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2, para. 2: To be fortified and not dragged along the road. That's very clear. And look what Mr. Ivanov has to offer: in art. 127, para. 1, t. 2 is amended as follows: to be strengthened according to the requirements of one or more of the standards BDS EN 12195-1, BDS EN 12195-2, BDS EN 12/195-3 and thus to BDS EN 12642 15 standards applicable to the corresponding type of transport and to the regulation issued by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, agreed with the Minister of Interior. You can't punish the driver for not strengthening his cargo according to the BDS when you didn't see it in the study material. The problem is that you create clumsy texts, non-working texts, not to mention that this text is not about this Law. This text is about the Car Transport Act. And what Mr. Letifov mentioned. You suggest, and here I will once again ask a question to Mr. Popov because he is currently a representative of the Ministry of Transport, to go outside and explain the difference between L1 and L1e? Mr. Voynovski, of the Transport Commission, by the way, is Secretary General of the Administration, you know, colleagues, the Transport Commission reports to the Secretary-General of the Automobile Administration, does not report the Executive Director who is entitled to this right, and the Secretary-General, who takes care of the Agency's administrative management, send him to report on technical matters on a bill submitted by MPs. And now, again, I'll tell you what they said, but let them answer it. What is the difference between L1 and Le, L2 and L2e and so 15 categories are listed? You know what the difference is? L1 has been transposed into the European Directive and has become L1e. It's the same thing. However, because colleagues from the Ministry of Transport were easier to copy everything, they wrote 15 categories here to make it easier for drivers when they went to take courses when they went to take exams to make it harder for them to do other things. What Mr. Letifov said... [[Noise and lines.]] It must be made clear: bike drivers with engines or mopeds that can lift up to 45 kilometers will be going for a review. This does not say in the directive that it should be. Which directive are you synchronizing, Mr. Ivanov? Show me in the directive somewhere that the mopeds have to go to a technical examination that is up to 45 kilometers per hour. Come on, find me that directive! Come on, find that directive and let's talk then! Colleagues, the 80th Amendment to the Road Traffic Act will bring nothing better to road users. And if, Mr. Ivanov, you were concerned about stopping the aggression on the road, reducing the victims on the road, I will ask you: since 2007, the Road Traffic Act has required regulations to be adopted between the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Education. [[Noise and lines.]] Where are they? [[Heckling]] For analyzing the victims among children or a regulation between the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Transport for analyzing the victims among the new drivers, what we are talking about should be laid down. Where are these regulations? We talk about this Law only here, on Wednesday in the Commission and on Wednesday in the Chamber, and so 80 times a year, and 800 people go away from our inaction. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u114	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any lines to his statement? Here you are, Mr. Manev, for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u115	My fellow Member, I am very careful and very interested in your speech. You play with these numbers any way you want. A few minutes ago, my colleague gave a statistic: 600, God forbid, they died. You're talking about 800. Two hundred people for nothing. From then on, a piece of paper comes out here, very interesting, and you say $2 million, and I don't know how much the Ministry of Interior is losing. The numbers are a little off at the BSP, don't they? Explain to me, first of all, where... [[speaking indistinctly]] ... I'm not addressing you and I'm not insulting you! Explain to us clearly where these millions actually come from, differences in numbers, the 80th law... Come on, coordinate your numbers and then talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u116	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Mr. Ivanov's second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u117	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Svilenski, you had to concentrate on the subject of the Law, you didn't need to go all the way into the details that are the subject of the second reading, but it seems that this is how it is for you to deceive people that you understand something or do something about safety. What do I mean? Why do we divide the Law into three and not twelve to get into the specifics as you did? Because this Law covers drivers and their training, cars and road signs, marking, PAMs and ANDs. So for that reason we divide it into three. In your opinion, we could have divided it by 12, but that's your problem, you think so. The scope of the directive is very precise and clearly mentioned and each of you, colleagues, can see that from 13 or 14 points in the reasoning, more than 10 points says that Directive No one is being amended. There are no such things where Mr. Svilensky explains that there was no connection to the directive and so on. Again, some of your reasonings, which I cannot accept in any way, and they are seen by the motives themselves. Dear Mr. Svilensky, the initial review is prohibited under this directive, but you haven't read this either. The initial review has been banned under this Directive and since May next year, which I have also pointed out in the reasons, this thing will no longer be possible. What does the initial review mean? Check the engine number, measure the brakes and put the car in motion. And if after one year this car is sold in another locality, this will happen again only to check the number of the frame and brakes, and again will not pass this car for a technical examination. And for how long? So read first and then go all the way into those details. Since you haven't read it or understood it, at least don't get up. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u118	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there another line? Here you go, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Svilensky, from your last words, I've taken occasion to become that line. You said: 800 people die by our inaction. The National Assembly must not take the blame for the roadbreakers and say that we are guilty. I'm very burdened by 800 people dying because of our inaction here. I think what we're doing, the debates you're having, it makes sense to get to the most optimal, to reduce the victims on the road. That's why I spoke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u120	Thank you, Mr. Manushev. Mr. Svilensky, we're waiting for your back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u121	Thank you, Madam President. I'll start backwards from respect for Admiral Manushev. Mr. Manushev, we have to take responsibility. We will or will not. Here people have sent us to improve their standard of living and if we can reduce any of these victims. Do not take it literally, even more so, you who are not directly involved as opposed to us in the Transport Commission, but as MPs we are all responsible. Mr. Ivanov, I won't answer your line. You said you split it into three to reduce the number of amendments to the Road Traffic Act in Mr. Letifov's replica. You said it! I suggested you divide it by 12 to reduce it even further. That's it! And Mr. Manev. Mr. Manev, since the time for the duplicate is small, first of all, we are talking about numbers, not numbers, to be clear. The numbers that he will read to you, and don't accuse me of speculation, not a single word I've said here, I didn't make it all up, it's based on your documents, the opinion of the Ministry of Interior, the motives of the importers. First of all, for the 800 victims. Yeah, if it's 600, 700, 800, does it matter to you? Even if it's a hundred, it's still dangerous, you shouldn't. But should I tell you why it's 704 right now based on, like, 900 years ago? Because until five years ago, there was an infirmary register of each crash, and when it became a crash, one month later, it was being watched for the victim whether he died or not. It's been five years since we've had this thing. These are the victims only on the road, not those who then rest in health care facilities. So it doesn't matter if it's 700 or 800. Even if they are, we have a responsibility here, I say again, and we have to make sure it doesn't happen. Now for the numbers, where did they come from? According to you, the numbers, according to Minister Tzipov... I read you part of the opinion from the Ministry of Interior to the Chairman of the Transport Commission: So far, they have been manufactured and delivered to the central warehouses of the Ministry of Interior 500 thousand kits of a sign and sticker for an initial technical review, amounting to a total of 775 thousand. lv. without VAT. A procedure for the award of a new public contract with the same subject-matter covering the period 2018 - 2020 was opened for the production and delivery of a million and two hundred thousand sets of signs and a sticker for an initial technical review of a total of 1 million. Eight hundred and sixty thousand. lv. without VAT. The open procurement sets out the current models of the Ministry of Interior for sign and sticker for initial technical review. The possible acceptance of the proposed change in art. 100 will require the scrapping of the available set of sign and sticker for initial technical examination, and the procedure for the announced public procurement will have to be...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u122	Time, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u123	Thank you, Madam President. When we raise 775 thousand by 1 million. Eight hundred and sixty thousand. It's 2 million. 635,000. No VAT, Mr. Manev. [[(Voices: "Bravo!") Applause by "BSP for Bulgaria".)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u124	Are there any other statements? I don't see any demands. Does the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications wish to answer the question? ▪ You don't want to. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. We're going to vote. Here you go, Mr. Svilenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u125	You've put out a vote, Madam President!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u126	Thank you, Madam President. In the manner of conduct: why do we invite people who do not want to take sides? Why are we inviting deputy ministers here when we have questions for them? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Guys, I thought you just let them in. They insult you, too, not just us. Mr. Popov, you're a transport specialist, please explain L1 and L1e. What's the difference! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u127	Would you like the floor? I am making it clear that the President personally does not invite anyone to the Chamber. The guests are invited by voting for admission in the Chamber by the Members of the National Assembly. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u128	Good afternoon, everyone! I'm here for the first time and thank you for inviting Mr. Svilensky, especially you. You probably didn't hear Mr. Ivanov's answer. With regard to the answer I'm going to give you for the fact that the Secretary General is present, I think it's a stunt. Is there somewhere forbidden for him to attend these committees? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What question?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u129	Don't enter dialogue mode!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u130	Didn't you answer the question? You answered there is EU, there is the UN. What more do I have to say to you? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's right, of course. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What do you mean, why? Because it has to be described. Because it has to be described! And when you set out both directives, why do you think a bill should only change directives? Can't there be something new about him? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] How does Mr. Ivanov say? You're saying that if there are directives... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u131	Get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u132	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u133	Essentially what? Didn't I tell you, L1 and L1e? European Union, United Nations. Those are the requirements. That's it! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u134	What's the difference?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u135	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u136	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u137	Thank you. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski wants the floor.]] What do you want the floor for, Mr. Svilensky? [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] I'm not giving you a personal explanation because you asked...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u138	You told me I was doing it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u139	Please, Mr. Svilensky. There's no procedure you're asking for a personal explanation right now. Honourable Members, we are proceeding to a vote. Please vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 4 October 2017. Vote 147 MPs: for 89, against 48, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. You have the floor for procedure, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! I am doing a procedure to extend the deadline between the two readings of the newly adopted Bill by three weeks, as we all understand that there are a lot of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u141	A procedural proposal was made to extend the deadline by three weeks. Please vote on the procedural proposal. They voted 142 MPs: 102, against 2, abstention 38. The motion is accepted. We move to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE ROADS. Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u142	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Road Law, No 754-01-72, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 13 October 2017. At a regular meeting held on 19 October 2017, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending the Roads Act, No 754-01-72, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 13 October 2017. Mr. Nikolay Nankov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mr. Valentin Yovev, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, and Mr. Doncho Atanasov, Chairman of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. The main objective of the bill is the adaptation of the road toll system by Directive 1999/62/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, as amended by Directive 2006/38/EC and Directive 2011/76/EU. The amendment of the Law enables the maximum amount of the charge paid by heavy goods vehicles to use certain infrastructures, which is currently 11 euros, to be aligned with that of the Directive and to become 12 euros. With an increase in the amount of the fee by 1 euro on an annual basis, the increase in the revenue from daily wine charges from the heavy goods vehicles collected by the Road Infrastructure Agency is expected to be more than 2.8 million. leva. On the part of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and of the Road Infrastructure Agency was expressed strong support for the proposed change in the Law. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 17 votes...................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u143	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Following is a report from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Road Law, No 754-01-72, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and a group of MPs on 13 October 2017. At its regular meeting held on 25 October 2017, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending the Roads Act, No 754-01-72, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and a group of MPs. The bill was presented by Mr. Alexander Ivanov. This Draft Law aims to introduce in Bulgarian legislation the requirements of correcting the update of Annex II and Tables 1 and 2 of Annex IIIb as regards the applicable fees in euro in accordance with Article 10a of Directive 1999/32/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, as amended by Directive 2011/76/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council. The amendment was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 1 June 2016. The proposed changes aim to ensure compliance between the Bulgarian legislation and the European charging requirements, according to which: The daily fee is the same for all categories of vehicles and amounts to 12 euros. It is important to note that the existing European road toll system has been defined by Directive 1999/32/EC, as amended by Directive 2006/38/EC and Directive 2011/76/EU. In addition, Annex 1 to art. 1 is proposed. 10, para. 1, t. 1 of the Roads Act to be updated. It concerns the maximum rates of wine charges that road vehicles over 3,5 tonnes will pay for the use of road infrastructure. According to the reasons provided by the importer, the bill provides an administrative burden mainly for the natural and legal users of international transit traffic and will not affect those travelling daily on Republican roads. After Mr. Alexander Ivanov presented the reasons, Mr. Angel Popov Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications expressed support for the bill. The President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds noted that it was about a change of a technical nature rather. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, with 6 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on Roads, No 754-01-72, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and a group of MPs on 13 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u145	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Do the importers wish the floor to present the reasons for the bill? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! This is about amending the Roads Act, which we propose with a group of MPs, which concerns the synchronization of Bulgarian legislation with this of the European Union. Directive 62 of 1999, which has changed several times in the years to date, about the fixing of the price of day-to-day wine stickers for heavy goods vehicles above 3,5 tonnes. As from June 2016, the price of day-to-day wine stickers, which are for those over 3.5 tonnes, changed from 11 to 12 euros, the desire of colleagues from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency is to synchronise with this rate and from next year, instead of being 11 euros, as heavy goods vehicles are currently paying for one day, this fee to be increased to 12 euros. The assessment of the impact of this Bill provides somewhere around 2.8 million. lv. more revenue in the Agency, which, you understand, will go to the improvement of infrastructure. This will, of course, be until the future and so long-awaited tol system is not in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u147	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. I put to the first vote the Draft Law amending the Roads Act submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 13 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u148	They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The bill was passed at first reading. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u149	Madam President, honourable Members! I would suggest, since there are no requests for amendments to this bill between first and second readings, that we take advantage of the possibilities of our Rules and vote on it at second reading. That's my procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u150	Please vote on Mr. Veselinov's procedure. Vote 109 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the second vote a bill amending the Road Law, No 754-01-72, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and a group of MPs on 13 October 2017. [[Heckling]] Here you are, Mr. Veselinov, to read the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u151	Madam President, honourable Members! The Law on Roads Act is being amended. It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. In Annex 1 to art. 10, para. 1, t. 1 the following amendments shall be made: point 1 is amended as follows: "1." year-on-year (s) and year-on-year (Next table according to the importer's proposal.) "2." point 3 is amended as follows: "3." the maximum daily fee for the use of road infrastructure by road vehicles under art. 10a, para. 7, p. 1 and 2 is 12 euros.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u152	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. I put to the second vote the Law amending the Roads Act. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. With this, the Bill was adopted at second reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAWS FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CIVIL REGISTERATION. Importers: Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs on 6 July 2017 and Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 26 July 2017. Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u153	♪ I can't believe on a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 754-01-38, submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 28 September 2017, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 754-01-38, submitted by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs on 6 July 2017. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP, Mr Tanner Ali. The Bill proposes that copies and certificates from civil status acts should be banned from requiring personal data that have been found in the system of the Single Civil Registration and Administrative Service System of the Population, but have been deleted. There is also an obligation for the Directorate General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to carry out changes in the data contained in the EGRAON relating to deletion, respectively, to restore the names of a particular category of citizens. The Commission provides opinions from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice, which disagree with the proposed Draft. It is noted that the Act in force does not require citizens to provide personal data when issuing certificates and copies on the basis of the registers of civil status acts. The amendments to the Law in 2015 introduced an explicit ban on this by the provision of art. 42, para. 2. In this regard, the proposed provision in § 1 of the Bill is unnecessary. The proposed hypotheses for official deletion or reimbursement of names are unacceptable, and in the way in which these obligations are replaced by DG GRAO, it is not feasible. The right of name, respectively the related right to change it, is of the category of personal subjective non-material rights. The Act in force has consistently passed the principle of voluntary and freely expressed will of individuals, such as recovery or change are possible if citizens so wish. In this sense is also the provision of art. 19a of the Civil Registration Act. The law does not limit the persons in time, as in § 1b and § 17 of the Final Provisions of the Law on Civil Registration of 2015 and the questions for changing the names of the deceased are also settled. In the course of the discussion, the MPs who spoke shared some of the reasons of the importers in which they pointed out the reasons for the proposed change, but pointed out that there are different hypotheses among them and the possible official deletion and recovery of names would also affect persons who do not want such change and would be contrary to the principles of the Law. In the event of official deletion and recovery, there would also be other consequences which cannot be formally reflected in documents of a different nature of the persons concerned, on the basis of which they or their heirs draw certain rights, which would create undue difficulties for them. The General Directorate for Civil Status could not carry out official deletion and reimbursement, as the change of names was entered in the registers of the civil status acts, which are kept and maintained by employees in municipal administrations, and the entries in them can only be made by civil status officials in municipalities and mayors appointed by the mayors of municipalities. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 2 votes............................................................................ and 9 votes.................................................................................................................................................................. ♪ I can't believe on a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 754-01-48, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 28 September 2017, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 754-01-48, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 26 July 2017. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Mr. Iskren Veselinov. The Law specifies the provisions of the Law concerning the entry of a father's name in the birth certificate of Bulgarian children born outside the country. After 2010, without changing the legal framework, a practice has been imposed, according to which a father's name is refused in the Bulgarian birth certificate according to the Bulgarian name system, if not stated in the foreign birth certificate. However, a father's name does not exist in the name systems of a number of countries in the world. As a result of this practice Bulgarian children born abroad are recorded with only two names in the register of the population, as are recorded naturalized foreigners. The parents of these children are forced to prosecute to change their names in court. The proposed changes overcome the existing problems in practice, providing for the parents of a child born outside the country to request entry of his father's name in the process of issuing a Bulgarian birth certificate if it is not contained in the foreign document. It is also envisaged that in the case of acts already drawn up, a Bulgarian citizen born outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria may, by administrative order, request that his father's name be entered in the birth certificate. When the person is underage, the entry will be made by written application of his parents. The Commission provides opinions from the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, expressing support for the proposed Draft. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, unanimously, with 16 votes
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u154	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Before the next report, the word requested the Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov. According to our Rules, he has the right to request the floor at any time. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u155	Good afternoon! First of all, I would like to express my condolences for the tragic incident yesterday to the families and relatives of the fallen citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. In short, I would like to present complete information about what is happening as control over the dam walls and is being carried out by the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision from 2016, as well as to introduce you to yesterday's actions and the current situation; for the actions of the Directorate General "Nazor of the Dams and their facilities" to the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision. Checks have been carried out at the dams in the country since the beginning of the establishment of this Directorate, namely from 1 January 2016. Up to now employees from the General Directorate of the Dams and their facilities have checked 5661 dams. The most common violations found are: lack of technical documentation; air extraction: partial landslides, overgrown with wood and shrub vegetation; water extraction: partial landslides, disturbance of number, erosion, as well as vegetation; overflow: clasps or destruction; main leakers: clogged, clogged, both at the entrance and at the exit shafts; non-working and closed organs to them. The owners of the dams shall be given provisions on the technical documentation for safe technical operation. In view of the findings and checks carried out since the beginning of February 2017, a total of 2005 dams with a number of faults detected on the dams and facilities have been identified. Following the checks carried out in 2017, prescriptions were established to address identified technical irregularities for 61 dams. There is a fulfillment of these prescriptions and the same are technically correct: from 205 "61" are fulfilled. For failure to comply with the time limits laid down by staff of the competent agency, 374 acts for the establishment of administrative infringements have been drawn up and served. In carrying out checks on dams in the event of detected violations of the technical structure and security of dams and facilities to them, prescriptions are given for checking the complete emptying of 89 dams. For these dams owners are obliged to prepare analyses of the technical and operational state of the dams. There are most of these dams in the districts of Blagoevgrad, Vratsa, Burgas and Haskovo. The control that takes place is year-round. Only since the beginning of this year, control of dams by the competent agency have been carried out at over 3630 dams. Notwithstanding the results of the examinations carried out on the dams and the facilities thereto, it must be borne in mind that even for dams which are not in transmissional technical condition, emergency situations are not excluded. It is necessary that their owners carry out similar technical audits regarding the operation of these dams as soon as possible. The introduction of dams and facilities to them in accordance with the requirements of the Ordinance under art. 141, para. 2 of the Water Act is a long-term process requiring financial resources from owners. In fact, one of the main problems is that the agency, which represents the Ministry of Economy, carries out checks, finds irregularities, gives prescriptions and drafts acts, accordingly issuing penal decrees, but the lack of funds, mainly of the municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, is one of the main problems, as the criminal decree or act cannot solve the problem in any way; that is to say, it is necessary to think about providing funds to solve the problems with the dams in Bulgaria in general. Data on the status of the problem dams in the territory of Burgas District. In 2017 192 checks were carried out on the dams. As a result of heavy rainfall on 24 and 25 October 2017 about 200 litres per square meter, seven dams with torn walls were established: in Kameno Yaz municipality. The Chutorata is owned by a private company "Diem" Ltd.; Yaz. "Channadjik 1" is owned by the Municipality of Kameno, yaz. The property of the Municipality of Kameno is the property of Chanadjik 2. The dam is surrounded and destroyed after heavy rainfall in October 2014. In Burgas Municipality, sq. "Medden mine": four stunt dams "Suhoto dere" 1, 2, 3 and 4, owner is the PPC future; dam. It is owned by the Municipality of Aytos. All dams have been prescribed for cleaning the wood and bush vegetation, as well as for restoring local lining, placing and watering off the walls. The dams around the villages of Cherni Vrah, Livada, Polish spring were destroyed walls in 2014 as a result of heavy rains. The important thing is to note that there are no settlements under these dams and a water drain to them is no reason for human casualties. Action taken by the Ministry of Economy: additional employees of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision in Burgas are ordered to be posted and 24-hour duty of the problem dams is provided. The teams of the State Agency have been running the reservoirs in the region since last night. A crisis headquarters has been set up in the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision. Troyanovo Reservoir, which earlier appeared in the media, is facing, and at this time there is free flow and volume. Currently, the total number of dams that have a break or break on the dams on the territory of Burgas region is seven. These are stunt dams, with four of them on the territory of the municipality of Bourgas and three in the municipality of Kameno. They're all under 50,000. Cube. M, except for dam. The Chutora, which has a volume of 100 thousand. None of them are included in the list of potentially dangerous dams and should not create a tidal wave. On the territory of the municipality of Kameno, the dams are overflowing with the dams of Chanadzhik. They're all owned by the local authorities. It is important to note that there are no settlements under these dams, and the water drain from them is not the cause of human casualties. During the night, there was only a gurney. The Hearer. The initial information from there is that the water from the dam. Canadjik "3" and "4" has entered the dam. This is a stunt, about 2:00 a.m. at night, which was with an open leaker, but the tidal wave carried soil and vegetation that blocked it. This led to a sharp increase in the level and transfusion of the dam. The State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision has established contact with local authorities in Kameno. According to their data, the last checks from these dam teams were last week and did not detect the problems. Once again, I say the problem dam from which the transfusion started is the Chutora, owned by a legal person. The most likely cause of the flood of the ponds is the fall precipitation during the last 24 hours, mainly providing information that this is about 200 liters per square meter! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u156	Thank you, dear Minister! For the procedure please, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u157	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I am making a procedural proposal that the point which we have begun to examine, namely the Law on Civil Registration, should continue after the hearing of the ministers, so I propose extending the working time of the National Assembly until the discussion and voting of the point have been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u158	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made. They voted 122 MPs: 32, against 39, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Please come in for a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u159	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u160	Thank you, Mr. Sadakov. Revoting procedure. They voted 119 MPs: 48 against 33, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. Minister Dimov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u161	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the question I have received from you: The National Institute of Hydrology and Metrology of BAS issued a second degree warning, i.e. an orange code for significant precipitation in 16 districts of Central and Eastern Bulgaria for 24 October 2017. It says that precipitation is expected with amounts of 35 to 50 liters per square meter for 24 hours, and it is locally possible to reach up to 60 liters per square meter. In the remaining 12 areas the warning is for yellow precipitation code with a quantity of 15 to 30 liters per square meter, with a local possibility to reach 40 liters per square meter per day. In the eastern regions is even less 15-20 liters, with a warning of strong wind from 15 to 20 meters per second. Overall, the variation that is reported for the four regions that are viewed by the four pool directorates, the fluctuations in the Danube region will be minus 24 to plus 18 cm, the Black Sea Basin - fluctuations from minus to + 2 cm, the Eastern Black Sea Region Specifically in the municipality of Burgas Swimming Directorate has made a series of checks and prescriptions for the cleaning of riverbeds, specifically: the small river, which is located in the land of Ravnets, Burgas Municipality. The deadline is 31 October, the river Chukarska, which is located again in Ravnets, Burgas. When talking about Kameno Municipality: Aytoska River, 1 March 2018, the Rusokasstrenska Municipality, 1 March 2018, and the Tatar Dol District until 4 April 2017, the Municipality of Kameno: Aytoska River. I will not enter Tsarevo Municipality, which is currently not within the scope of interest. In fact, if we have to be specific about the most serious, outside the victims, which is extremely unpleasant, I take this opportunity to offer condolences to their loved ones, perhaps the most serious problem that exists at the moment is with the new solid municipal waste depot in Burgas, which serves nine municipalities. It's not working right now. There's a partially compromised drainage system. There is no leakage from this drainage system, but there is a serious landslide that needs to be strengthened. This morning and last night we were with Minister Nankov. The two of us were last night, he was this morning, the deputy minister is going there right now, and on Saturday I'm leaving, and I'm going to see the necessary action to be taken. The mayor and I are in constant contact with Mr. Nikolov, with a view to solving the problem of opening temporary waste storage sites in different areas, so that there is a place to take them to the point where the depot will start working again, and they will be permanently deposited there, but in any case, the time at which the depot will be able to start working again has yet to be appreciated. The other problem currently being resolved quickly is with the treatment plant in Ezerovo, which was flooded. At the moment it is already in the suspension procedure and I assume that within today or the next one or two days will restore its work. There's less damage there anyway. This may be quite synthesized information that I can give to you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u162	Thank you, Minister Dimov. Minister Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u163	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will also try to be brief, but as colleagues who spoke before me, to inform you what happened, what is coming and how the government reacts in this complex situation, which I hope is already passing in the Burgas region. At 1:00 yesterday, the signal was sent. I will try to brief what the Ministry of Interior is doing to make it clear to the MPs. We are notified and immediately send five teams to the villages of Polski spring, Cherni Vrah and Kameno. More than 100 employees from the Ministry of Interior 64 firefighters and just over 40 are currently around 150 representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the gendarmes are involved in the case. There are fire trucks, heavy equipment, amphibious cars, divers included. Luckily, they didn't have to be used. I'm talking about divers. Groups of civilian structures have also been mobilized, which, in this case, are required, respond and assist the forces of the Ministry of Interior. On Monday 23rd, letters were sent to the district board of mayors with a code of orange 50-60 liters. We've already talked about exactly what the liters per square meter are, the projections. These letters were released with a warning. Of course, we missed the prognosis. Apparently, there was more than 200 liters per square meter of rain. It was flown immediately, only hours after, by helicopter that flew out of Bezmer with Chief Commissioner Nikolov, to see the condition mostly on the dam walls, roads and if people were injured. I have to mention, because there was a lot of speculation. A report note went through me on November 23rd was announced convening the Council for the reduction of the risk of disasters, to which I am President, with two points: adopting a strategy for the next 10 years "what is being done in this direction and guidelines to the district municipalities "planning, readiness and recovery, given the climate change in Bulgaria and in the world. This kind of thing was planned before this event happened. The Ministry of Interior, Police, Gendarmerie are also on the roads and in the areas of the distressing villages in the municipality. My personal participation was tasked by the Prime Minister to coordinate the actions of several ministries. With the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Ministry of Health were in touch, including with the Attorney General, to help. Yesterday we were there with three of the ministers, as you know. We were joined late at night and Deputy Prime Minister Simeonov. Mostly the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works reported and looked together with our colleague what was happening on the road. We went through the landslides that weren't that big, but it was cleaned up. I'm talking about the highway. Then we saw all the roads about three or four villages we passed and checked. The presence of colleague Dimov was very important. He said surely, but it was important to me as the head of these colleagues, coordinating their actions, to see if there was any environmental hazard, as we knew about this depot and the treatment plant. And beyond that, there may be animals that are dragged out of the water and don't get contagious diseases and some other stuff. That was very important, so he was there with us. The traffic situation, just to say something that Minister Nankov just handed me. It opens by the end of the day for those who are listening to us at the moment, the road Burgas Sredets. The bridges of the villages Cherni Vrah and Gorno Ezerovo continue to be renovated, work continues on them. Including gendarmes in one place, in the other place police are changing, of course, helping citizens not to happen to fall into these pits with water around the roads or because of the part of the pavement taken from someone by car not to suffer. Fortunately, so far, thanks to the actions of the Ministry of Interior and the municipal authorities, there were no victims during the event given further beyond those mentioned: two persons drowned from the village of Livada and the village of Polski Trumbesh, one person with a heart attack from the village of Ravnets. One person, you know that we are looking for her from the village of Cherni Vrah, and her husband, who has a heart attack and is in a coma. My condolences, of course, from me to their loved ones and their friends who know what happened. A few words about the reasons. The district governor Mr. Cholakov will present a signal to the prosecution today to clarify the causes of the disaster. I would like to report to you very briefly that perhaps the most likely reason.. and not only according to what we have seen with the ministers, but also what the citizens have told us are these rains, which have been unknown for years in the area. Examples of where we were in the village of Cherni Vrah, who knew him, and Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov, who was there, and he wondered, this is a village that is at altitude, there are no dams nearby. Dimitar Jambas, I remember the name, and the other one was called Stoycho, the residents who explained to us that there were no dams nearby, there was some channel, and they just wondered how it happened so that some of the houses were taken away. It's the same case with Bregovo, there are no dams, in the central part of this village there is half a meter of mud and mud and so on. You've heard the Minister of Economy's exhibitions here. He actually said what are the control functions of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision. It's where prescriptions were actually made. Whether they have been implemented, all this will be clarified by the prosecution, who will seek out the causes of the disaster. I can assure you and the citizens who are listening to us that the Ministry of Interior is continuing to assist with all its powers and resources, not only the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Population Protection. But not to worry and at night we announced this and there, when we were yesterday, from some marauders or something else that might happen. The presence of police, including the gendarmerie, we have sent from Varna. If necessary, they are present and helping citizens and thus protect them from things that have happened before. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u164	Thank you, Minister Radev. We are continuing with the reports on the Draft Law, which we were discussing, amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 754-01-38, submitted by the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs on 6 July 2017. Report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. The report will introduce to you the President of the Commission the People's Representative Krasimir Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 754-01-38, submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs on 6 July 2017. At a regular meeting held on 12 October 2017, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 754-01-38, submitted by Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of MPs on 6 July 2017. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works: Mrs. Nina Simeonova, Head of Department of the Directorate of Regional Development; by the Ministry of Interior: Mrs. Irena Damyanova, Head of the Department of Regional Affairs and EU Law. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Ercan Ebatin. The Bill proposes that copies and certificates from civil status acts should be banned from requiring personal data which were found in the system of the Single Civil Registration and Administrative Service System of the Population (ESGRAON) but have been deleted. There is also an obligation for the Directorate General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works (GRAO to MRDP) to make changes in the data contained in the Esgraon concerning deletion, respectively restoring the names of the Bulgarian citizens, to whom they were forced through the so-called revival process. The representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Interior presented their views on the bill. They claimed that the provision of art. 42, para. 2 of the current law contains an explicit prohibition for citizens to provide personal data when issuing certificates and copies on the basis of the registers of civil status acts. In addition, the EGRAON ensures the preservation and maintenance of changed data in the civil registration and it is therefore objectively impossible for the latter to be permanently deleted. The provisions in force take into account the legal characteristics of the name as a personal, non-material, subjective right. In the Law on Civil Registration, the principle of voluntary and freely expressed will of the persons is consistently introduced, such as recovery and change are possible only if they so wish. There is also a procedure for the recovery of forced changed names at the initiative of the persons concerned, as well as the possibility of the recovery of names and of deceased persons without a time limit. Attention was also paid to the fact that the registers of civil status acts are kept and maintained by municipal administrations. Their entries can only be made by civil officials in municipalities and town halls and the General Directorate of Grao could not carry out official deletion or reimbursement. The official deletion of the imposed names of the Bulgarian citizens who have restored their previous names under the law would seriously hinder and hinder the work of the structures of the Ministry of Interior. It is extremely important for the Ministry of Interior to have a full volume of information regarding individuals. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Stoyan Mirchev, Pavel Shopov, Chavdar Velinov, Nikolay Tishev and Valentina Naydenova. The same united around the thesis that we should not enter the family memory, which is the basis of national memory. In the event that the names are legally chosen to be legally restored, the renaming of the Bulgarians from the years of the Ottoman Empire should also be reviewed. All the Commissioners united around the idea that the adoption of the bill would cause legal and administrative and technical problems. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights without Voices...... 12 votes against...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u166	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. The next report is under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 754-01-48, submitted by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 26 July 2017. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u167	Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 754-01-48, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 26 July 2017. At a regular meeting held on 12 October 2017, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 754-01-48, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 26 July 2017. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works: Mrs. Nina Simeonova, Head of Staff at the Directorate of the Municipality; by the Ministry of Interior: Mrs. Irena Damyanova, Head of the Department of Regional Development and EU Law and by the Ministry of Justice: Mrs. Diana Boeva, Senior Expert at the Directorate of Law and representatives of non-governmental organizations. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Pavel Shopov. The Law specifies the provisions of the Law concerning the entry of a father's name in the birth certificate of Bulgarian children born outside the country. After 2010, without changing the legal framework, a practice has been imposed, according to which a father's name is refused in the Bulgarian birth certificate according to the Bulgarian name system, if not stated in the foreign birth certificate. In the name systems of a number of countries in the world, there is no father's name. As a result, Bulgarian children born abroad are recorded with only two names in the register of the population, recording naturalized foreigners. The parents of these children are forced to prosecute to change their names in court. The proposed changes enable parents of a child born outside the country to request entry of his father's name in the process of issuing the Bulgarian birth certificate if it is not contained in the foreign document. It is also envisaged that in the case of acts drawn up, Bulgarian citizens born outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria may, by administrative order, request that his father's name be entered in the birth certificate. When the person is underage, the entry will be made by written application of his parents. The Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. The representatives of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice presented their opinions and expressed their support for the proposed Draft. The representative of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works expressed concern that with the addition of the father's name to the Bulgarian birth certificate, when one is missing in the foreign, two official documents of equal probabilities will be created, but with regard to the name. This would lead to a double identity of the person in both countries and perhaps to difficulties for the citizens, but if there is a public need to regulate relations, there is no obstacle to adopting the bill. The opinion of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria highlights the need to accelerate and facilitate the process of adding the father's name to the issued Bulgarian birth certificate for children born in a Bulgarian family but outside their homeland. The Commission's opinion on protection against discrimination states that the proposed texts are in the spirit and objectives of the Law on protection against discrimination, national and European anti-discrimination legislation, namely: equalisation of the opportunities of children born in the Republic of Bulgaria with those born outside its borders. In the subsequent discussion, the MPs expressed their support for the proposed Draft. It was pointed out that the bill is related to the respect of Bulgarian traditions, namely the presence of a father's name in the spelling of the names. Following the debates held on the Committee on Religions and Human Rights unanimously by 13 votes in favour, without the opposition and the abstentions, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, on 26 July 2017, a Draft amendment and supplement to the Civil Registration Act, No 754-01-48, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, on 26 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u168	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, on behalf of your colleagues, and I hope you will all join me in my warmest congratulating you with the bright feast of Dimitrovden and congratulating you on your name day. [[Applause]] and a warrior like St. Dimitar, a man who has not hesitated to sacrifice his life, but not to pursue people on ethnic, racial and religious grounds! To this congratulations, I send similar greetings to all those who bear such names in this House, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u170	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. Thank you, fellow Members. You surprised me. I admit it. Report from the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. The President of the Commission has the floor of the People's Representative Andon Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u171	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members. ♪ I can't believe on a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act No 754-01-48, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 26 July 2017. The Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad at a regular meeting held on 27 September 2017, discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 754-01-48, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 26 July 2017. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Boris Vangelov. It provides for the clarification of the provisions of the Law on Civil Registration concerning the entry of the father's name in the birth certificate of Bulgarian children born outside the country. After 2010 administrative practice has been imposed under an unchanged legal framework, according to which a father name is refused in the Bulgarian birth certificate according to the Bulgarian name system of children born outside the country, if not explicitly stated in the foreign birth certificate. However, such a name is not intended to exist in the name systems of most countries in the world. As a result of this practice, Bulgarian children born to Bulgarian citizens are recorded in the register of the village with two names, as are recorded naturalized foreigners. The parents of these children are forced to defend their rights in judicial order through a court procedure to change their name by adding a father's name, and this is associated with costs of time, means and effort, including engaging a lawyer. In recent years, dozens of cases have been filed before district courts to add a father's name to two-named birth certificates already issued. The cases of children from the same parents, the older one born before 2010 and with a father's name added to the birth certificate when it was drawn up and the other one born later entered into the register of the population without a father's name because of refusal. The proposed amendments to the Law on Civil Registration allow the Bulgarian birth certificate to be issued as well as the parents of a child born outside the country to request the entry of a father's name in the process of issuing a Bulgarian birth certificate when it is not contained in the foreign document and when the parents have declared a wish for it. Under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, opinions were received from the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the State Agency "National Security" and from the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. During the debate Mr. Ivan Getov and the MPs Julian Angelov and Manuil Manev took the main director of the Directorate of Grao. Mr. Getov expressed his concerns that the proposed change could lead to abuses that concern the danger of creating a double identity. He expressed his opinion that changing the name led to an unpleasant fact, which included the issuance of two documents with different content from different countries which had evidence of the name. In conclusion, he summarized that the proposed changes would not be difficult and to further burden the employees and structures of the CAO. In defence of the bill by the importers, the People's Representative Julian Angelov took the position, who called on us to observe the Bulgarian name tradition and added that the proposed amendments enable the parents of a child born outside the country to enter a father's name in the process of issuing the Bulgarian birth certificate. People's representative Manuil Manev expressed his opinion that the proposed changes to the Law on Civil Registration decide another injustice in the work on the issue of Bulgarian documents. In his speech he stressed that there are positive opinions from all institutions involved in this process and pointed out that the bill is subject to the legal logic of the express desire of the parents and urged the members of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad to support it. In conclusion, the chairman of the committee Andon Donchev, based on the opinions received by the institutions and the constructive dialogue held during the meeting, urged the MPs to support the proposed changes. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad with 11 votes for the European Parliament, without the opposition and 3 abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Bill on Civil Registration, No 754-01-48, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 26 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-26.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. We've got about five minutes to go. If you don't mind, let's leave the opinions of the importers and the debates to the next sitting so we don't tear apart an importer's opinion. If they do not object to importers, of course, because the extension proposal is not accepted. Do you agree? Okay. Messages of parliamentary control: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer 3 questions from MPs Kristian Vigenin [[2 questions]] and Gemma Grozdanova. 2. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer 11 questions from the MPs Sevim Ali; Lyubomir Bonev; Georgi Yordanov and Manol Genov; Hristo Prodanov; Stefan Burgev; Manol Genov [[3 questions]] ; Zhelyo Boychev; Ivan Chenchev; and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. 3. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer 3 questions from the MPs Miglena Alexandrova; Teodora Halacheva and Mihail Hristov; and Georgi Gokov and 1 question from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Violeta Jeleva, Dora Yankova and Nadia Klisurska. 4. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer 6 questions from the MPs Tanya Petrova; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Donka Simeonova; Petar Vitanov; and Miglena Alexandrova [[2 questions]] . On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krassimir Karakachanov, 2 questions from MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on 1 question from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov; - Interior Minister Valentin Radev at 1 question from the MPs Ivan Valentinov and Dora Yankova; - the Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 Lilyana Pavlova 1 question from the National Representative Jemma Grozdanova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on 1 question from the National Representative Anton Kutev; - the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to 1 question from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev; and 1 question with a written answer from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to 1 question with a written answer from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - 2 questions and 1 question from the MP Ivo Hristov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva; and 1 question to the Minister of Culture Boel Banov; - 1 question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov; - 1 question from the MP Todor Baychev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov. Due to the country's absence in the parliamentary control meeting, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov will not participate. Due to the running out of time scheduled for today's plenary day, I'm adjourned. Next meeting, tomorrow at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
