ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u1	We've got a hearing. I'm opening up a plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly programme for the work of the National Assembly: Projects for decisions on changes to Standing Committees. Importer is the People's Representative Krum Zarkov. I propose that it become point 6 in the programme immediately after the draft decision to complete the composition of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Cooperation Process in Southeast Europe. The other points shall be renumbered accordingly. Please vote. Vote 183 MPs: for 181, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. You have the floor, dear Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The reason for today's declaration by the Parliamentary Group of the European Parliament is the government's stated intention to increase dramatically and unprecedentedly by 60% from 300 to 480 BGN, the minimum amount of insurance income for registered farmers and tobacco producers since the beginning of 2018. It is a strange coincidence that this act of abuse on the pocket of the farmer and tobacco producer started from 2009. In the first budget of the state social security of the government of GERB the minimum amount of insurance income of farmers and tobacco producers is increased from 130 to 240 BGN. As a result of this measure, registered farmers in just one year decreased by 30 thousand. Between 2002 and 2009 the growth of minimum insurance thresholds increased from BGN 42,50. The due monthly contributions are BGN 130 and BGN 12.45 respectively. and BGN 19,50, the growth on an annual basis is from 149 BGN. In 2016 and 2017 the minimum insurance income for farmers and tobacco producers is BGN 300. in the event of monthly payments due BGN 87 and annual expenses of BGN 1054 The growth of the due contributions between 2009 and 2017 is BGN 826, 32. Or nearly five times. At the same time, the increase in the size of minimum insurance payments is significantly smaller. The growth rates of social and health insurance costs are disproportionate to the growth of sales revenues from farmers' activities. Given that, for the most part, the structure of these farms is of the family type and if other family members engaged in the family company are to be provided, the burden of insurance costs increases two or three times. As of the next 2018, in the case of the proposed minimum insurance income of 480 BGN, the amount of the monthly amounts due for social and health insurance is BGN 145.44 and on an annual basis is BGN 1745. or a growth of 690 BGN. versus 2017. A large part of farmers and tobacco producers will probably seek salvation in the grey sector, alas, without any social protection. Whether this act of drastic violation of the incomes of farmers and tobacco producers is accidental or is an expression of deliberate, tendential attitude is a subject of serious reflection, but the repetition of this action is already a cause for assessment and it cannot be any different from a harsh violation of the bread of these hard and hardworking Bulgarian citizens. There will probably be arguments of the kind that the proposed measure is for financial balancing of revenues and costs and hence to the important topic of the insurance contribution. Why we want and seek financial stability and balance only from farmers, provided that the total deficit in the public procurement budget is nearly 4 billion. And 200 million. lv.? The natural question is: which of the funds of state social security has a balance between revenue and expenditures - whether, for example, the Fund of Security with a deficit of nearly 82 million. lv.? All funds of state social security except the Fund.Trudic accident and occupational disease..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Even the pride of the government "the increase of the minimum pension for internship and age with 22%" at 180 and 200 BGN has no relation to the contribution of insurance. It was this political act that led to a rude violation of the principles of social security. Unprecedented pressure of the united nationalists, the loyalty of the recipient GERB cost the budget an additional 300 million. lv. for the entire year 2018. As they say in the name of power, everything is admissible. Nowadays, social security systems face huge challenges posed by the changing nature of labour. It is no coincidence that the future of labour is one of the leading topics in the government's priorities during the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The new requirements of employers to the profile of job seekers, demographic problems, the new Jender balance of labour, migration and free movement are all factors that lie at the heart of mind in decision-making. Workers in the sector are victims of short-sighted solutions and long-term financial uncertainty. Today, the sector is notoriously known for its unattractive jobs, for its low output incomes, for its disadvantageous working conditions, for its low-skilled and poorly motivated workforce, as well as for the seasonal nature of employment, precarious work and poor coverage by the social security system. This has a direct and indirect impact on the social and civil rights of workers in the sector, poses risks to both their and their families' welfare. These changes require a responsible policy, not a special, trendy attitude. The proposed changes related to direct invasion of the pocket and bread contain discontent, confusion and, last but not least, a huge protest charge. They do not have huge tractors, combines and large agricultural inventory to block roads, but have a highly sensitive and vulnerable mind, which is already filled with anger and willingness to absorb their social rights. Do not harm the bread of farmers and tobacco producers! Remember what the people said: " No one is greater than the bread! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u3	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Moving on to point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR 2018 Yesterday were presented the reports of the committees, today we move to the opinion of an importer. Before that, procedure. Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please put to a vote in the Chamber to be admitted: Professor Nikolay Prodanov Deputy Minister of Justice; Mrs. Monica Panayotova, Deputy Minister at the Ministry of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union; Mr. Georg Georgiev, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs; Mr. Nikolay Kanchev, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Environment and Water; Mr. Boyan Magdalenchev, representing the Supreme Judicial Council, Mr. Sevdeline Mavrov, Member of the Supreme Judicial Council, as well as colleagues Dobrin Pinjurov, Vladimir Petrov, Petya Kuzeva, Women Nacheva and Georgi Chukalev, Directors of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u5	Please vote on the proposal made. Vote 189 MPs: for 176, against 6, abstention 7. Please invite the guests. On behalf of the importer there is the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House! For another year, shortly before the end, we have gathered to determine the main function of the state in the distribution of the goods created by the Bulgarian citizens or at least partly. There's more for next year! They are more and the budget through the revenue side will distribute nearly 40 billion. Gross domestic product is expected to reach over 100 billion for the first time and to be around 106 billion. They are more, although in fulfillment of the doctrine we confess and in fulfillment of our election program we do not change taxes. The only parametric change relating to taxes is the achievement of minimum excise rates for tobacco. Yes, in 2015 we agreed with the social partners a gradual increase in the social contribution to the Fund "Pensions" and, according to the schedule, the contribution to the Fund "Pensions" will increase from next year by one percentage point. Outside of this particular, I would like to emphasise once again that it is important for us that the existing tax policy model be maintained. Many doctrinal topics related to inequality and ways of overcoming it were heard. I would accept as sincere these, I would not call them a cry, those desires from part of the political class, if they would really lead to equality. We remember the beginning of the transition when we were all equal and then some suddenly progressed sharply towards others because, thank God, people are not the same. The more innovative, the more educated must and can have more. However, the role of the budget is to smooth out inequalities and stimulate people's equal chances. That is why I refer again to the Election Program: we identified as a problem the quality of the workforce, the quality of one of the main factors in reproduction. In the following year, although we started from this year, we continue to invest in human resources. Yeah, we've wasted a lot of time, yeah, we should've made high-school investments earlier, put the initiative, the better trained, the best graduates in the classroom. We're too late with that, we're paying that price. Currently, the state of the labour market is such that there is virtually no unemployment. In practice, there are jobs available for which no employees can be found. At the end of the period for which we have submitted a forecast, unemployment is expected to be slightly above 5% levels, historically low, levels that reach the potential of the economy and stop the possibility of greater growth. In addition to the quality of the workforce, in the Law we have provided for optimization of the model of funding of secondary education, so that we take into account more factors and not just the number of children in school, and we believe that in this way some of the weaknesses of the system, which have been identified in the last ten years, will be overcome. We invest additionally in health care, although the one who will draw the correct recipe for how to cure the sick Bulgarian health care was not born. This debate is due in this House and I hope it will be conducted outside the Budget Act, because the budget is a means, the budget is not an instrument. In terms of wage costs. There's an increase in a lot of sectors, of course, it's not a rucksack. If you look at the Consolidated Budget Framework, approximately 1 billion. lv. Staff costs are increasing compared to the Programme for 2017. Yes, incomes in Bulgaria are relatively lower than those in the countries we aim for, but it is not a budget that increases income. The budget's being reassigned, well below 40%. By the way, there were words that, you see, we have distributed very little and this was a loss to Bulgarian citizens. This is a fact, but it is a conceptual mistake to think that we have reached such a quality of growth of the political class that we deserve to make decisions instead of the Bulgarian citizens something that was claimed to be 100% before 1989. If you want us to redistribute more, we need to get back to your position on tax increases. [[It addresses the left side of the room.]] Because one of your MPs for two weeks has been telling us how we are very low redistribution and how we need to get to a higher level of redistribution. This, fellow Members, is happening through greater seizure. There's no other mechanism! But let's assume that sometimes these 80% take over in you and hear false ones. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev, applause from GERB.]] Look, I know this debate shouldn't go off like this, but for the 80 percent, it's not my line. [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] For the 80 percent is not my reply, colleagues, and no matter how well-intentioned it is derived from the context or in the context, it is an assessment of the state of Bulgarian democracy and the attitude of the government and of those governed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u7	We're not talking about democracy, we're talking about the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u8	The budget is part of democracy, Dr. Ademov. You just spoke about solidarity in the Bulgarian budget. So the budget is, again, I say, the emancipation of the attitude of the rulers to those in charge, because what we are deciding today is how to spend other people's money. In order not to turn the presentation of the fiscal framework into a dogmatic dispute, I will continue with just a few more words at a fundamental level, as we had the opportunity, apart from the reports of the committees that reveal individual sectoral policies, to present in many different formats and together with the social partners, our vision of how the funds of the Bulgarian taxpayers should be spent next year. The phased consolidation, which is foreseen by the end of the period, is, in our view, the correct solution. We have heard many debates in the previous years that the accumulation of debts is unacceptable. Therefore, the deficit reduction must be an objective, we must continue to reduce it. Otherwise, and given the quality and success of the privatisation of the last 25 26 years, it can no longer be a source of funding for budget shortages. Therefore, we must get used to the concept that we must extend according to the rug, and for next year we have foreseen a reduction in the deficit under the Consolidated fiscal programme. This will also help us reduce the debt. It will decrease not only relatively, but also nominally, because over the years we will only be making efforts, debt maturity, and we will not be issuing new ones on international markets and net funding will be negative. Next year, net funding will be negative by about 600 million, meaning 600 million more debts will be repaid. This will give us an opportunity at the end of the period, around 2020, if the fiscal targets set for the individual years are met, to end up with about 20% of the gross domestic product deficit compared to the debt. Something that is exactly three times lower than the criteria in the Stability and Growth Pact, and if we continue to maintain a prudent fiscal policy, this will enable us to increase the confidence of our European partners and perhaps be admitted to the more internal circles of European integration, something that we have unfortunately not yet earned. With regard to tax policy, I would once again like to return to the subject of flat or proportional, proportional or progressive taxation. I don't see Professor Gechev in the hall... [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] You hid it in the back. Hello, Professor!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u9	He's sitting there. [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u10	I just want to finish with this. I see that you are loaded with positive emotions, as the budget was defined as extremely left. [[Applause from GERB.]] It is an executive budget that cares through the spending part for young people, provides, albeit not always enough for those who can't take care of themselves, and without taking away from the active ones who create the goods. We're in the first vote today. I hope a meaningful debate will happen because in recent weeks, with the exception of some speeches, the majority of the debate was far from what was presented in the Bulgarian Parliament. Again, although I know that I will annoy you, this budget is for 100% of Bulgarian citizens, not 80% of them. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u11	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Before the debates, in which Mrs. Stoyanova and Mr. Tsonev already expressed their willingness to participate, on behalf of the Supreme Judicial Council, Mr. Magdalinchev, who represents him. You have the floor, dear Mr. Magdalenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Supreme Judicial Council shall be a permanent body representing the judiciary. As such, it defines the composition and organisation of the work of the judiciary, ensuring the financial and technical activities of the judicial authorities, without interfering with its implementation. The proposed draft budget for 2018 and the updated budget forecasts for 2019 and 2020 of the judiciary are consistent with forecasting an optimal amount of funds for the normal functioning of the judicial institutions. The draft budget of the judiciary reflects the desire to increase efficiency in the overall work of the judiciary at the level corresponding to the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union. In preparing the estimates of the budget of the judiciary, the objective needs of the number of magistrates and employees of the official administration, determined in relation to the number of legal proceedings and the rate of their increase, as well as the operation of the Single Classifier of the positions in the judicial administration, are used. The reports are developed on the basis of the established budgets for 2017 of the judiciary bodies, providing for additional costs necessary for the proper functioning and ensuring the rapid administration and establishment of information systems for the implementation of e-Justice. The draft budget for 2018 and the updated budget forecasts for 2019 and 2020 of the judiciary are in line with the guidelines for drawing up the draft budget for 2018 of the Ministry of Finance. Funds are provided for securing the main functions and activities related to the amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, part of which have entered into force this year. In connection with the change in art. 130, para. 2, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 5 of the Law on the Judiciary in the Draft Budget are laid down funds for major renovation and acquisition of buildings. There are estimates of the funds needed for the work of the prosecutors' and the Supreme Judicial Council's College for the implementation of Measure 6.42 under Strategic Objective No 6 of the roadmap for the implementation of the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform. In connection with the change of art. 361, para. 3 of the Law on the Judiciary in the Draft Budget does not provide for expenditure for salaries and compensation, clothing, insurance and maintenance of judges of the entries and state judicial contractors who pass to the Ministry of Justice. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. For the three years, policy is equal access to justice, whereby the extension of judicial activity excludes the introduction of market mechanisms in the provision of legal assistance in civil and criminal matters. It should be noted that the increase in legal proceedings is not possible to relate to a significant increase in proceeds from judicial fees due to the high proportion of criminal and administrative proceedings in which fees are either not collected or in extremely symbolic amounts. The estimated revenue is realistic, taking into account changes in the regulations and using economic and statistical methods of analysis, in line with the forecasts of the changed macroeconomic environment. A reserve for unforeseen and urgent expenses of 900 thousand has been added. lv. for the three years. The development of the spending part in the 2018 Draft Budget and the updated budgetary forecasts for 2019 and 2020 provides for optimal, financial provision of the main policies to which the activities of all those working in the judiciary of the Republic of Bulgaria are subject. The main policies and programmes in the area of the judiciary are: Policy 1: the implementation of justice and judicial authority in order to protect the rights and legitimate interests of citizens, legal persons and the state, and includes the activities of all courts in the country. Three programmes are divided into this policy. Policy 2: Compliance with the law in the Republic of Bulgaria and includes the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria with separate four programs. Policy 3: Managing and organizing the work of the judiciary without violating its independence and includes the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council. Three programmes are divided into this policy. Policy 4: Strengthening the professional qualifications of law enforcement authorities, which includes the activities of the National Institute of Justice with three programmes assigned to that policy. Policy 5: Control of the judicial authorities, based on the principles of legality, objectivity and publicity. The fifth policy also includes the activities of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council with three programmes to it. Policy 6: e-Justice and includes an electronic system for carrying out all procedural actions provided for in the Law by the judicial authorities in electronic form. Policy 7: Management of the real estate of the judiciary and includes: carrying out major repairs of judicial buildings, insurance and tax funds, construction supervision activities and investor control. The reports of the draft budget are fully consistent with the policies laid down on the roadmap for implementation of the updated Strategy for Continuing Judicial Reform adopted by Decision No 299 of 22 April 2016 of the Council of Ministers. The proposed draft budget of the judiciary on the opinion of the Council of Ministers differs from the amount of expenditure proposed by the Supreme Judicial Council by 38 million. $800,000. lv. The draft budget of the judiciary for 2018 developed by the Ministry of Finance is mainly aimed at increasing staff costs. Not enough alimony funds are secured. To the proposal of the Council of Ministers, additional costs should be added to ensure the following main functions and activities of the judiciary: 1. Pursuant to the amendments provided for in the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Judicial Authority in 2017, the specialized criminal court, the Appeals Specialized Prosecutor's Office and the Special Prosecutor's Office shall be paid additional remuneration to the magistrates and judicial officers of the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court, the Specialized Criminal Court, the Appeals Specialized Prosecutor's Office and the Special Prosecutor's Office in accordance with the amendments provided for in the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Judicial Authority in 2017, in art. 233, para. 6 sentence first and sentence second and art. 345, para. 5. It is envisaged that magistrates and judicial officers will receive additional remuneration every quarter, but not more than six basic monthly salaries. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) 2. Pays jurors' fees, according to art. 73, para. 2 and para. 5 of the Law on the Judiciary, with the amendment promulgated in the State Gazette, issue 13/2017. With these amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, the jury shall be paid remuneration of no less than BGN 20 in the event of a postponement of the hearing. each day, as well as the costs of transport they have incurred in connection with their participation in court meetings, shall be reimbursed from the budget of the judiciary. The expected shortage for 2018 compared to 2017 on this feather is around 500 thousand. lv. 3. In October 2017, the transfer of the Criminal Office of the Sofia District Court was carried out, the Office of the Sofia District Court, the Court of Justice and some of the magistrates and judicial officers from the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office in the building of Blvd. Skobelev. In this regard, funds of 1 and a half million are needed for the payment of local taxes and fees and funds for current expenditures - water, energy and maintenance. 4. The funds for the payment of the benefits under the Labour Code and the Law on the Judiciary provided for 62 magistrates and 275 judicial officers, according to data from the judicial authorities. The expected shortage for 2018 amounts to 2 million. lv. It should be noted that in 2017, the shortage of this paragraph is covered by cash on accounts from previous years. 5. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion 900,000. lv. for carrying out the activity under art. 360 of the Law on the Judiciary on Electronic Justice. 6. Funds for the payment of clothing to magistrates and judicial officers. In view of the above, the Commission concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) Dear Members of Parliament, in conclusion, I would like to say that a priority of the judiciary is a well-functioning and transparent judicial system to ensure effective enforcement of laws, to give security to citizens and to protect respect for their rights and freedoms. The guidelines in this area are the achievement of equal access to justice and European standards in the field of legal aid, the protection of victims of crime, the alternative resolution of disputes. As representing the Supreme Judicial Council and President of the Budget Committee, I sincerely hope, honourable Members, that you will vote on a budget that will allow the judiciary to function normally and ensure its main activities and functions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Magdalenchev. I'm opening the debate. I give the floor to the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, Chairman of the Committee on Budget and Finance, then the People's Representative Yordan Tsonev, Vice-President of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u14	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Deputy Ministers, colleagues! Before I refer to the specific policies in Budget 2018, I would like to make a brief retrospective. What is the financial situation of the country? A stable, financial and fiscal environment. What did we find after Oresharski and BSP? Huge budget deficit, revenue default, European programmes facing failure, high unemployment, uncertainty in business from future development and state policies, bankrupt bank CCB, distrust in the banking sector, high interest rates and practically stopped lending. What do we have today? A growing economy. The most synthesized indicator for this is gross domestic product, which is above average for European countries. For 2016 "3.9%; for 2017, we expect 4%. For 2018, we also predict about 4%. A balanced budget for 2016, the same will be for 2017, as well as further permanent consolidation by 2020. Overexecution of revenue. For 2017, they will be 2.3 billion more compared to those reported for the previous year and as a result of successive actions by the executive to combat smuggling and the grey economy. Over 11 billion fiscal reserves. A stable financial system, restored trust in banks. Crediting at extremely low interest rates. The State shall be credited to interest below 1%. Financial stability guaranteed by a stable currency board lining up with high foreign exchange reserves. As of mid-2017, they amounted to 24,4 billion. EUR and grow for this year by 4.9%. A reduction in government debt. Despite the fact that we have eight years of deficits, despite the failures in the banking system and energy, Bulgaria is third in the European Union in the amount of gross domestic debt to gross domestic product. For 2017 we will report debt against gross domestic product of 23%. 22 per cent is envisaged for 2018. Here I mean, we're going to have a real reduction in debt by 600 million. Real discount! This is because in the three-year forecast, debt is projected to reach 20% of gross domestic product in 2020. Extremely low unemployment rate. For 2017 For 2018, 6.5% is expected to reach 5,6% by 2020, and 6.2% is expected to reach 5,6% by 2020. Income growth. Thank God, mostly in the real sector, where in just one year, employees' incomes in the real sector got an increase of over 11%. I can list more, but I'll stop there. What does Budget 2018 provide for? His whole philosophy, honourable Members, is subject to a number of important things, supporting the economic activity of the business, for continuing sustainable economic growth, for providing conditions for a sustainable increase in investment in production, by preserving tax policy, by maintaining the low level of profit grab by business and people in order to redistribute them state, continuing and deepening administrative reform. There's a lot of criticism. We'll probably hear from them in a little while that the budget didn't have policies. The budget, honourable Members, is focused on several key policies that are crucial to our development, not only next year, but I would say in the next decade. These are policies in the education, health, security sectors. Policies aimed entirely at the future generation for more educated, healthier, living in a safer environment for young people. Therefore, more funds are also set aside in these spheres, but changes are also envisaged in the management of these funds, which will lead to higher quality and the achievement of the desired results. I'm going to say a few numbers here. More than 610 million more in the sector of Education and Science, more than 400 million more in the sector of....................... more than........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would like to stress that these are not just more costs, more funds. It's an investment, and I can bravely say it's an investment in national security. Along with these priorities, Budget 2018 is also looking after disadvantaged people, either because they are adults, pensioners, either because they have diseases or have low social status. For this reason, the growth of the funds allocated to the Fund is also envisaged, which will reach 13 billion in total for 2018. 71 million. BGN, of which 9 billion The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. It's for pensions, 519 million. lv. more than their amount for 2017. For social benefits and benefits, the amount increases to close to 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes They are not left unattended, and the income policies in the budget sphere increase in the salaries of those working in the budget a total of 730 million, without the amounts to be provided, and together with them the amount reaches up to 960 million. However, this does not mean that all who work in the budget will receive an increase in their salaries in a percentage that would be desired by them. Once again, the main funds are for the priority sectors, as well as to ensure the minimum wage. For other budget staff there are opportunities to raise their salaries and these opportunities are in the hands of the relevant ministries and departments. These options include optimization of the processes the administration carries out, electronization of the services it does, of the activities it does. As a result of this optimization, savings can be a source for raising the salary of the rest of the administration. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the country is developing upward, sustainable and this is not only because of the economic cycle in which Bulgaria, the countries of the European Union and the world are located, but also because of the stable financial and fiscal environment, because of the predictable tax economic policy of the state, because of the political sustainability and calmness, because of the growing authority of our country among our partners and neighbours. All this gives peace of mind to the business to develop its projects. All this gives people peace of mind to increase consumption. And that will be because this is the program that we have honestly told people that we will carry out, with which the people have chosen us to rule and which we will follow firmly. The rest, colleagues, are opposition ramblings. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? I won't. To make a speech there is the people representative Yordan Tsonev, after him the people representative Cornelia Ninova Chairman of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u16	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Let's start with the opposition ramblings, Mrs. Stoyanova. In the Commission, at the first review of the three budgets, Minister Goranov concluded with the words that it is not the budget's job to reform, the budget reflects the economic situation of the state and is a financial-accounting balance of revenue, expenditure, financial allocation. Today we see that you are starting to talk about policies and reforms, after we have paid attention to you that there are none. Many things were said in the debate until the budget was put into the Chamber and many names were given. From a budget of visual fraud in a familiar Hollywood film, through a budget of wages and lost time. However, today I would like to make a serious analysis of what you are importing as a budget. I am sorry that the Minister of Finance is gone, but I hope he will still grace the House with his presence to listen to the analysis of the MPs with regard to this document. Let's start with the macrogram. We have economic growth that is good for the country, which fits the cycle of the European and global economy of the order of 4%. What is the result of this economic growth and how to preserve, stimulate and even increase it? And should it be increased? In one of the previous meetings of the Budget Committee, properly Minister Goranov welcome! [[Deputy Minister Vladislav Goranov enters the hall]] The question was raised that there are analyses that show that the Bulgarian economy may overheat, that its potential for growth is almost reached. What does careful analysis show? Careful analysis shows that growth is mainly due to domestic demand, consumption. This is also at stake as a growth pump in the next budget. In front of me are the documents, and I will not quote them, so as not to waste the precious time of the little time our parliamentary group has. Yes, if we are betting growth to be a major factor in domestic consumption, the risk of overheating is present. The potential of the economy to grow on the basis of consumption is low. It will increase imports, hence the decline of exports to growth, the potential will really be transferred and the economy will overheat. This analysis we do not see it and the measure does not happen that we do not see it. Instead, we see more of the same internal consumption, betting on this growth pump, given that the economy needs investment In this direction, the things that are being done are just words or a slight marking of the process. The increase in capital expenditure is rather a fiscal buffer, as is a fiscal buffer for this year, as they have not been used, so will it be for next year. Steps in the direction of creating a favorable investment environment are also infinitely dignified one, two tiny steps, such as removing, let's say, the requirement for a criminal record. What about speeding up the investment process and removing the administrative pressure that the business calls a "recket" and the countless control bodies that pour into the business at peak moments of six, seven institutions?! In meetings with employers' organizations, we personally did with the American Chamber of Commerce, they repeatedly repeated the following: The main reason we do not invest are the administrative obstacles in the country. For example, the IBM said: "We have 2,400 employees, we can make them 4,800, the reason is only in you. The reason is only in the country and in the conditions for business. "I mean, we don't see conditions here, we don't see a policy for economic growth to be accelerated, to increase the country's economic growth potential to be raised through investment. On the contrary, momentum. If the European economy grows, domestic consumption grows, interest rates are low, people use their savings as an investment tank and thus increase consumption, so the overall growth of the economy is raised. Nowhere did I see an analysis: what would happen if, in the medium term, interest on deposits increased? I have done such an analysis myself and I am telling you that this is a major risk to economic growth. They will immediately stop using investment savings and this will lead to a serious reduction in the potential for economic growth. And there are such trends in the European and global economy because, when economies grow, interest rates start to rise. It's a rule in economic theory. It's not reflected anywhere here. Regarding growth, a few more words. Growth does not take into account the structure of gross domestic product, how to stimulate those sectors and those growth factors in order to accelerate economic growth. Let's get to the famous expenditures and reforms now. Mr. Minister, not only myself, most economists believe that the budget is not a financial-accounting balance of revenue and expenditure of a country's finances. It is a key instrument for policy making. It reflects the intentions based on the givens of the government concerned to make policies and reforms and so on. As some economists well called it, the actual increase in labour costs is about 1 billion. lv. I can quote it in the various fields of education -- 542 million, 123 million as a direct result on public sector salaries, about 700 million more money in total for salaries and so on. However, there is also a reverse effect that is not said here by the government, at least I did not hear Mrs. Stoyanova say about it. The net effect of this increase in income is not so. The net effect will be not 1 billion, but about 420 million per year, for the simple reason that 450 million. lv. they will be seized by taxpayers next year from raising pensions insurance, 108 million from raising excise duties on cigarettes and another 108 million raising insurance thresholds. In other words, the state is pumping the income of those who depend on it by 1 billion, taking back 130 million from taxation on these new incomes and additionally costing at least 450 million more by raising taxes. The net effect is about 420 million. So this factor also goes into that comparison that we made - optical fraud. There's one thing we show, and there's something else. About the reforms in the sectors. Dear colleagues, there are really no reforms in this budget, and there should be for many reasons. At least the programmes of the two parties, which are in coalition. Secondly, because large budgetary, social and public spheres are unreformed. Thirdly, because the effectiveness of one lev public expenditure is too low compared to that of Europe. A moment ago, Minister Goranov said that the one who will show how healthcare will be cured was not born. Mr. Minister, health care does not need to be born to treat it, for the simple reason that prescriptions for treating diseases from what our health care suffers are found, applied and cured in almost all countries of the European Union, Canada, in the States, in Australia, in all major countries. There's not a single system there with one case of monopoly. We're the only ones in the world. That's a great contribution. [[Heckling]] It's absolutely true, it's absolutely true! How do you treat the shortcomings of a monopoly system? By bringing in competition. He'll tell you Delyan Dobrev if there's no one to tell you. Yeah, health care isn't a market. In healthcare, quasi-market instruments can be introduced, but they are not there. Why is there a monopoly on a cash register? What this case could do, we've seen in the last few years. Since 2005, the DPS has spoken on this topic. We've made groups to work, we've developed a model. Three years of work, three years of work. We've translated all the systems into how they work. On this basis, we developed three model models. We didn't have time. Two and nine years you came to power, we did our work, we gave it to your minister and we said to him: "Use this work, because if you start the reform now, it will take you several years to get to the model. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You refused to reform health care. More than that. That billion and four hundred million was set aside to launch the demonopolist of the Casa. The first year, in which there will be many cases, this money to the taxpayers, to the insured persons, to be distributed to the new cases and treated with them. A man came from the World Bank, from where, and taught us how this shouldn't happen, and took that money, and spent it. And put such a big cross on healthcare reform. You are now saying that we are debtors to society as a debate on this reform, but you are debtors, we are not debtors, to tell you! [[Applause from DPS.]] You will see that until you demonopolist the Cassata, all the defects, all the diseases of the system will be multiplied, and the 40 percent for pills, for medicines that are unprecedented in Europe, where pharmaceuticals steal and the persons who give them it, and the money of doctors, and the money for health. And everything else about health cards, what health cards, colleagues? The health cards will determine them by market entities crates and market entities hospitals. They're gonna figure out where to have health deposit boxes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u17	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u18	We are discussing an important system that swallows a huge resource at the start of this system............ 3 billion.................................... at the start of this system.................................... 800 million. lv. 20 years later. Two billion four hundred, when you came to power 2009, 55% more today. Is there 55% more good health? I won't. Are there any satisfied doctors? I won't. Are there any happy sisters? I won't. What more bell does it have to ring to sit down and show these reforms what they'll look like from her first to her last day? In education, you yourself say that this is money for attracting specialists, and what kind of staff does 52 universities take out, and how many tens of thousands of Bulgarian students go abroad? Because there is no quality of education here. Because no financial mechanism has been found, no rating to have on these higher education institutions, whatever rating they do in Europe and the United States on specific indicators. On the basis of them to receive the money because there is no coordination of specialties between business, between the labour market and these higher education institutions, about secondary education not to speak. Without these reforms, pouring money into these sectors will not have any effect, except for a worsening of the efficiency of public expenditure per unit of service that receives society. I can continue much in this spirit, both in other spheres of security and defence, and in the social sphere. The point is that the trend is the same in this budget we see a very serious deficit of management vision to reform the main public systems. And it should be done in the first year of a coalition's term of office in a clear and firm way, even with a horizon, not four, but with horizon 8-10 years, so that others can, then taking over the government that takes over it, have some continuity in these reforms, have some understanding, so as not to start over all the time. Moreover, the economic cycle also allows right now to make the bravest reforms, right now to spend money on these reforms, because reforms are expensive. They require funds. Why didn't we attack you in 2009 for reforms? Because that was the cycle, the country in recession. Obviously, there's no money for reform. Money for reforms began to appear after 2013 when the cycle turned. If I had more time, I would have answered Mrs. Stoyanova for the inheritance from Oresharski and for the other inheritance from 2008 - 2009, which you received again from the same person and again from the same coalition. But that's a topic we'll talk about another time. We have a lot to say to each other. Life does not start in 2009, and if it starts in 2009, you should know that it is not good at all. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u19	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? Here you go. First line, Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u20	I have no claim to understand anything much more than funding health care, a reply to my colleague Tsonev on the issue of the monopoly of the Health Insurance Fund. By creating another three-four-five health cases, they're going to make a monopolistic cartel and get the same result we have now. [[Shouting, MRF!]] I give you an example: we by law have forbidden one pharmacist to have more than two pharmacies at most four, under certain conditions. We have chains of 200-300 pharmacies right now, absolutely illegal, and we're doing nothing. They have formed a cartel, and the proof is that the prices of medicines in our country are higher than in Romania, Greece, Serbia and so on. And that, go denying it, and don't yell at me, but you just need to take some action, only you're talking in another direction, not in the one you should.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u21	And who's in charge?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u22	Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u23	Dear Mr. Tsonev! Since you were talking about quality finance, Mr. Goranov, please, I would like to inform Mr. Tsonev of something he shared about the rating system. Mr. Tsonev, the rating system has existed since 2010, if I'm not mistaken. Since last year, we have made amendments to the Higher Education Act together. The funding of higher education is now according to quality and not the number of students, so this is a reform that is already happening and very much please take it into account in your speech and in your policies.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u24	Is there a third line? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u25	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Tsonev, you said very briefly, but you said something that is not exactly that there is no reform in secondary school. That's not true. In short, what the budget offers and the Ministry of Education offers in pre-school and school education is a serious reform. It is a reform in the spirit of the programs of the United patriots and GERB. In short, I will say: the mechanism of forming delegated budgets, which is aimed at ensuring a normal funding of all Bulgarian schools, regardless of where they are, no matter how many students there are. When the time comes, we will discuss this issue in detail, but I will only recall that the presentation of this reform in the financing of pre-school and school education was welcomed by all representatives of the Education Committee, not positively, but with admiration. So this brief note is incorrect, inaccurate and in terms of preschool and school education. There are not only reforms in the draft budget, there is a deep design. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u26	Thank you, Assoc. Mihov. Mr. Tsonev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to my colleagues for the lines, they only confirm my analysis........................................................................................... [[Noise and lines on the right.]] Yeah, I'll tell you why. If there are criteria for rating higher education, which university is in the Top 500? Not one! Top 500! In the Top 1000 occasionally sneaks the Sofia University, in some rankings, occasionally. Because the basic criteria there, of their rating rankings are: after he has graduated from a student, how many months has he started working on, on what initial salary, and in what rank office? And so on and so forth. Besides, there's nothing to talk about, Europe told us that we have 52 universities and they asked us why. We just don't have to waste parliamentary time on this. It is obvious that higher education is not what it should be, otherwise children will not run tens of thousands abroad to study, and this creates a prerequisite for them to stay there, and not to mention what money their parents run for fees, and for supporting these children, and how it affects both gross domestic product and growth and everything else. Obviously, there are no such reforms. There are no reforms that will work. Regarding secondary education, I hear specialists who constantly say that semi-gramming people come from secondary school. It's a fact! There's plenty of specialists here. Can you list me more than three medium-sized schools whose personnel are listed in Europe and in the United States?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u28	Of course we can!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u29	No, you can't!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u30	I'll count you three hundred!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u31	You can't! I can count two or three, tell you. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] This is precisely why both programs and evaluation... You're talking about a reform of secondary school. How are they evaluated and what is the educational process in the Bulgarian higher education institution and in the American College? Have you made a comparison? There's no room for comparison at all. There's no comparison at all!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u32	It's like you've never been in power...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u33	Why are these systems that give the highest quality educational product not introduced to us? Why aren't they introduced? Look at them, and then talk. I continue to believe that if there are any reforms or beginnings of reforms, or any measures, they are absolutely unsystemic, incomplete and loose. This reflects, firstly, the amorphity of this coalition, made up of two entities that have nothing to do with each other as ideology and as programs, and also reflects the lack of vision what the country will look like today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u34	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. The word has the people's representative Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Ministers! Traditionally, when looking at a budget in the National Assembly, we refer to numbers, percentages, we exchange alternative understandings of growth of gross domestic product, deficit, budget balance. A conversation that deserves respect. It's a professional conversation. My colleagues will talk like that after me. I propose another approach to the discussion today, and I even refer to the words of Minister Goranov, which I did not expect by saying that this is a budget for the people. I suggest that we look at the budget not from your point of view, or from our point of view, but from the point of view of those for whom we are doing it, and I will refer to four studies by different agencies in recent months that have asked the people, which are their most important unresolved problems and what people say. Health, education, income and poverty and security are the four policies that await a decision from the political class. So, one at a time. People say that the most important thing for them is, outside the big cities, that they do not have access to hospitals. District and municipal hospitals are either bankrupt or no doctors or no supplies, and people don't have access to health care. Does Budget 2018 offer the government of Boyko Borisov a solution to this problem of the people? No! There's no solution! There are no policies here regarding state and municipal healthcare in areas outside three or four major cities. A second problem that people say is not us politicians, expensive medicines. Is there a budget decision to help people not have so much medicine? No, you won't! Moreover, you are predicting an increase in the policy on medicines and medical devices by 32 thousand. BGN, and for administration.. million and six hundred. Do you see the difference? People aren't worried about administration. They're worried about drug prices. However, the budget does not propose a solution to this problem. Third, they say "Surveillance of nurses and doctors." Is there a budget solution to this problem, a state policy for building staff and their detention in Bulgaria? There's no such thing as an offer. Here's what people tell us: we want you to solve these three problems! What does the government of Boyko Borisov say? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The health care funds are increasing where they will go, what will happen, God knows! People's problems are not solved through this budget as they see them, not us politicians. Second.. education and science. You say there's been a reform. Why is the result of this reform an increase in the number of children left in the last year, an increase in the percentage of illiteracy? So this reform doesn't have the effect you expected. So there's something wrong. Maybe it was brought to taking the money from state and municipal schools and giving it to private schools. A significant number of children don't go to school. Parents say, "We can't let them go to school because we don't have money. Does the budget offer a solution? No! There's no increase in funds for first graders! Secondly, people say: "Inequalitys between schools in the country, in large cities and in the countryside, and the opportunities these different schools give for training, for access to training for quality of education. Are there any proposals for a solution to this problem in the budget? [[GERB lines: There are.]] No, you won't! Inequality between schools in the country remains the same, because the principle is the same "money follows the student, and in small schools where there are few children, it affects the existence of the school. [[Speak and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u36	Please, order in the court! Don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u37	Third problem: lack of necessary personnel for the economy. We all know there's this problem. Does the budget provide for a policy to bind secondary, higher education and the needs of the economy? No! There is no such consistency and commitment of the entire process of education to business needs. By the way, the funds for state universities, state universities, because you boast a lot about the increase in education money, are a 20 million increase and they only cover the difference in minimum wage. Nothing more, such as politics, as reform and as a link of education to the economy! Here the good you offer is the increase in teachers' salaries. They deserve even more, and we will support you on that. There is no science policy in the budget at all. You do not offer serious funds for science and investment outside the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." It already has problems. The state has already lost 80 million due to problems in the Ministry of Education under this programme. This increase you are offering the bank is also just covering the difference in the minimum wage. No thought and policy of investing in science to pull both the economy and the growth in the country. A third topic that people point to in these researches is income and poverty. And here to talk about such a social, so large left budget. This is what this looks like practically, in living life. The relative share of costs for social payments decreased from 13.3% in 2017 to 12.4% in 2018. The relative share, the social contribution decreased! What's the problem here? Let's see with the real eyes of the people: 2 million. 829 thousand. 626 people receive monthly income of BGN 672 and 8 thousand. 614 people get 25,000. BGN 101. 37 times the difference! We're talking about inequality, thirty-seven times difference! Maybe Mr. Goranov is gone, but that 8,000. are those who are able to know who have developed well, only against the background of this three million are 670 leva. Don't they have engineers, doctors, smart people, professionals? I'm sure there is. Over two and a half million are in heavy materials deprivation, according to EUROSTAD. We've got poor people working. How do you solve these problems in the budget? You brag a lot about what is increasing, even the public debate is focused only on where, what funds are increasing. Let's talk about what you're freezing, fellow Members! You freeze the amount of single benefit in pregnancy, single birth assistance, single birth assistance, single child adoption assistance, single child support to female mothers, monthly child support up to one year of uninsured mother, single child support with permanent disability, monthly twin assistance, single adoption assistance, monthly assistance to children with permanent disabilities, maximum social security income and maximum pension. It's frozen. What kind of social budget is this? You see which groups of people you're freezing? People with disabilities, mothers, students. What demographic policy can we talk about with regard to these groups of people? What's increasing? The guaranteed minimum income with 10 leva. From 65 to 75 leva. Sounds very good, we support such a policy. What does it mean in practice? I will give you an example: the supplement for social integration of people with disabilities, as a result of this increase, grows by 4 BGN. Four levs per person with disability. What problem do we solve with 4 leva?? The minimum wage is growing. We will support this. Raising a child from one to two years is from 340 BGN. At 380 leva. This is below the minimum wage. Thirty-eight thousand insured mothers. Secured! Those who worked and paid their insurance will be damaged by 130 leva each. per month of this measure. Help for a child increases by 3 BGN. What do we do with 3 lv. Help for a child? What is helping him with this increase? The unemployment benefit becomes BGN 9 and this is far below the requirements of European, Bulgarian, world and all, for 60% of the minimum wage. The pensions increased by 3.8% from July 1st. On average, the different pensions receive an increase of 12 BGN. Well, does this social and very left-wing budget solve systemically, or does it at least initiate a systematic solution to the problem of inequalities and poverty? No, it's patching up a piece. And I ask the finance minister, when he made these accounts for a very social and left-wing budget, have you read colleagues, the following: the new price of natural gas for the third quarter is 2% higher than the second by decision of the DECVR. The new price of heat is about 3% up. The new price, average increase in the electricity sector, is 1,5% up, water in Sofia by 18%, in Montana by 19%, Plovdiv and Varna, not to list all cities. Have you seen the index of trade prices of the State Committee on Stock Exchanges and Trades in the last week? Fifty percent increase from 0.92 percentage points to 1,428. Fifty percent increase in basic foods by 50% according to the State Committee on Stock Exchanges and Trades! Put on this the increase in excise duties, place the increase in some local taxes and fees that the mayors were forced to take, place the increase in court fees. Yes, you don't raise taxes, but look at the increase we're talking about and the cost of life. Social spending in your budget in some areas does not even compensate for this increase, let alone provide a better social base for poor people and those who cannot handle themselves. Security is the last topic on which people expect us to solve. There must be a lot of other questions they're interested in, but these are the four priorities. Does this budget solve the main problems in the topic of Security? No! They are specified by the sector "Secure". The Department of Defense needs 6,000 people for an incompetence. This budget does not offer the provision of 6000 people, salaries and social security for these 6000 people. The Ministry of Interior is an incompletion of 5,000 people, according to the Ministry of Interior, according to the system they want to supplement. No funds are provided for the appointment of these people, for salaries and insurance, and you leave 380 BGN in the Ministry of Interior. determining the amount of basic monthly remuneration of the lowest position in this area. The funds for operational and combat training are insufficient to increase the training of troops. In 2018, due to budgetary constraints, there will again be insufficient nads of Air Force pilots and combined with problems of maintenance of aviation equipment will continue to pose risks to the lives of personnel. I think Mrs. Stoyanova or Mr. Goranov said: these are investments in security. What investments, colleagues? Today, we watch, you close the firehouse in one of the villages in Montansko last month in Samokov. In these increased disasters, accidents, floods and cataclysms, to shut down services that are the only ones who can react first?! By the way, these disasters are also the result of a wronged policy not only of natural upheaval. Instead of investing and guaranteeing the daily security of these people, there will be no police officer in every village that they have long understood. What investments in security by closing the most needed fire department in settlements that are constantly at risk! On the four issues that people ask us to solve, the budget of the government of Boyko Borisov 3 offers no solution. This is a budget of stagnation, I would even call it: this is the parallel budget of the parallel state, the state of government that looks down on, which does not want to see into people's daily problems, does not want to hear how to solve them. The parallel budget of the government, which is concentrated in numbers, accounts, macrorama, deficit, balance and so on, but not in living life. This is Budget 2018! Is there another option? There is, of course. Not mending the consequences of the problems, but removing the causes. A change in patterns, in the systems that gave birth to these problems. In health, yes, health care. We can discuss these issues, but we do not have a state policy for municipal and regional state hospitals. Accept the proposal to consider whether they should not drop out as trading companies, change in policy on clinical pathways, care for personnel, and not allow the drug mafia to set its own prices, steal from those prices, get rich on people's backs with regard to medicines. Education supposes the principle the money follows the student. State policy! State for state and municipal schools and their commitment to the economy and financing of the necessary specialties for the Bulgarian economy. This, of course, requires a prognosis, requires a long-term view, requires statehood to arrange it, seek agreement with other political forces and follow through the years. Incomes We propose one of the solutions to be the new tax system with progressive taxation. You're against this by thinking it's punishing the smart and the capable. No, and we want the smart and able to succeed, but these people should be solidarity in the society they live in. They don't live in an isolated world, they live in this society where three million people are on the brink of misery. Let each make his or her commitment to a solidarity society to ensure his or her development! You say this is the only possible budget. No! It's not just possible! Another budget is possible, not of stagnant, not of numbers, not of parallel, but of change, of development and of real life. From BSP for Bulgaria we will import it between first and second readings. Let our people know that the budget and policies of the government of Boyko Borisov 3 are not non-alternative. There's an alternative! The assessment of what it is, we will leave it to the Bulgarian citizens! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u38	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova! Are there any lines? Here you are, for a line, Mrs. Daritkova. As Mrs Daritkova moves, our guests are elderly people from the town of Tsar Kaloyan, Razgrad region. Let's welcome them! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u39	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! Dear Mrs. Ninova, your analysis has been spacious, but I can't help but note that in the sector it was incorrect. Is this due to the experts in your political power who have deceived you because you hardly know the sector that well? [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] , or that you want to instill untruths again, but the numbers you quoted are absolutely incorrect. In the case of today, the budget of the Ministry of Health is the subject of discussion. This budget for medicinal products takes very little of the medicines received by Bulgarian citizens. Through the budget of the Ministry of Health are paid vaccines for immunoprophylaxis, the therapy of some severe infectious diseases, such as tuberculosis, visceral leishmaniosis, malaria, so the funds are really as much as necessary to cover these diseases. It is very important to get a good pay for all experts who are in Regional Health Inspections, because your experts may suggest that those working there really need financial support in order to be able to carry out the control and policy of the Ministry of Health. It is very important that you know that the budget of the Ministry of Health for this year has been increased by a total of 36 million. lv. In the framework of really a small part of the funds that go to health care, because most of the medicines Bulgarian citizens receive them through the National Health Insurance Fund. [[GERB's reply: "This was yesterday. "]] That was yesterday. And in this sense, patients' access to medicines should be realized precisely through our insurance fund. There is no way they have not fooled you on the topic of what should be the access to health care of Bulgarian citizens. It is not important to ensure that there is a hospital in every village, palanquin or town. The important thing is to have good outpatient medical attention. This is the logic of effective healthcare, this is the challenge of having sufficient general practitioners, enough specialists to enable Bulgarian citizens to be diagnosed and treated in a timely manner under this particular mechanism. All this is the subject of serious discussion, but in any case we must be correct, stick to the facts and rely on expertise. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u40	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Any other lines? Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Ninova, I will make an objection in relation to your alternatives in the direction of education, in three aspects. You said the alternative was to drop the system the money follows the student. I think it was also pointed out by people who said before me that this system was changing. For the first time in a few years, the delegated budget system has changed exactly the principle for which you are saying that a piece of money should be given to a student. Now there will be a slender formula that will determine both permanent conditional costs and the quality of education that we very much care about and the different criteria that affect distance, inaccessibility of settlements and so on. That is, your alternative, which is only in words, we turn it into practice. Secondly, what you claim about the problems in the education system is yes, there are problems and there have always been, there will probably be in the future, but for the first time the current team of the Ministry of Education and Science has started an organized system on which the return of students to school started. At the moment, I can't quote the exact figure, but as far as I know, over 18,000 students have been sent back into the education system. I mean, they've been taken off the street to have perspective, to have their future development. So when you talk about alternatives, about what is not proposed in the current budget and the reforms that will happen in education, you are not objective. And just one more accent from your speech. Education must meet the requirements of business. We've always said that's true. But for the first time in the state budget, a very clear priority is placed on vocational education. Much more funds are allocated, the specialties needed for the Bulgarian business are supported. Therefore, correct your alternatives in the direction of not just being in words before the Bulgarian society, but to really see that real action is being done and they are being done by the current team of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. Is there a third line? I won't. Mrs. Ninova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u43	Mrs. Daritkova, I did not refer for a reason to experts, but to studies of people's opinions, and I built my entire speech on this basis of trying to solve what they see as a problem, not what we think as a political force. You say it's very important for hospital care, and not so much for municipal and regional hospitals. Okay, but how many people in Bulgaria do not have access to one, even to hospital care? How many people don't have access to a personal doctor, to a diagnostic? A lot! So you're telling me: "No, the problem is not in municipal and regional hospitals, but in the hospital. " That is, to my words, that you have a huge problem in public health policy, you add another one, which you admit is growing the problem even further. We are not opposed to increasing people's salaries in the health system. I pointed out this ratio to see the huge difference. [[GERB lines]] And I know we're looking at the Ministry of Health's budget, so don't doubt that. I pointed it out to see the huge difference between $32,000. lv. And a million and six hundred. Increase people's salaries, they need it. But look at the difference in policy: in the drugs.32 thousand, for administration.. 1 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. You are right that there is already a division in delegated budgets. There's a beginning to change. But the amount of money follows the student. So you haven't changed anything there, and it's likely to continue in the coming years. You're bringing students back to school. Okay. How? With the police, with the search and the force. Guys, it's a fight against consequences! That's not a fix. The families themselves say what the problem is: we are poor and we have no money to send them to school. That is why we propose to solve the real problem, not to fight its consequences. The next thing you say is that there is a movement in terms of vocational secondary education, but is there a commitment to higher education? I won't! Fifty-two universities all the majors that everyone has decided they should. Is there a state policy to finance those majors in state universities to guarantee graduates for the economy? The middle school relationship is gone. You're doing it in a piece, and there's some changes in vocational education, middle school, but there's no connection to higher and economics. That is why our proposal is for a full analysis of strategic thinking about what economy the state will develop in the next 10 years and linking the staff with a guarantee that they will be able to find a job after completing higher education. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u44	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mrs. Zaharieva. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u45	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! It is no secret to me and to my colleagues in the Chamber that when it comes to education, on the left there are always apocalyptic paintings, there is always an attempt to create chaos among the public, among the guilds, among the parents. Another proof was the speech just now on the subject of education [[(GERB's reply: She left.]] Yes, she can leave, but in fact the truth is another and more importantly, another is that meeting with people, meeting with parents, meeting with teachers, meeting with children is a living room and leads to a real feeling and real facts about development in the system of education, to which GERB has been related since 2009. I, Members of Parliament, will begin my speech on the 2018 Budget for the Education sector by sharing the views of our colleagues from the opposition during the two meetings of the Committee on Education and Science when we looked at the budget and the changes it brings. Best budget for preschool and school education! The best team of the Ministry of Education, which have a strategic vision, plan the activities so that things are connected. It's a fact! [[Applause from GERB.]] I will not comment on the total figures, because everyone knows them and it was no coincidence that the speech was not commented because there is a growth in money for secondary education, there is an increase in money for higher education, there is an increase in money for science. All this fake news that my colleagues just tried to put together and send back into public space, I'm going to try to disprove it now, and I'm sure I can. It is not important whether I will be able to disprove you from here, in fact more importantly, that the whole system in the sector of education and education will feel the strong support of the state behind them next year. The teachers will feel it, the parents will feel it, and I am sure that we, as a society, will feel the benefits of the well-prepared children and students in Bulgaria after years. What will be done with all the plus funds that are nearly half a billion in the secondary education system? Support will be provided to pedagogical specialists and attracting young people into the profession; the reforms and implementation of the measures laid down in the Pre-school and School Education Act will be ensured; the full coverage of all educationable children and students will be worked on preventing dropping out of the education system, and reintegration of early leavers; quality, vocational education in partnership with the business and compliance with the needs of the labour market will be ensured. Dear colleagues, I can see that you are not particularly interested in hearing the good countries in the sector of Education, which gives the budget, but I will say that we have always worked with the clear awareness that without literate people there can be no economic stability and prosperity. Our categorical political position is that the good teacher is at the heart of the whole process and we, as governors, invest in motivated and prepared teachers. For 2018, when we talk about more money for secondary education, we are actually talking about the biggest investment in people, the growth in the funds for quality specialists and young people at every point of Bulgaria, without exception, or speaking with the language of the budget, are envisaged 240 million. lv. For the increase in teachers' salaries by 15% from September 2017 and 14 million $700,000. lv. for reimbursement of the costs of transport or rent for accommodation of pedagogical specialists. Since 2018 the system of delegated budgets has changed! Here's the first lie that was told just now from this tribune that the system doesn't change. On the contrary, it is changing, and with several steps and systems that will lead to a more correct distribution of serious financial resources in the secondary education system. In addition to the number of children, the number of classes and groups will be taken into account, a regional coefficient will be introduced which reflects the geographical and demographic characteristics of the municipality and the region, determining differences in the necessary costs for ensuring equal access in the Education Department. Another lie you just told. The new funding model, honourable Members, in secondary education will definitely remove the recent inequalities and give access to education in the least populated place in our country. In order to implement the policies of the Preschool and School Education Act, additional funds are also provided for the more complete coverage and collection of educationable children. This point of reference for the inclusion of police in all institutions is being heard for several months, but it is a fact, honourable Members on the left, that the mechanism has given its results. The fact is that when we want to deal with a problem, we need to do it together... all the institutions on which this depends and which can be useful. This mechanism will continue its work because it is a positive measure and additional funds for next year's budget are allocated to 35 million. lv. Something extremely important.. 6.5 million. lv. are the fixed funds to be made available to schools and kindergartens at the expense of suspended family aids for children who do not attend educational institutions. It is extremely important to emphasise the additional funding not only of the protected schools that we have had so far, but also of the new element in protected kindergartens, which once again allows for quality education in every place in our country. Provision of free transport to children and students, including such transport to vocational schools, which is not available in the nearby locality where children live. Provide quality vocational education. Another lie we heard a moment ago is false news that there is no link between vocational education and no long-term thought in this policy. On the contrary, there are funds available to work in the sector of "Middle vocational education" and the training to be prepared together with the partnership of the business. Additional funds are provided to schools that train students in professional fields with future labour market shortages. A little later I'll say, when it comes to higher education, how this has a look and dimension there. There are many activities that will be able to be carried out within the framework of the estimated funds for the sector "Education": a full-time organization of the learning process. lv.; student scholarships "almost 26 million."; student dorms.. 22 million. lv.; cognitive books, textbooks for all students from the 1st to the 7th grade and study groups lv.; support the feeding of the children from the preparatory groups, students to IV class lv.; Children's transportation.. 34 million lv.; maintenance of buses provided to transport schools; inclusive education for children with special educational needs lv.; the appointment of psychologists and pedagogical advisors at each school and kindergarten; activities for development interests and support of the centers for support for personal development lv.; improvement of the material base of municipal and state kindergartens and schools; more than 62 million lv.; National Education Development Programmes lv.; support for Bulgarian schools abroad and preservation of Bulgarian communities and Bulgarian national identity abroad lv.! Here, gentlemen and ladies, all these funds are in support of the children, the parents, the school, so that we can really build in them quality children - children who will develop and be useful not only to themselves as individuals, but also to our society. Higher education. We just heard there wasn't any money left. On the contrary, there is growth in higher education as well. It is not true that we do not have a policy in terms of quality specialties and development of higher education institutions! Regarding their number, I will say that it is not a fact of GERB's activities, but a fact of the activities of many governments before us. For higher education, the most important thing I would like to stress is that the budget will continue to implement the policy of stimulating quality by changing the financial model. Profile and specialization of state universities, restructuring of the admission to professional fields with expected higher future demand in the labour market. Improve the rating system of all schools and provide public guarantees for student loans. The realization of these policies and the link between support in secondary education of important professional directions, the support of state specialities and professional directions, which have a focus on sought major specialties.. This is the link between secondary/high education and the realization of the labour market. The figures for higher education for 2018 increased by almost 28 million. lv. Additional funds are provided to support the training of students based on the results of the training and not on a kaplak. Nine million were also secured. lv. to cover the increased amount of scholarships of students from Bulgarian communities abroad. And one more thing, a very important extra scholarships for students studying in priority professional directions! Science. The budget for science also has growth. With their growth in these costs are provided priority funds for the following activities and policies: increase of the transfer of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Agricultural Academy, increase the amount of the scholarship for PhD students. And very please, slowly and loudly I will read the next [[(experience in BSP for Bulgaria..).......................................................)................................................................................................................................................................................................]] : increase the effectiveness of investment in science through funding of scientific organisations depending on the results achieved, increase the share of programme-competitive funding of research and for the implementation of the national roadmap for scientific infrastructure! [[Radio, noise in BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u46	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u47	The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. are set aside for further That's right, it's not pleasant when we can disprove your lies from here. But I want to graduate from the education budget set the funds for specific policies! It brings money for quality money against which the state will require quality! Let me repeat what I started with at the beginning that Budget 2018 in its part "Education" is a budget of the stable and consistent policies of the political party GERB! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u48	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u49	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Ministers! Mrs. Zaharieva, great words, great numbers, everything's fine. Of the 54 million you give to attend children with disabilities school, do you know how many of them go to school? Twenty percent of 100. 80% do not attend school. And that's an effective use of 54 million! I'll use that 54 million more effectively. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Second line, please, Mrs. Anastasova. [[Reply from the hall: "You must extend the time! "]] The time is extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u51	Dear Madam President, ministers gentlemen, colleagues! Mrs. Zaharieva, my line will be very short. Perhaps at second reading, we will have plenty of time to speak more. Since you have repeatedly said that on the left you hear nothing but lies, I have never been accused of lying before just because I say what I have seen with my own eyes. Here's my line. Yes, the value of money follows the student is in a measly version that is the truth. He's not changed, he's in a mellow way. When, with my modest economic and accounting opportunities, I made a simple account: for a school of 100 - 150 children, what would change the new way of distribution, taking into account the number of classes, not just students, without claiming to be true from the last instance, I was not such a person, it turned out that between 2 and 4 - 5% would increase their funds. Between 2:00 and 4:00 p.m., 5% of the current model. In a word, whether there are reforms in education or not, we are about to find out. Not yet. And my deep conviction is that this Law did not set reforms or, let's say, did not set them properly. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u52	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. Third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u53	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, we were impressed by the incredible Komsomol flame with which you read the supporting points for the incredible well-being that will take place in the field of education. We were even worried that the flow of refugees in Bulgaria could increase because they would prefer our education system after the amazing things you said. One question for you: can we compare the Bulgarian and Finnish education system? Are there private schools in secondary school? How does Finland finance their secondary education? Do students have to pay extra for some extracurricular activities there? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Mrs. Zaharieva, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u55	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Thank you so much for the lines. I was extremely surprised because you once again gave me a tone to continue in my pathos. If you think the pathos are Komsomol, thank you for the compliment, because I am long past the years of your Komsomol organizations. But actually my pathos comes from being part of the system of Bulgarian education and together with colleagues we explained during the campaign how much we can do and how much we have done. I do not want to waste time, because just every minute is valuable, but I will tell you that since 2009 GERB has been constantly growing teachers' salaries and is seeking quality reforms in the education sector. The only year in which there was no increase in teachers' salaries, Mr. Stoinev, was in the management of Mr. Oresharski. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] Now the lines. The 80-20% ratio I won't comment on because it's very interesting. I have respect and fear of what you say about 80% of the people in this country. With regard to the Law, I do not see Mrs. Anastasova. I know that colleagues who are members of the BSP in the left area are extremely supportive of everything that happens for secondary education, because they are also people of the system and know how good the directions and measures are. Yeah, there's a lot to build on. I thank them for supporting us in the Commission. But I want to say that I also understand the general message of the left that they could not cope with the changes to the Law on Vocational Education and Training and we did it. I'm sorry, but we had the power, the ability and the energy to do it. And for the Finnish system, thank you very much. This is a model of an educational system that I would like us all to strive for. There are so many good practices in Finland that we can bet. There children do not repeat, there children choose textbooks, there children and teachers have an exceptional freedom of teaching and a learning process. I wish everyone together to be here in this Chamber or elsewhere in our country, but to be proud that Bulgarian education has achieved much of the Finnish education system, because it will only help us to have a more quality society in the years. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u56	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Mr. Mirchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u57	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! I will continue the topic of education. Mrs. Zaharieva spoke with a high pathos, but let us remind that the developed societies in Europe and in the world are because they invest precisely in education and science. Here we are told that from this year and GERB will do it with its new budget. Although there are such strokes, the real situation is slightly different. What do I mean? First, I'll start with the only positive that really raises the money for teachers' salaries. A lot of the money for high school will go right there. Several steps are also taken in the way of funding a change in the way of funding secondary education, but are small and insufficient. That's it. That's it. That's it. Why won't the funding work? Because in haste to pass your new law, the standard of school environment is not ready yet, and until this standard is included in the way of funding schools, what colleague Irena Anastasova said, schools under 200 students will not see money at all! Five percent for a school like this is absolutely nothing. Once again, the money will go to the big schools, and the small ones will die in the small towns. Let me remind you that for the first time in Bulgarian history in Budget 2018 money will be diverted to private institutions in the school system! Real money is raised, but as a percentage is 3.6 of gross domestic product. In other words, there is no real increase because incomes are rising. The money should be raised for an average salary. The money follows the student. It remains detrimental to secondary education and does not allow our system to be competitive. Defectiveness of the secondary education regulatory base you accepted has also been proven by the reply of the Constitutional Court, which arrived yesterday [[shows him]] and says that our complaint will be admitted to consideration because there are discrepancies found on the members we said. The normal base for secondary education is defective and this money in a defective way will not do the work for which it is intended. I'm going to say a few words about higher education, where things are worse. The raise is $20 million, but it will only cover the minimum wage. The continuing lack of funding in state higher schools contrasts with the imaginary goals you set yourself. Here, too, the money follows the student and the lack of funds in the whole system again will not lead to anything positive. Not to mention you haven't spent a penny on student dorms that are in a very difficult state for 10 years. And here in the system, the relationship between secondary and higher education. Excuse me, colleagues, when we don't invest in higher education, how are we going to create teachers to train teachers? In science, genocide is extreme. I will just tell you: the European Commission recommends a double increase in money for science. They're gone. NSI reports a meltdown in scientific activity. Foreign investments decreased by 32 million. lv. From 2012 to 2016, state funds fell ten times and people in science by 8,000 people. Young scientists have no reason to stay because 480 assistants and about a thousand chief assistants are on minimum wage. With this budget, you are again lying that there will be money for science, and now money is cut off from the European Union. I will finish with one comment from Minister Goranov. Your attitude towards science is shown precisely by him and the higher schools. He said: high schools are damaging the country. Colleagues, you from GERB, and Minister Goranov are damaging the country. It's not a budget of survival, it's a budget of liquidation, but it doesn't surprise me. Given that the Prime Minister has only read Vinetou, it is normal for him to lead us as Indians to extinction. Thank you. [[Applause on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u58	Mr. Mirchev, I'm making a formal remark! Replies to Mr. Mirchev's statement? I don't see any lines. I give the floor to the Minister of Education Mr. Valchev who asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the speeches I heard, generally, two groups of criticisms. Some of them, from a more liberal point of view, that funds are being poured into the education system, and they are not bound by results, are not bound by reforms. Another party to the left that the funds are not sufficient or that they exist and will continue to have inequalities. If we are talking about reforms, generally, there are three groups of activities that are related to the relationship between reforms and money. One is reforms that do not require any funds. Such reforms have been made. These are, for example, the changes related to study plans, study programs and another large part of the changes resulting from the Preschool and School Education Act. There are other reforms that require funds, but they are not so many. This is, for example, the relationship with the labour market and such changes are proposed. If you look at the Transitional and Final Provisions, you will see a provision for a change in the Preschool and School Education Act to bind vocational education to the demand for the labour market. Such a mechanism will be developed and it will be in force from the academic year 2018/2019. And the third large group of activities are those that require only money. Only money requires investment in teachers or mainly money requires investment in teachers. By the way, this is the difference between the Bulgarian and Finnish education system that in Finland teachers become students of the ten percent with the highest educational results at the outcome of high school education. That is, they have made a public, political and budgetary choice to invest in teachers, and for this reason, in the long term, they have managed to increase educational results. Giving money to teachers is today's investment in education for 20 years. This is not pouring, this is watering a tree that we want to give fruit, because if we follow the purely liberal approach that we should give only to the one who guarantees results, it's like saying that we will only water this tree that has given fruit. This approach is wrong! In terms of inequalities. The fact is that inequalities will be less after these changes. The less you can say, the more you can't answer in total. The funds being provided are not like a large percentage, but in terms of small schools, a number of small schools are obtained as a very high percentage. I am pleased that we have a common opinion on the changes in the delegated budget system, including on the concept: the number of students will remain a factor, but it will be rather a distribution quantity and not the basis of the concept. There's no way that funding a school doesn't depend on the number of students. The leverage point for private schools can now be dropped because the funds that will be provided to private schools will be less than 2 million. lv. Against the background of a 3 billion framework. 800 million. lv. With an increase of over half a billion, 2 million. lv. to claim that they have increased illiterateness and dropping out, and even if they have not yet been given, well, excuse me, but it is, to put it mildly, an unjustified thesis. Likewise with regard to higher schools. On the one hand, you say that these funds were only for the minimum wage, on the other hand, that there is no connection with the labour market, but they are allocated precisely in relation to the system of complex assessment of quality and compliance with the needs of the labour market. If we want to increase wages, then we must give up the commitment policy to the labour market. One note to a reply "to Mr. Tsonev, we have one of the best systems for assessing the implementation and it is internationally recognised, with full, accurate and verifiable information on a number of indicators for realization, which makes it a very good tool for linking the financing and restructuring of the reception with the realization. Yes, some higher schools will experience this restructuring painfully, but if we want to have a relationship with the labour market, this is one. The other thing that is being done with this budget in this regard is the planning of 9 million. lv. additional for scholarships in priority professional directions. Priority professional directions are the tool to which we link today's demand for the market for education to future needs in the labour market. In other words, the tool by which we want to direct some students to study on these unwanted specialities and professional directions, such as engineering-technical, pedagogy or less desirable than future demand. That is, we have at least two instruments with which we do it in the system of higher education and one in the system of vocational education, with this budget, although the budget itself is not a change, is not the package of reforms that are being proposed. The main thing is that we should have good teachers if we want to have a good education and tomorrow's investments in education start with today's investments in teachers, and, again, to Mr. Tsonev, it has been proven on an international scale that the public program "Preschool and school education" is the highest rate of public return that exceeds the average rate of return of private investment, so this pouring, which is being talked about, is an investment. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u60	Thank you, dear Minister. We're continuing the debate. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The government budget project for 2018 is based on the election programs of GERB and the United Patriarchs, which are based on the management program of the current government. In this sense, we continue fulfilling the promises to Bulgarian citizens. The main focus of the 2018 budget is income policy and social change. I will do just a few accents that are important to be noted, as they reflect the overall policy of GERB and "United patriots" and show a serious attitude towards raising the incomes of Bulgarian citizens. We continue the policy of investment in education, and we have always argued that the prestige of the teaching profession should be increased, which prepares future staff for the economy. Ever since the adoption of the Preschool and School Education Act, we have argued that the dignity of the teaching profession should be guaranteed through a serious remuneration for this work and a progressive increase in education funds. As we can see, this accent is already in next year's budget. After the start of the new school year, teachers' salaries were raised by 15 percent, a further 15% increase will follow in 2018. By the end of the term of office, the salary of the Bulgarian teachers will double. The security sector has been in need of more funds for a long time. Along with the money for re-arming and modernization of the Bulgarian army, 100 million. lv. additionally will be allocated to increase the salaries of the Bulgarian soldiers. After funds for uniform equipment were provided to police officers in 2017, another 55 million will be added next year. lv. to raise the remuneration of the staff in the Ministry of Interior. In the field of culture, serious attention is paid to the performing arts such as dramatic theaters, puppet theaters, Philharmonics and symphonys will receive 10 million. lv. more than this year, which will be aimed at improving their vital level. $8 million. lv. increased funds for community centers. This unique Bulgarian institution has suffered problems in this year, but in the next year not only will there be no shortage and there will be no need for the secretary-librarians and the Chitalishte figures to go on unpaid leave during the summer months so that they can be included within the defined budget, but there will also be an opportunity with these funds. BGN, which I mentioned, to raise their salaries. The funds for archaeological excavations are increased and in 2018 they will reach 3 million. lv. This will seek the opportunity for new research, conservation, restoration and socialization of archaeological sites, which in perspective will become attractive to tourists places. In the social sphere, a 10% increase in social workers' salaries is expected. The financing of the services continues as an opportunity for better care for the elderly and children with disabilities. A sustained increase in the minimum wage is envisaged. In 2018, it increased to 510 BGN, in 2019 it will be 560 BGN and in 2020. 610 lv. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, our compatriots want the increase in income to be much faster and in much larger proportions. On the other hand, the position of business against this type of formula of increasing the minimum wage has already been clearly expressed. We therefore believe that the balance must be sought and it must be consistent with the economic growth of the country. There is no country in the world, ladies and gentlemen, to direct its entire budget solely for social needs. It is necessary to allocate funds for infrastructure, to stimulate production, to prepare staff, which will allow for the increase of economic growth and the opening of new jobs in the real sector. Unfortunately, the state has no mechanisms to increase the incomes of people in the private sector, except by determining the amount of minimum wage. The indicators of the budget forecast for the following years are encouraging. Those increases in the areas I have just named have sustainability and will increase by the corresponding percentage annually. With this we will strive to bring the incomes in Bulgaria closer to the average European level. And since, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we adopted the public security budget, just a few words in this direction, as I did not have the opportunity to say them yesterday. I'm drifting away from today's topic. In 2017 only in the first six months of the management of the current cabinet, the minimum pension was increased to 200 BGN. That's an increase of nearly 25%. It affected 824 thousand Bulgarian citizens. In the following year, our efforts continue in the direction of providing additional funds for an increase in pensions. We believe there are such reservations. In our election programme and in the subsequent months of this government, of this National Assembly, we have repeatedly named the source that can provide these funds. Those are the so-called false-receipts. It is not normal for 7 million people in Bulgaria to have more than 900,000 disability pensions. This costs the budget more than a billion and 600 million. lv. The review and release of several hundred million leva through the elimination of the so-called invalid pensioners will provide some serious funds with which the pensions of the other Bulgarian pensioners can be increased and, as you know, honourable Members, the strategy for determining the expertise has already been submitted to the National Assembly, so that the application of the................................... is aimed at supporting the budget and addressing our fellow citizens:................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u63	Thank you, Madam President. I am using the case that Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov is here to say that what we have heard from our colleague contains honest lies regarding the budget of the sector. You, under the security sector, understand only the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Interior. Let's look at the budgets of the State Agency of Intelligence, of Military Information. Do you realize what this is about? Keeping a leash on people who literally put their lives on the line to protect national interest. Miserable means! And we ask them to respond to new challenges. Is there any idea of the colleague who spoke, on what salary he received at the State Agency, a man with two languages, one of whom is rare? 3,000, 5,000? I'll tell him with two minimum wages, Mr. Tsvetanov. Be so kind when you talk about the security sector, learn what the budget says and not insult such a prestigious profession! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Bogdanov's doppelganger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u65	Dear Mr. Velkov! The information you present at the moment is political, and you often like to use words like lie and someone uses lies and you actually express these, but then you disown them. But it's your political power's problem. I mentioned that I would only name some of the highlights of the budget, I have not done a comprehensive analysis. There is a second reading that will have a much deeper discussion. I have named the exact figures that are set out in the 2018 budget, and if you think these figures are a lie, you can name them once again from the stands. But I don't think it does you any honor to insult in this way and to tell the truths that are there that are a lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. Any other speeches? Come in for a statement, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u67	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will quote you one thing: the Strategic objective of the MLSP in the field of integration policy of disabled people is the integration of people with disabilities in all areas of public life by creating conditions and guarantees for equality, social integration and the exercise of their rights, support for people and their families, as well as their integration into a working environment. This, fellow Members, is part of the budget programme "Integrating people with disabilities." Behind those words, unfortunately, there is absolutely nothing. People with disabilities continue to be the most rejected part of our society. You know, out of 326 million for social integration, you give 270 thousand. The budget is entitled "Integration of people with disabilities." For me, this is absolutely nonsense. Either you don't know the meaning of the word "integration" or I'm wrong. Did you know that in normal countries, this money is given to people with disabilities not to support themselves, that is, food and heating, but to compensate for their damage to some extent? Do you actually know how many social integration supplements there are? Mrs. Angelova can answer that question. And honourable MPs, by giving some money for one thing, are expected some results. And here are your results: benefits and effects indicators, target values, cultural, historical and sporting sites adapted for people with disabilities, 9; opened new jobs for people with disabilities under art. Art. 25, Art. 28.. 54. And here comes the very interesting integration of disabled people into society by providing them with translators and chaperones for visits to public, health and cultural institutions. 500. I'm very interested in how you integrate a disabled person by attending a hospital, a state administration or a theater? Or we're literally sending these people to the movies. I hope I have not offended you in any way, because in the end, what I have said is your budget programme and your budget forecasts. This is what we get for 326 million in the budget programme "Integrating people with disabilities." Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u69	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! I will not comment on how the most important Bill, the one for the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, was not published according to the regulatory requirements of art. 26, para. 3 and para. 4 of the Law on Legislative Acts. That's what I leave to the conscience of his importers. Budget 2018 is a budget of the status quo. There is no philosophy and politics in it. Once again, it is just an accounting report, not a development plan. The purpose of the budget is to suppress tensions in society, not to conduct adequate policies in the priority sectors announced by the ruling coalition. This becomes crystal clear by looking at the cost structure of functions. Although the ruling coalition in its programme has brought out the sectors of health protection, education and security, the funds that will receive these so-called priority sectors are 4.5, 3.6 and 4,2%, respectively, as a percentage of GDP in 2018. By comparing these values with the corresponding 2008 figures. It is clear that as a percentage of GDP, only the costs of health are increasing. Is there a change in quality in these ten years? The problems in this sector have not been solved, despite the double increase in funds from 2.8 billion in 2008 to the planned 4.7 billion in 2018. This is an indicative example that the government is pouring huge funds into a non-reformed sector without a clear vision of governance, leading to a huge cost inefficiency. Within the proposed budget, there is no government policy that would lead to overcoming deep regional problems, reducing differences in employment and income in different regions of the country. There is no public investment that is an engine of sustainable growth. In the case of frozen private investments, the state has a catalytic effect and are the only way to increase GDP growth. European funds cannot play the role of foundation. They are only a necessary addition to the National Investment Programme. The lack of public investment will only increase regional differences. Small and medium-sized enterprises are more than 97% of all companies in Bulgaria and 70 are concentrated in southern Bulgaria. In the poorest regions of Northern Bulgaria, Strandzha Sakar and the Rhodopes, the problem of unemployment and low pay will not be solved, but will deepen. The developed targeted investment programme for integration "Development of the lag regions in Bulgaria" was ignored. There is not even a minimum means for the beginning of its realization. Revenues in Budget 2018 have been underestimated again. The Ministry of Finance left about a billion out of the scope of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, that is, these funds will be distributed without the control of the National Assembly. This continued the practice of the Ministry of Finance from 2017, during which four times the forecast of GDP was revised, which is due to the overexecution in the revenue section. In conclusion, I will repeat that Budget 2018 is a budget of the status quo, which does not offer any reforms. The declining trend of the rate of redistribution of the medium-term budget forecast for the period 2018 - 2020 shows a lack of vision for governance and will not lead to catch-up economic growth. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, are there any lines to Mr. Kirilov's statement? I can't see. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. The debate will continue after the break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u71	Honourable Members, we are continuing the debate on the budget. Mrs. Christova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u72	Madam President, honourable Members! I'd like to ask the finance minister a question, but he's not here right now. I hope he answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u73	Please invite the Finance Minister to the Chamber. Here you are, Mrs. Christova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u74	I would like to ask you a question: why was the total amount of the fiscal reserve at 31 January 2017 of 13 billion? 841...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u75	Who are you asking? There's no one here!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u76	They'll be invited. I've asked the Quaestors to invite the ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u77	... decreased by 30 September 2017 to an amount of 11 billion. Eight hundred and sixty-seven, that is, with nearly two billion. lv. I want him to give us an answer as to what these fiscal reserve funds are used for, given that at the moment the surplus in the budget is 2 billion. And 400 million. lv. Another thing I would like to ask: according to the government, education is at stake in Budget 2018 as a top priority in management. However, this is not evident from the information provided in the report. If we arrange the cost of functions according to their share of gross domestic product, which information is available in the report, we will see the following. First of all are the cost of economic activities and services of 5.6%; second place is the health care of 4.5%, third is defence and security by 4.2%, and only fourth is education by 3.6%, and for science the costs are less than 1% and are included in the common services function. The high share of state spending for economic activities and services has been traditional for many years, but it is never mentioned and is not considered analytically when discussing the state budget. And now it does not explain specifically what costs are set out in the figure 6 billion. lv. Reforms in BDZ, for Bulgarian Posts, for some other types of services, explain about 500 million. lv. For the difference of 6 billion. no information has been provided. There must be an explanation for the other billions. It is good to be given an account of what these 6 billion will be used for when discussing the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u78	Thank you, dear Mrs. Christova. Replies to Mrs. Christova's statement? I don't see any lines. General Popov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u79	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! It is obvious that a budget cannot solve absolutely all problems with a magic wand in all spheres. It's especially true about the defense sphere. We've been discussing the defense sphere for a long time, there's been some serious problems over the years, over decades. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] You'll calculate decades more correctly, but it's decades. As a matter of fact, since 1992, the defence budget has been systematically falling. Can this budget solve absolutely all the problems in the area of defence? It's obvious he can't. It's obvious he can't! Here, very rightly from the opposition, they say they should follow policies. What merit does the budget have in the field of defence? There are at least two virtues. The first dignity is the care of the personnel. Over 100 million people are given for personnel. And what we talked about in campaign campaigns, I remember and BSP colleagues correctly imposed the topic, is that there must be an increase in the income of the soldiers by 10%. Only nine months later, with this budget, this was fulfilled, for God's sake, let's vote on it. There will also be a subsequent increase, as set out in the medium-term budgetary forecast. Is there going to be a problem with filling in personnel? Yes, there will be. This budget also provides a solution in this direction. An additional 1,300 people will be assigned. This is a huge number, and I think it will give the people in the Armed Forces a really good perspective. Of course, this is also at stake in the coming years. If we continue with this budget, we will have a filling-up with staff close to 100%, because every year, 1300 people, that makes about 5,000 people. So we're going to go to an incompletion of 2 times 3 percent. This non-completion is even healthy. Does it have anything to do with education? There is. An additional $6 million for current student allowance. Is that a little bit 6 million?! The second good part of this budget is, in my opinion, the attitude towards the future of the army, the modernisation, an additional 397 million. for 2018 total for the three years "1 billion" The Commission We are also talking about the acquisition of multifunctional patrol ships, and we are also talking about the acquisition of a new type of combat plane, but we are also talking about an additional 26 million. MiG-29. Two, three years ago, MiG-29's maintenance was in capital expenditure. The Ministry of Defence's capital expenditures have always been around 50 million, and now there are 55 million, which means we will now have nearly 80 million capital expenditures. We're going to give our pilots a breath of air, which really fly a little bit, so we can maintain their technique by 26 million. more. There's trouble. It's not enough, I agree. I absolutely agree! Is it the right direction? I think she's right. Of course, there is also an opportunity for internal restructuring of the budget. I wanted to welcome the Defence Minister here, of course, because the Defence Council has decided on this budget to provide an additional 20 million. for fuels. This in itself says that in the case of internal budget restructuring, attention can also be paid to the combat training and to our pilots to have more fuel, to have colleagues from the Land Forces have more teachings, to have better equipment in both the Land Forces and the Navy. Whether we are going to solve the main problems - yes, the direction is right for both personnel and for the future. In my opinion, this is the budget that provides the future and staff. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u80	Thank you, dear General Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! With its vote on the budget, the only proof is that it is a nationally responsible party and consistent in its actions and decisions. What do I mean? We will not allow our country to lose its budget, stop all sectors of the country and put it in a car accident. We will not allow and reject minimum education, health and security increases in the sector as minimally humiliating as we consider them. We remain critical that there is no policy in the budget. That was also clear from the debate. We're not talking about politics in the budget, we're talking politics. There is no policy regarding demographic collapse. There is no policy regarding reducing the administrative burden. There is also no policy to combat corruption and the grey economy. That's why we're gonna criticize you all the time. And if the budget is not being spent properly and every scandal we find out about is corrupt, we will not be idle, but, on the contrary, we will be uncompromising. Yesterday the government defined their budget as the possible budget. This means that this is the limit of their capabilities and the limit is exhausted. Once again, we will not leave our country without a budget. I would just like to say to you: the temporary short-term anesthesia in which you place the society, I say, is in the fastest way that every Bulgarian will understand that this budget does not aim to improve its lifestyle and its standard.... will quickly return as a boomerang. I would like to emphasise something very important.........that we support the budget and that we vote for the budget, do not consider it a vote of confidence to you. No! It's not like that! Consider it our national responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u82	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The issue on which I want to take account concerns investment in our economy. BSP will support all measures to stimulate greater economic growth and we want, of course, gross domestic product to grow on the basis of investment. However, let's look at the facts and data on foreign direct investment. They show that from January to August this year only 516 million euros have entered our country. This is a significant decline compared to the same period last year when around 1.1 billion euros entered the country, i.e. the reduction in just one year is about 54%. I would remind you that for the period 2009 - 2015, against the gross domestic product, foreign direct investment is seven times lower than the period 2005 - 2009. My focus is also on a statement by one of the vice prime ministers, who is now absent, in a popular television broadcast, where he explained that we should not only look at the amount of foreign direct investment, but also pay attention to the far more trusted indicator of basic capital. For the unfamiliar, I would remind the unfamiliar that it shows how much of the income in our economy the gross domestic product is used for investment. After 2010, unfortunately, the share of investments in gross domestic product fell and even decreased in 2016. Unfortunately, Bulgaria is outnumbered by all countries in the European Union by an average level of 36 per cent compared to the other countries of the Union. At first glance, the state tries to help investors through strategies, certificates, marketing and so on. However, the problems are bigger and require radical reforms. All more serious analyses on the issue of priorities point to the same shortcomings: lack of vertical integration, decline of applied research units in enterprises, weak commercialisation of innovation We cannot fail to conclude that an urgent change is needed. But in the budget policy of the government for 2016, we from BSP to Bulgaria see that such a change cannot be expected and it will not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Member, I will give you a very brief line. Are you familiar with the Doing Business study and where is Bulgaria, according to this study? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u86	Here you are, Mr. Danchev, to demonstrate knowledge.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The statement you made, Mr. Popov, is very correct because Bulgaria for the last year has fallen 11 places and is already 50th in this prestigious ranking, which shows how much an economy is arranged and attractive to foreign investors. In it we are not only already lag behind the other member states of the European Union, but also breathe the dust of our neighboring Balkan countries. Macedonia takes the prestigious 11th place, Serbia, Kosovo, Montenegro, Romania, all ahead of us. Apart from that, I would say that even the World Bank experts in a comprehensive report show the reasons for the weak growth of our economy and the extremely uneven distribution of goods in Bulgaria. These are corruption, the lack of reforms, the inability to start on an equal footing, the use of power as a means of gaining personal benefit and the possession of the state of elites and private interests. In fact, for 10 years Bulgaria's membership in the European Union, 7 of which in the management of the GERB model, we have an imitation of reforms and no commitment to improving the business environment and attracting new investments, respectively, to strengthen the home production. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u89	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is very important to use parliamentary tactics and primos when looking at a budget and to implement parliamentary procedures so that we can actually talk about policies and talk about the possibilities for the upcoming budget for the next calendar year. What made the impression is that colleagues from the opposition, in particular BSP colleagues, rely more on research, but not on real facts and institutions, what they have as real policies made over the past few years. For me it is extremely impressive what is set out in Budget 2018. For the first time we are talking about gross domestic product 106 billion. lv.; we are talking about reducing unemployment and what has already been found to be a serious shortage of skilled labour on the basis of the investments that have been made in recent years. Here we must also take into account the additional added value that will come for the development of the regions and the implementation of certain sectoral policies related to European funding. Because we need to know that European funding can be added value to the management of GERB, because we know that added value in the management of BSP, there can be no European funding, because it is simply stopped. What impresses us is that for 2018 we have more funds that are allocated to the priority of the current management. Just to say that the commitments that have started to be implemented since September this year will continue throughout the management mandate. Only for next year 330 million. lv. will be at the Fund Work pay for the Bulgarian teachers. Here we also need to add what we will do under the Programme for growth and growth for the education infrastructure of 624 million. lv. Since there has also been a lot of talk about the social theme, I do not think that the Members who spoke by the parliamentary majority have given very clear signals both yesterday's debate and today's that money is increasing and we will do everything we can to really do this redistribution from the 2018 budget to realise our main priorities in the management programme. It is very important that when the ministers are also present, they always contribute so that this political will in realising the designated management programmes can be a fact, thanks to the parliamentary majority that has today's forty-fourth Parliament. And today, more than ever, society needs security. Today, more than ever, society expects this economic growth, which we have for this year around 4%, to continue for 2018-2019 and be able to actually redistribute more resources so that we can make more policies. What is important and what has been said by the Finance Minister, the debt that is gradually decreasing this year, too, is 600 million. lv. will be precisely to cover this debt, which from 23% for 2018 will be 22%. Much less was said about the topic of Security. I believe it's Gen. Popov was the guy who said a little bit, but I can say that in the Security Sector the money will be more 100 million. lv. for the salary of the servicemen and employees of the Ministry of Defence and 55 million lv. in the Ministry of Interior system. These are opportunities that can contribute to increasing the motivation and performance of the professional duties of the security system employees. Yes, we can really say that they need more money because there is no sectoral policy that we do not take into account that it is underfunded, but let us bear in mind, however, what was said in the morning debate by the Minister of Finance, that the state should not increase the deficit, because we should not increase this debt, which will be for generations after us. Because we are responsible politicians and we can say quite proudly today that the 2018 budget is much better than that for 2017, 2016, 2015 and in times better than 2014, when you left a deficit of 5.5 the government then in the face of the BSP, which was a mandate carrier, and the bankruptcy of the KTB, and all that you did to the state to get away from the only possible path that this is the European one. GERB, together with the parliamentary majority, we are actually receiving the support of both the European Commission and the European Union, not only in connection with the upcoming Presidency, but because we have a real political will to make changes and make sectoral policies to be evaluated and to fill with content this deficit, which has been established by the European Commission in recent years. The very fact that yesterday were given very high marks for Bulgaria, for the Bulgarian government and for Prime Minister Boyko Borisov means one thing: there can be no political power or opposition today to ask for a vote of no confidence in these economic and financial parameters that the state has. There is no normal opposition today that will stand out of the parliamentary tribune saying that they will make a no-confidence vote so that they can hinder the presidency that is coming to our country. Dear colleagues, be responsible, be wise, because the Presidency given to Bulgaria ten years after we have been accepted into the European Union means a lot! This is pride both for Bulgaria and for all citizens of Bulgaria, but it is also pride for Romania, because you know that Bulgaria and Romania work together, both for Schengen, but also let us bear in mind that from 1 January 2019 our Romanian colleagues will be presiding over the European Union, and we with them are like docked vessels, because you know that 2007 when we entered the European Union, we were adopted together. Together we will be accepted in the Schengen area and together we will be able to make regional policies that will actually reach as many Bulgarian citizens as possible. I wish success to the Council of Ministers, to the ministers, and I am convinced that with this majority that we have today, we will have a budget! I am convinced that this political, economic and financial stability will be able to implement the budget, and why not overrun it? Ministers, you should know that the parliamentary majority is stable, strong, determined to support the Bulgarian government, because we trust Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and all ministers from the cabinet Borisov. [[(Voices from BSP for Bulgaria: Bravo!) Bravo!... loud applause by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Come in for a statement, Mr. Dimitrov. On the balcony are guests women from Ruse region. Let's welcome them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, dear ministers, for your presence. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, an important vote is yet to come, and after everything that has been spoken in this House with regard to Budget 2018 I would like to express my and my fellow Members' strong position: honourable Members, I am strongly opposed to voting negatively. Thank you. [[Laughter and applause in GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u92	Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Come in for a statement, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u93	Mr President, honourable Members, I ask you to support the budget for the judiciary drawn up by the Supreme Judicial Council because it is justified because it is a continuation of the principle of independence of the judiciary and because all the needs for additional funds have been caused by the actions of our committee, by the obligations that we have imposed on the court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u94	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Now I will put to the vote exactly this budget Mr. Bojankov is talking about. I put to the vote a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 with included a Draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2. In the Committee on Budget and Finance on this Project 21 Members of Parliament have abstained. Please vote. Vote 221 MPs: for no, against 41, abstention 180. [[(Applause and cheering from GERB: Bravo!]] The bill hasn't been passed. I put to the vote a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2. The bill is in the Law of the National Assembly under No 702 01-38. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Budget and Finance Committee proposes that the Bill be supported. Please vote. Vote 223 MPs: 126 against 96, abstention 1. The bill was passed in the first vote. [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] For the first negative vote, the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u95	[[The Ministers and some of the Members of the National Assembly shall leave the Chamber.]] Honourable Mr. Chairman, distinguished ministers, honourable ladies and gentlemen of the House!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u96	Going to work, ministers gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u97	Isn't that what they do here, Madam President?! [[Laughter]] I'm taking this negative vote for two reasons. Firstly, as a playful start began the adoption of the budget at first reading with the poorly-mannered behaviour of the Minister of Finance, so catchy and ended with the last statement by the ruling coalition. Because, colleagues, this budget, which you voted for, you can call it in many ways, but it is the budget of good wishes and spells, on the one hand, and harsh reality on the other. Because this is the budget that continues and will continue to divide the Bulgarians into poorer and more and more and richer and less. Because this is the budget with which you continue to conduct the policy to take from the poorest and by redistribution to distribute it to your closest to you. Because this is the budget, which will not make the Bulgarians healthier, will not make them more educated, will not make them more cultural. To be in this state today, this is the result of your budgets and you cannot hide this fact with anything, and you cannot even hide the fact of your frustration that you cannot make a budget that makes reforms, and not just give numbers and in which budget there are policies, and not as your minister said: to have money to spend. There is no way to support this budget and make sure you have a vote of no confidence! Thank you. [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Mrs. Yankova, second negative vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against this budget consciously because, if we have to say that it has to do three things: to develop the territory of the country - sustainable development, to level the differences in the country, to change the quality of life and the standard of Bulgarian citizens. Perhaps if everyone looks at their electoral district, they will see that this budget will continue to deepen interregional differences. Ladies and gentlemen, for 10 years now, the European funds that are being used are still white fields on the periphery of district cities, and you know that very well. The small municipalities are ahead of the periphery of the district cities. There is no policy in the budget for this territory. I voted consciously against it, because around 19 800 is the municipal road network. About 200 million is the money for this road network. Once again, we will be left behind with the development of small settlements, which is the bloody economic driving system, so that the loadops, the economy, the people with investments can also reach the small settlements. I also voted against the fact that there is no policy in the sector. It is not normal in 2017 to have settlements with more than three months of problems with no water, and we to wave a lot of money and not spend more than 1 billion this year on investment in the energy supply. The quality of life, how do we change it? I voted against it for another reason. There are people in the various spheres who are employed in the social system, who are on a minimum salary. We will increase them with lev-two, but that is 15 000 who offer social services in poor Bulgaria, they will remain the poorest. I have consciously voted against this budget is indeed a budget of the stature. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u100	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Third vote? Here you go, Mr. Ebatine.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u101	Madam President, honourable Members! I have very consciously voted against this budget. Because the political message of this budget is a political message of division in society. The political message of this budget is the wagering of an environment in which corruption and nepotism develop and flourish. The political message of this budget is a political message of hatred, of this kind of legitimization, of such a government. The political message of the budget is a breakthrough in national security. For what should we support such a budget to pour even more money into such undertakings as the fence along the border to break through national security? Is that why I should vote for this budget? For a budget that creates a division in society, for a budget that legitimises power that creates a division in society, I cannot vote for That is why the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is voting against and will always vote against this power. Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u102	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. That was the third negative vote. We continue with the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO COMPLETE THE COMPANY OF THE STANDING DELEGATION OF THE PEOPLE'S DELEGATION IN THE PARLIAMENT'S ASAMBLEMENT OF THE COOPERATION PROCEDURE IN JUGO EAST EUROP. Importer is Tsvetan Tsvetanov on 3 November 2017. To the President of the National Assembly. Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I submit a draft decision to complete the composition of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Cooperation Process in South East Europe. Chairman of the group and importer Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the South East European Cooperation Process The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Evgenia Danylova Angelova as the main representative of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Cooperation Process in Southeast Europe. Please vote regime. They voted 123 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 22. The proposal is accepted, and with this, point five of today's programme. Next item six is: PROJECT FOR CHANGES IN THE STANDING COMMITMENTS OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Member of the National Assembly Krum Zarkov Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. Dear Mr. Chairman, On the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I submit a draft decision to change the composition of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Legal Affairs The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. 2. He elected Todor Bajchev Bajchev as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please vote regime. 135 MPs voted: 133, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We have another proposal from MP Krum Zarkov for a change in the composition of the Commission. Dear Mr. Chairman, On the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I submit a draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Todor Bajchev as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. 2. He elected Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Please vote regime. They voted 133 MPs: 131, none, abstention 2. The proposal is accepted and with this item sixth of today's agenda. Moving on to point seven: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE TRADE CORRECTION CODE. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 9 August 2017, adopted in the first vote on 27 September 2017. Here you are, Mr. Letifov, for the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u103	Thank you, Madam President. If you'll allow me, it's a security clearance procedure. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Deputy Minister Veliko Zanchev to be in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u104	Please vote on the so-called tolerance procedure. They voted 115 MPs: 114 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the voted persons to the Chamber. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u105	"Repair for amendment and supplement of the Code of Commercial Transport'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u106	Please vote on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 99, against 2, abstention 1. The proposal has been adopted and thus the name of the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u107	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2, the word "the moment' shall be replaced by "the day'.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u108	I shall put to the vote § 1 and § 2, supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 99, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u109	Under § 3 there is a proposal from the National Representative Halil Letifov in accordance with Article 3. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 4 after the word "Sea Administration" the words "approved" in accordance with the requirements for registration, equipment, installation and use of radio equipment under the "Sea Transport Act" shall be replaced by the words "Securities and Operating Requirements" under the secondary law of the European Union concerning maritime equipment and its testing. 2. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: s) Self-propelled and non-self-propelled ships, including small ships, ferries and floating vehicles and devices, shall be equipped with ship radio-telephone stations complying with the technical and operational requirements of the Regional Agreement on the Inland Radiophone Service (RAINWAT), signed on 18 April 2012 in Bucharest (No. The Commission therefore concludes that the 3. In para. 6 the words "the internal waterway service' agreement shall be replaced by the "Regional agreement on the inland waterway service (RAINWAT) '. 4. They're creating an al. 8 and 9: The vessels to which the International Convention on the Safety of Life on the Sea of 1974 applies. (SOLAS), as amended by the 1988 Protocol drawn up in London on 1 November 1974, ratified by Decree No. 61 from 1983) (prom., D.V., No. 12 of 2005; amended, No. 16,17, 19, 20, 22, 23 and 24, 2017), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1973, as amended by Protocol 1978. (MARPOL 73/78) and by a 1997 protocol drawn up in London on 2 November 1973 ratified by law (GB, No. 94 from 2004) (DV, No. 12 from 2005), or the Convention on International Regulations against Collision of the Sea, 1972, signed in London on 20 October 1972 ratified by Decree (SG, No. 22 of 1975) (DV, No. 17 of 2003), the protocols and their mandatory codes must have equipment installed on board meeting the requirements of Directive 2014/90/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on marine equipment and repealing Council Directive 96/98/EC (OB, L 257/146 of 28 August 2014.), hereinafter referred to as "Directive 2014/90/EU", the implementing acts adopted by the European Commission under art. 35 and delegated acts under art. 8, 11, 27 and 36 of the same Directive and international standards on marine equipment and its testing. The assessment of the conformity of equipment with the requirements of the secondary law of the European Union and international standards shall be carried out by organisations notified by the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration under the terms and conditions of the regulation under para. 3 concerning the equipment of the seaships. (9) The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall lay down, by regulation, the terms and conditions for the services of inland waterway-free ships during navigation, during the stay of an external anchor station, upon entry, arrival and stay in the aquatory of ports, as well as in the conduct of loading and unloading operations.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u110	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 3 supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u111	Under § 4, there is a proposal from the MP Paul Hristov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 the words "solas 74") produced in London on 1 November 1974. (Ratified by Decree of the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria, No. 61 from 1983) (DV, No. 12 from 2005) shall be replaced by the words "Solas' and the words "Solas' in London on 2 November 1973. (Rated by law............................................................................................... 94 from 2004) (DV, No. 12 from 2005) The following shall be deleted: 2. In para. 3 after the word "foreign', the words "physically and physically' shall be added; 3. The creation of para. 4. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall determine by regulation the terms and conditions for carrying out the activities under para. 3 as well as empowering the persons implementing them and withdrawing the powers conferred. Under § 5, there is a proposal from the National Representative Spas Panchev in accordance with Article 5. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. Article 79 is amended as follows: "Investigation of marine accidents and incidents Art. 79. (1) The investigation of marine accidents and incidents shall be carried out by investigators of the investigation staff of the specialized unit for the investigation of marine accidents and incidents in the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. (2) The investigation under para. 1 aims to contribute to the improvement of maritime safety and to the prevention of marine accidents by establishing the causes and circumstances of a specific accident, without drawing conclusions on the presence of wines or the allocation of liability. The investigation under para. 1 shall be carried out separately and independently of the criminal, administrative or civil proceedings of the same marine accident and shall not be prevented, suspended or delayed by the conduct of such proceedings. (3) A safety investigation shall be subject to marine accidents and incidents which are: 1. affected a ship flying a Bulgarian flag regardless of the location of the accident; 2. arising in the territorial sea and in the inland waters of the Republic of Bulgaria, regardless of the type and purpose of the ships concerned and of the flag under which they sail; 3. affecting other significant interests of the Republic of Bulgaria, regardless of the location of the accident and the flag on which the ships concerned sail; 4. affected seaships located in the inland waterways of the Republic of Bulgaria. (4) No investigation shall be carried out concerning the safety of marine accidents and incidents which concern only: 1. warships, ships intended for the transport of troops and other ships belonging to or operated by the State exclusively for government non-commercial purposes; 2. ships which are not mechanically powered, wooden ships with primitive construction, yachts and other vessels for sport, tourism and entertainment used for non-commercial purposes, unless they are or will be equipped with crew and carry or will carry more than 12 passengers for commercial purposes; 3. river ships that sail only on inland waterways; 4. fishing vessels up to 15 metres in length; 5. stationary offshore drilling platforms. (5) A safety investigation shall be carried out in the event of a very serious maritime accident. In all other cases of marine accidents and incidents, the head of the specialized unit under para. 1 shall assess whether an investigation of an accident is necessary after taking into account the expert opinion of the investigators of the investigation by the unit concerning the nature of the marine accident or accident, the type of ship concerned and/or cargo and the possibility that the results of the investigation will help prevent future accidents or incidents. Where a decision is taken not to conduct an investigation into the safety of a serious accident, the reasons for that decision shall be communicated to the European Commission through the European Maritime Accident Information Platform. (6) The safety investigation shall commence as soon as possible, but no later than two months after the occurrence of the marine accident or incident. (7) In carrying out its functions and in the decision-making process, the specialized unit under para. 1 is independent and acts only on the basis of the law. (8) The specialized unit under para. 1 on the basis of an agreement reached with the investigating authority of another Member State of the European Union on a specific case of safety investigation may delegate to it the power to lead this investigation or to entrust it with specific tasks in the course of the investigation. The arrangements for the conclusion of agreements with the investigating authorities of the other Member States of the European Union shall be laid down by the regulation under para. 13. (9) Investigation inspectors shall conduct safety investigations impartially and act only on the basis of the law. Inspectors shall conduct the investigation in accordance with the Maritime Accident and Incident Investigation Code adopted by Resolution A.849(20) of 27 November 1997 of the International Maritime Organisation Assembly and shall be entitled to access any information relevant to the investigation carried out, as well as any right: 1. to free access to any area or site of accident, as well as to any vessel which has an emergency vessel or structure, including cargo, equipment or remains; 2. establish the necessary organisation for the immediate description of the evidence and the controlled search for removal of debris, debris and other parts or substances for examination or analysis; 3. require testing or analysis of the objects under point 3. 2, as well as free access to the results of such studies or analyses; 4. the free access, copying and use of any necessary information and recorded data, including data from the vessel's travel data recorder (VDR) related to the ship, bus, cargo, crew or any other person, object, condition or circumstance; 5. of free access to the results of the examination of the victims' bodies or samples taken from the victims' bodies; 6. require and have the results of the examination or samples taken by the persons involved in the operation of the ship or by another relevant person; 7. interrogate witnesses in the absence of any person whose interests might be considered as obstructing the safety investigation; 8. receive reports of visits and relevant information from the flag State, vessel owners, classification organisations and from all other competent parties where they or their representatives are established in the Republic of Bulgaria; 9. to request assistance from the competent authorities in the countries concerned, including inspectors from the flag State and the port State, coast guard officers, the operator of ship traffic management services, search and rescue teams, pilots or other port or shipping personnel. (10) Any safety investigation shall end with a report drawn up in the form and content determined by the regulation under para. 13. Within 12 months of the date of the marine accident or incident, the head of the specialized unit under para. 1 publishes the report, including its conclusions and recommendations, on the website of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The conclusions and recommendations contained in the report shall not be used in the course of civil, administrative, disciplinary or criminal proceedings. (11) The specialized unit under para. 1 shall keep the documentation of safety investigations and maintain an information database for marine accidents and incidents. Information on marine accidents and incidents shall be provided to the European Commission through the European Maritime Accident Information Platform. (12) The specialized unit under para. 1 is required to use only for safety investigation purposes and not to provide third parties, unless the relevant competent authority decides that there is a primary public interest in their disclosure, the following information and documents: 1. the testimony and other statements, explanations and observations taken or received by the investigators in the course of a safety investigation; 2. revealing the identity of the persons who testified during the safety investigation; 3. information relating to persons affected by the marine accident or incident which is of a particularly sensitive or personal nature, including information on their health. (13) The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall determine by regulation the order for the investigation of maritime accidents and incidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u112	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Paragraph 4 and 5 statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 4 and § 5 reported and supported by the Commission. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u113	Under § 6 there is a proposal from the MP Paul Hristov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the importer's proposal and propose the following version for § 6: ........................................................... Article 3 is Investigation of accidents in the inland waterways of the Republic of Bulgaria Art. 79a. (1) Accidents by inland waterway vessels shall be investigated by the respective territorial directorate of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration, in whose area the accident occurred. (2) The investigations under para. 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the Danube River Surveillance Rules adopted by the Council of Ministers and under conditions and by order laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... The name of Chapter Five shall be amended as follows: Service staff The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u114	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the committee supported by § 6, 7, 8 and 9 included. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 6, 7, 8 and 9 including the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u115	Under § 10, there is a proposal from the MP Paul Hristov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In the title, the word "Trud' is replaced by "General rules for employment'. 2. In para. 1 after the word the staff is added to the staff. 3. Paragraph 9 is amended as follows: The use of leave by crew members and service personnel shall be carried out in accordance with the rules laid down in para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 4. Paragraph 10 is amended as follows: If necessary to ensure the immediate safety of the ship, persons or cargo on board, or to provide assistance to other disaster ships or persons, the master shall have the right to require each crew member and service staff to work for as many hours as necessary to restore the normal situation. In these cases, the provisions of art. 88c, para. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 88d, para. 3, 4 and 5 shall not apply. 5. Allinei 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 are hereby revoked. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, as in art. 88c, para. 5 the words "predictments in art. 88b, para. Article 8 (a) is replaced by the order of art. 88b, para. The following points are inserted after point 8 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u116	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 10, 11 and 12 including those supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 10, 11 and 12, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u117	Under § 13 there is a proposal from the MP Paul Hristov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 360 are created. 12 and 13: The Executive Agency of the Sea Administration shall carry out the functions of an administration within the meaning of the secondary law of the European Union on ship recycling. (13) The Executive Agency is a notifying authority within the meaning of Directive 2014/90/EU. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission supports the text of the importer for §16 and the words in force for the Republic of Bulgaria as of 1 July 2007 are deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u118	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 including those supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. Paragraphs 13 to 18 have been adopted on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u119	According to § 19 there is a proposal from the MPs Spas Panchev, Georgi Svilenski, Alexander Paunov and Pavel Hristov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19: "Seriously, I'm The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1a: (a) c. 2 the words "by sea (SOLAS) " shall be replaced by "the sea' of 1974. (SOLAS) as amended by the 1988 Protocol. (b) point 9 is amended as follows: Nine. A person who holds the position of a ship as a member of the crew or carries out a service on the shore and holds a licence, certificate of professional competence, certificate of additional or special training acquired under the ordinance under art. 87, para. 1. c) create t. 43-46: It's 43. A very serious maritime accident is an event by ship that occurred during its operation and resulted in a complete structural loss of the ship, death or significant pollution of the environment. 44. It is an event with a ship that occurs during its operation which cannot qualify as a very serious accident and is expressed in: damage to the integrity or alleged damage to the hull of the ship as a result of fire or explosion on board, obstruction, contact with the bottom, underwater or coastal object or facility or other vessel, or under the influence of adverse weather conditions or ice, structural damage to the ship which makes it immoral (e.g. damage to the underwater part of the hull), failure of the main engine, significant damage to the superstructure, contamination due to spillage, regardless of its quantity, and/or damage requiring drag or assistance from the shore. 45. Environmental pollution is environmental pollution within the meaning of § 1, point (a) and (b) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006. 5 of the additional provisions of the Environmental Protection Act, creating the risk of its damage. 46. "Seasonary work' means work over a period of time of not more than 9 consecutive months within 12 months during which performing certain activities is possible as a result of the presence of natural-climatic resources or demand. 2. Paragraph 1c is inserted: 1c. This code introduces the requirements of Council Directive 2014/112/EU of 19 December 2014 implementing the European Agreement on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in the inland waterway sector concluded by the European Union for river navigation (EBU), the European Organisation of River Carriers (ESO) and the European Transport Workers Federation (ETF) (OB, L 367/86 of 23 December 2014.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u120	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 19. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 19 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u121	'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u122	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u123	Under paragraph 20, there is a proposal from the MPs Pavel Hristov and Alexander Paunov, in accordance with art. 84, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 20 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u124	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the division supported by the Commission and the Commission proposal § 20 to be rejected. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The name of the division and the Commission proposal for § 20 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u125	Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 20: .................................................................................. In the Law on Information and Consulting with Workers in Multinational Enterprises, Groups of Enterprises and European Companies (prom., SG No. 57, 2006, amended, No. 26, No. 82, 2011) the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) New para. are created. 3, 4 and 5: If a member of the special negotiating body or its replacement is a member of the crew of a ship flying a Bulgarian flag, he shall be entitled to participate in a meeting of the special negotiating body or at any other meeting in accordance with the procedures under art. 8, para. 4 and 5 where during the meeting there is no trip and is not in a port of a country other than the State in which the owner is established. (4) If possible, the meetings shall be scheduled in such a way as to facilitate the participation of crew members of marine vessels who are members of the special negotiating body or their alternates; (5) In cases where a member of the special negotiating body or his replacement is unable to attend the meeting, the possibilities of new information and communication technologies may be used. (b) The current para. 3, 4 and 5 become respectively para. 6, 7 and 8; c) the current para. 6 becomes para. 9 And in it the words are said. 5........................................................................................... replace by........................................................................................... the following points are inserted after point 8 (Commission Regulation (EU) No 231/2014): (d) the current para. 7 becomes para. 10. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) New para. are created. 9,10 and 11: If a member of the European Works Council or his replacement is a member of the crew of a ship flying a Bulgarian flag, he shall have the right to participate in a meeting of the European Works Council or at any other meeting in accordance with the procedures under art. 15, para. 3, p. 6 where during the meeting there is no trip and is not in a port in a country other than the country in which the owner is established. (10) Where possible, meetings shall be scheduled in such a way as to facilitate the participation of crew members of marine ships who are members of a European Works Council or their alternates. (11) In cases where a member of the European Works Council or his deputy is unable to attend a meeting, the possibilities of new information and communication technologies may be used. (b) The current para. 9, 10 and 11 become respectively. 12, 13 and 14. 3. In § 2 of the additional provisions, a comma shall be drawn at the end and 2 of Directive (EU) 2015/1794 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 October 2015 amending Directives 2008/94/EC, 2009/38/EC and 2002/14/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Council Directives 98/59/EC and 2001/23/EC on seafarers (OB, L 122/28 of 16 May 2009).) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u126	Statements, coworkers? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the Commission's support and created a new § 20. Vote 114 MPs: for 113, against no, abstention 1. With this was adopted the new § 20 supported by the Commission and thus the Bill. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR AUTOMOBILITY TRANSFERS. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u127	Madam President, if you'll allow the admission procedure? On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I make procedure for admission to the hall of Deputy Minister Angel Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u128	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 112 MPs: 110, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u129	Thank you. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Road Transport Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u130	Please vote on the name of the Law which the Commission supports. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The name of the bill is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u131	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov in accordance with Article 1. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of §1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, para. 4 A sentence third is created: The validity of the certificate can be continued for a new period of 5 years without the re-test if the person meets the requirements of para. 3, p. 1-4 and submitted an application for re-issue within 14 days prior to the expiry of the certificate for driver of a light taxi vehicle. 2. In para. 6 after the word "car', a comma shall be placed and added for the extension of the period of validity.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u132	I'm opening the debate. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote § 1, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u133	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 89a, para. The following amendments shall 1. Points 2 and 3 shall be repealed. 2. point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. a document for the education and qualification of staff;
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u134	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote those supported by the Commission § 2 and the newly created § 3 once again supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 2 and the newly established § 3 are adopted on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u135	Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up a section of the "Transitional and Final Provisions' by paragraphs 4 and 5: "Transitional and final provisions." § 4. The procedures for issuing certificates under art. 89a, para. 2 are finished in the current order. § 5. In the Law for Supplement to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees ( SG No. 32 of 2016) in § 7, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the words.. 31 December 2017......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u136	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I will turn to you this time we are making a change to the Law which was tabled on your proposal, a group of MPs from GERB, two years ago. Two years ago, you have campaigned here and had asked colleagues from the Financial Commission Mrs. Stoyanova, Mrs. Yordanova, now missing, during their law you have introduced the change to extend the permits by two years; to require more documents for registration of taxi cars; to put some order in this sector; to start paying taxes; to introduce the alternative tax where high, where low, in different municipalities is different. And I thought then that you really want to do something good in this business. What happened after all? One by one the proposals you made then started to drop out the driver's exams, and the deadlines for renewal were dropped. And there's nothing wrong with that. I'm just gonna ask you: why not two years after you accepted this Act? The Automobile Administration at the Ministry of Transport didn't lift a finger to make these taxi drivers re-registered? And I'll tell you why, because this measure concerns 70,000 drivers, and you in the election campaign, when you met with these people, promised them that you would change their deadline and that's why they voted for you. So you created their problem two years ago with a clear awareness that when December 2017 comes, this period will have to be continued or cancelled. Mr. Tsvetanov, there will be no more elections. It must be made clear to the Bulgarian citizens. You cannot blackmail the Bulgarian citizens by offering them restrictive measures by law and in the following year, when this law is due to enter into force, you can say: "Behold, we are the good ones, we will now extend the term. " I ask: when this proposal for extension was submitted, do we have an analysis of how many applications are filed in the Automobile Administration? And I would agree to extend this deadline because it really can't happen, but I ask you how many applications have been submitted and the Automobile Administration can't renew them? What's the reason? Why are we continuing the validity period of the old documents? Mr. Tsvetanov, please let this be the last change in the Law on Road Transport concerning taxi cars. Guarantee from here that you or your deputy will no longer continue the deadlines, because this type of legislation, in which we impose certain deadlines, and then in different forms we extend them, speaks about the level and authority of the National Assembly as a whole, no matter who has supported and who has not supported this Bill. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Are there any lines to Mr. Svilensky's statement? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Svilenski, we will not go back to when what happened, but I am pleased with your statement on the fact that you said that you would support the deadline to be extended. You said it, Mr. Svilensky! You said this thing was right. But look, there's no way a test is holding twice. It's a fact! For this reason, I believe that it should be changed in the Law the requirement to hold one exam twice. With regard to the deadline, I can say that since there are 70 thousand taxis in Bulgaria, these 70,000 taxis can not be re-registered within two or three months, even half a year, because, you were a municipal councillor, you know how the registration of taxis in municipalities happens. There's something very important I'd like to draw your attention to, Mr. Svilensky. Maybe this registration of taxi cars would have happened if the office had been working. The office dealt with everything else, but not the important things that remained in the future cabinet. That's why this re-entry didn't happen, because, again, the office wasn't working on it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u140	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Any other lines? A hole, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Everything I expected to hear, any guilt I expected to be thrown on why things didn't happen in the state, but to blame the office for taxi drivers?! Colleagues, it's the office's job to make choices, not to deal with taxis. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Did I say any news? Did I say any news, Mr. Tsvetanov? It's not your job to make choices. It's the office's job to make choices. During that time you went to the taxi drivers and lied to them that you would continue their term, that is, you promised them. Now you're doing it. You're paying your bill. Except those same drivers before they came to you, they were with us. [[Noise and laughter from GERB.]] With the same drivers we spoke and I told them two years ago that December will come and will be lied to by you and that happened. You proved it. Now you're wondering how to get out of this situation. If you're so brave, don't take this offer and go back to them and meet and talk. Because you gave them two years. What Mr. Ivanov said about the exam, that we supported, was the previous member. We're talking about a six-month extension that's been going on for two years. And if you're brave and responsible now press the red button and go to these taxi drivers and tell them that you think about them, but not like this, by blackmailing them and their families, if you really want to do something good. At least in Sofia you are ruling, you have 31 councillors. [[GERB lines.]] No, you have a full majority here. Let's do this to see how many illegal taxis there are in Sofia thanks to your inaction? Over 1,000 taxis are moving illegally in Sofia and you are doing nothing because you are waiting on their backs to win elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I put to the vote the proposal for the establishment of a division named "Previous and final provisions" and new § 4 and 5. They voted 120 MPs: 99, none, abstention 21. The Council of Ministers of the European Union and the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway have adopted the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR HEALTH AND SAFE CONDITIONS OF TRAVEL. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2016. A report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u143	Madam President, honourable Members. First, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to Mr. Lazar Lazarov's hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u144	Please vote. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. Please invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u145	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health and Safety at Work, No 702 01 30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2017. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 25 October 2017 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health and Safety at Work, No 702-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Mrs. Kalina Petkova, Director of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions, in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and experts from organizations of social partners. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Lazar Lazarov. According to the reasons of the Bill, the proposed changes aim at better regulation of requirements for providing health and safety at work. The main objectives set by the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health and Safety at Work are: 1. Reduction of administrative burden by lifting the obligation to submit the notification under art. 15 of the Law on Health and Safety at Work. 2. Improving the quality and control of employment care activities for employees by establishing a legal basis for validating standards for the work of employment services and improving the provisions on the minimum composition of employment services. 3. Optimising the activities of the coordination, consultation and cooperation councils in the development and implementation of the policy for ensuring health and safety at work, including for inspecting labour at national level. The effects to be achieved with regard to the notification obligation if the bill is adopted are the following: The obligation to submit a notification of about 160 000 employers per year will be dropped, which will reduce the administrative burden and burden of employees of the Executive Agency. This, in turn, will free up time and additional resources for inspection activities. The importers are confident that the amendment will reflect in 2018, as by 30 April employers are obliged to submit notifications if no changes within the meaning of the law and Ordinance No 3 of 2010 on the form, content, order and manner of submission and storage of the declaration under art. 15, para. 1 of the Law on Health and Safety at Work. Changes relating to the minimum composition of employment services will ensure compliance with higher education legislation regarding the requirement for the education of the person with higher technical education and legal certainty as regards the registration process of employment services. In addition, there is a legal basis for developing standards for the work of the employment services. This change will ensure the implementation of the new standards, which will improve the quality and control of employment care activities for employees. Changes in terms of the functions of the National Labour Inspection Board and the National Labour Council will enable optimization of the activities of the two councils, effective social dialogue at national level in the field of safe and healthy working conditions and implementation of the recommendations of the Council of Ministers and the Court of Auditors to take action to optimise and update the consultative councils at national level. According to importers, the objectives set in the Bill correspond to the strategic priorities for reducing administrative burden and better regulation. The matter that regulates the bill does not harmonise European Union acts and therefore it is not possible to analyse compliance with European law. The proposed Bill will not result in a direct and/or indirect impact on the state budget. A partial impact assessment form has been attached to the Bill. A reference from the Ministry of Justice is also applied, according to art. 28, para. 3 of the Law on Legislative Acts, on the compliance of the Bill with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. According to the reference, the proposed bill does not create any legal prerequisites for conflicting with the provisions of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. A reference has also been attached which reflects the opinions received during the public consultation of the Bill. Protocol No 17 of 28 September 2017 from the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation and Opinion of the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria was received in the Commission. The Protocol of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation states that the parties to the Council have not reached unanimity on the proposed amendments to the proposed Bill. The opinion of the CST also challenged the texts of the Bill. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hasan Ademov, Georgi Gokov, Svetlana Angelova and Julian Papasimov. They expressed their position that they approved the amendments to the Bill concerning reducing the administrative burden and better regulating the processes related to the implementation of the safety and health policy at work. There was also a concern that, in the form of reducing the administrative burden, employers' responsibilities could also be reduced to provide good working conditions for their workers. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 16 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Health and Safety at Work, No 702-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u146	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. I'm opening the debate. Statements? I can't see. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Law on Health and Safety at Work submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2017. They voted 105 MPs: for 104, against 1, no abstentions. Thus, the bill amending and supplementing the Law on Health and Safety at Work was adopted at first reading. Here you go, Mr. Konstantinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u147	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of our Rules of Procedure suggest that the deadline for proposals on the first reading votes should be reduced to four
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u148	Thank you, Mr. Konstantinov. Any other suggestions? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Voted 103 MPs: 84, against 4, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: Reporting on the implementation of the Privatization Process and the follow-up of the Privatization Process 1 JANUARY 1 (June 30, 2017) Importer (s) The Supervisory Board of the Agency for Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, 5 October 2017. Mr. Kanev, please read the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u149	"COMMODITY" on a report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period 1 January 30 June 2017, No 704-00-12, submitted by the Supervisory Board of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control 15 October 2017 At its regular meeting held on 18 October 2017, the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee examined the Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period 1 January The meeting was attended by the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency: Mitko Simeonov Executive Director, Mikhail Vladov E.D. Member of the Supervisory Board, and Rusi Statkov, member of the Supervisory Board. The report was presented by Mitko Simeonov. In the first six months of 2016, cash proceeds from privatisation sales, penalties paid, interest and the deferred part of the price of privatisation transactions subject to control totalled 3,673 thousand. lv. During the reporting period, the Agency has incurred expenditure of 1 451 thousand. lv. In proportion to the specified plan, the implementation of the costs is 43.92 per cent. During the reporting period, the Agency has concluded 6 privatisation contracts. The proceeds of privatisation sales total 2,467 thousand. lv. Prepared and offered for sale through a public tender with a clear bidding bid of 16 pcs. entities representing private government property and parts of companies. At the fortyth centralised privatisation tender were offered for sale bundles of shares of the capital of 11 companies. Marketing events have been carried out in respect of 27 pcs. items that are offered for sale during the reporting period. The following activity has been carried out in order to fulfil the main objectives of post-privatization control: the following activity has been analysed and finalised with findings: a total of 51 accounts under 38 privatisation contracts; penalties have been charged for the execution of obligations under 1 privatisation contract; payments under 14 privatisation contracts have been accepted; on-the-spot checks of 15 contracts have been carried out; documentation checks have been carried out and 5 certificates have been issued for the fulfilment of obligations and for the absence of obligations. As of 30 June 2017, the resources of privatisation sites under which preparatory or actual privatisation procedures are carried out consist of 13 pcs. Majority stock/shares of which 4 pcs. have been flown into the Plovdiv; 4 pcs. minority packages of shares/shares owned by commercial companies with more than 50 percent State participation in capital in other commercial companies; 59 pcs. minority shares/units; 15 pcs. entities owned by commercial companies with more than 50 per cent State participation in capital; 148 pcs. entities representing private government property and property with rights to manage heads of state offices for which privatisation offers are available. As of 30 June 2017, contracts with an unpaid price were 175 pieces. The Agency has found permanent non-compliance with obligations to pay the deferred part of the price and all necessary action has been taken to collect the amounts due. As of 30 June 2017, the total number of contracts subject to control in respect of various social commitments and other obligations, including investments, was 86. The total number of pending cases to which the Agency is a party on 30 June 2017 shall include all pending cases, including the claims to which the Agency is the defendant. To the questions raised by the MPs Rumen Gechev, Hristo Prodanov and Dimitar Danchev regarding the consequences of the annulment of § 8 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control regarding the implementation of the privatisation contract for BMF and the need for subsequent legal changes to protect the state interest, the representatives of the Agency replied. After the presentation of the Father and a discussion on him, a vote was held which ended with the following results:........................ 17 votes.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt: Project! DECISION on the post-privatization and post-privatization control process for the period 1 January 2017 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 90, para. 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and in relation to art. 22d, para. 1, t. 2 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Reporter for the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period 1 January 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-09.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Guys, do we have any debates? I won't. I put to the vote the President of the Economic Commission presented to us by Mr. Kanev, a draft Decision on the adoption of the Reporter for the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in the period 1 January 2017 - 30 June 2017. Voted 103 MPs: 100, none, abstention 3. Report's been accepted. Colleagues, I will make a communication on parliamentary control 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov will answer a question from the MPs Teodora Halacheva and Petar Vitanov; and a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer three questions from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov; Tasko Ermenkov; and Zhelyo Boychev. 3. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer three questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova, Donka Simeonova and Violeta Jeleva; Anelia Klisarova and Irena Anastasova; and Bogdan Botsev and Nikolay Boshkov and one question from the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Stoyan Mirchev. 4. The Minister of Health in Retire Nikolai Petrov will answer five questions from the MPs Georgi Mihaylov. Two questions; Georgi Gokov; Anton Kutev; and Georgi Tarnovalyski. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to three questions from the MPs Filip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; Vasil Tsvetkov; and Dimitar Georgiev; and to three questions with written answer from the MPs Filip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; and Dora Yankova Two questions; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to a question from the National Representative Boryana Georgieva; and to two questions with written answer from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to three questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov; Svetla Bachvarova; Bogdan Botsev and Nikolay Boshkov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to a question by the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to a question written by the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov. Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answer to a question by the MPs Manol Genov, Georgi Turnovalyski and Veska Nencheva to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov is postponed. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva and the Minister for Environment and Water Neno Dimov will not participate. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am closing today's plenary session. Tomorrow, a regular meeting of 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
