ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members, allow me to present the draft National Assembly Programme for the period from 8 November to 10 November 2017. The project was discussed at the Chairman's Council. 1.First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax. (Inherent from the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017) 2.First vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018 (Inherent from the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017) 3.First vote on the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2018 (Inherent from the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017) 4.First vote on the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 (The Council of Ministers was imported on 30 October 2017.). 5.Project of a decision to complete the composition of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Cooperation Process in South East Europe. (Reporter Tsvetan Tsvetanov on 3 November) The Commission shall 6.Second voting of the Bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping. (The Council of Ministers received the first vote on 27 September 2017 on 9 August 2017.) 7.Second voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Transport. (The Council of Ministers received the first vote on 26 October 2017 on 3 October 2017.) 8.First voting of the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Health and Safety at Work. (Inherent from the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2017) 9.The report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process during the period 1 January - 30 June 2017. (The Supervisory Board of the Privatization Agency and Post-Privatization Control on 5 October 2017) 10. Parliamentary control. Please vote. Vote 192 MPs: 173, against 2, abstention 17. The National Assembly's work programme for the period 8 November 2017 has been adopted. Allow me, before I go to the messages, to make a little clarification on the program. At the Conference of Presidents, we united around today to end the vote on the first three points and then, if the time allows, which will be extended anyway because of the vote on the first three points, to start with the reports on the Republican budget only with the reports, so that tomorrow the actual debate can be held with him only to begin. But we'll see about that at work today. I am making the clarification in order for colleagues to do well the programme for the functioning of the permanent committees of the National Assembly, that is, it is likely that no committees will be held today. Messages. Bills and draft decisions of 1 November By 7 November 2017, 2017: On 2 November 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Energy is the lead, is allocated to the Committee on Health and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 3 November 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act was adopted. The people's representative Georgi Kolev and a group of MPs are importing. It has been allocated to the leading Committee on Health. On 3 November 2017, a draft Decision was adopted to complete the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Cooperation Process in South East Europe. Importer is the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov. On 3 November 2017, it was received and distributed to the Members of the National Assembly a general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land adopted at the first vote on 19 October 2017. The project was drawn up by the Commission on Agriculture and Food on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. On 7 November 2017 the National Assembly received a letter to the President of the National Assembly: "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 85 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we withdraw the bill submitted by us on 26 October 2017 to amend the Social Security Code, No 754-01-76, with importers of the National Representatives Georgi Gokov, Dragomir Stoinev, Svetla Bachvarova, Georgi Turnovaliyski and Kristina Siderova. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute on the consumer surveillance conducted in October 2017. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Declaration on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On November 2nd, 2017 spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation Maria Zaharova said that in the years of World War II thanks to the troops of the USSR the deportation of Jews from Bulgaria was prevented and thus about 50 thousand people were saved from inevitable doom. Zaharova's claim that the Red Army saved the Bulgarian Jews answered almost all institutions, as well as politicians and public figures with different political views. Of course, there was an institutional reaction from the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry, in which it was stressed that the Bulgarian Jews were saved thanks to the efforts of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, the political and intellectual elite of the country, while at that time the Red Army was thousands of kilometers away from Bulgaria. It should not be overlooked to mention that the reaction of the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry recognises the role of the Soviet army in the eradication of national socialism in Europe, but it is also argued that Bulgaria has a decisive contribution to saving 50 000 people's lives. Two days after Maria Zaharova's statement in her position, the Russian Embassy in Sofia acknowledged the contribution of the Bulgarian people, the Bulgarian intelligence and the Bulgarian Orthodox Church to the rescue of the Bulgarian Jews. At the same time, the Organization of Bulgarian Jews and the American Jewish Committee reacted sharply to the words of Zaharova. In his position, the Executive Director of the American Jewish Committee David Harris called the Russian official's claims to be a false and blatant example of the worst possible historical revisionism. In Mr. Harris' position, he said: "No matter how loyal he was to Berlin, Bulgaria rose in 1943 to do something remarkable to oppose the Nazi orders and to defend nearly 50 thousand. Bulgarian Jews from deportation and almost certain extermination. Many were bravely engaged in this heroic rescue effort, which was recognized with gratitude by Hiad Vassam, the historians of the holocaust and the survivors themselves. On 7 November 2017, a video was released in the media, where the public representative from BSP Mr. Ivo Hristov was seen during a meeting with sympathizers in Radnevo to defend the thesis of the spokesperson of the Russian Foreign Ministry, and I quote: The Scandal with Maria Zakova is a classic in the genre. Considering that 80% of the population are debilitated and unable to sign, this works flawlessly. Also, what Maria Zaharova says: "It should not be forgotten that if it was not for the Soviet army, 50 thousand. Bulgarian Jews would have been deported. Does anyone doubt it wouldn't have happened like this? Or we'll say, "Yok, not Goering and Hitler." We'll keep them our Jews, you mind your own business. What did our newspapers do in the hybrid war? They took out of the context and said: "The Russians claim against all history that they had saved the Bulgarian Jews and 80% of the retards in one people, that is so. This is a classic displacement problem, and it is not who saved the Bulgarian Jews, but why you shit Soviet monuments. Dear colleagues, the parliamentary group of GERB strongly condemns this statement of the MP from BSP Mr. Ivo Hristov because it is a symbol of disrespect and disdain towards the Bulgarian people. First of all, this speech is humiliating for the institution of the National Assembly. The statement of Ivo Hristov is a mockery of the memory of those brave Bulgarians who in the darkest and most difficult years in world history found the strength and courage to protect their fellow Jews and save them from the camps of death. The vast majority of these brave people after the occupation of 9 September 1944 fell into the communist camps of death, and some of them, like Lilyana Panitza, were killed immediately after the coup without trial or judgment. In the years 1944 to 1989 the Bulgarian Communist Party as a subsidiary of the PSC made every effort to delete the memory of these people and to install in its place the lie that the communist movement in Bulgaria with the help of the USSR is the main driver for saving the Bulgarian Jews. This was a national betrayal because saving the Bulgarian Jews is a humane achievement on a European scale that belongs and will always belong to Bulgaria! If we give up on this, as did the Communist authorities for 45 years and, as today, the people representative from BSP Ivo Hristov, we give up on ourselves. We won't let that happen! The words of Ivo Hristov, according to whom 80% of the Bulgarian people are retarded, which cannot be signed, should not be overlooked. This is a shameful statement by a person who is called by Constitution to represent the entire Bulgarian people. And if the thesis that the Red Army saved the Bulgarian Jews is a perfidious expression of the protection of foreign interest, then to call 80% of the Bulgarian people Debilly is an insult which cannot be swallowed by any Bulgarian. Such public contempt for their people has not even allowed themselves the terrorists who blew up the church. In 1925, even the homeless who tried to destroy the Bulgarian Orthodox Church after 9 September 1944, even the national traitors who signed the request for Bulgaria to disband itself as a state and join the USSR. Even they had enough shame to hide their hatred and hatred of the Bulgarian people from the general public and to lead their anti-Bulgarian politics hidden behind the dogmas of communist ideology. Such shameful honesty in recent years has allowed himself only the former MP of BSP Hristo Monov, who in 2013 called the protesting majority Dear colleagues from BSP, dear Mrs. Ninova! Only two weeks ago in this Chamber we voted the resignation of a MP from GERB, who allowed himself to show an inappropriate sense of humor in a TV show. This was a sufficient reason for your strong reaction and for his resignation. Today we have a situation in which a member of the BSP states that not Bulgaria, but the USSR has saved the Bulgarian Jews that 80% of the Bulgarian people are retards that cannot be signed and that the Bulgarian media are parrotic and manipulate society. We call on you to state a clear position regarding these words of Ivo Hristov. In such cases, the position of a party considered to be Bulgarian could only be one to distinguish itself from such statements and to request immediately the resignation of its MP or to exclude it from its parliamentary group. If you do not do this, you will display a double standard and show that you speak one thing at your party meetings and quite another in Parliament and in the media space. You will also confirm the double standard you applied in the case of the Nazi greeting of Presidential Councillor Plamen Uzunov and will make it a practice. We recall that you then attacked sharply the Deputy Minister of the United Patriarchs about the same thing that you kept silent and kept silent when it came to Uzunov. In this way you show that your party speaks one thing, does another and thinks another. If you do not exclude Ivo Hristov from your group today, you will look like people who speak one when they are in Sofia, another when they go to Brussels, and another when they are in Moscow. The reason they don't believe you in Sofia or Brussels or Moscow is because of your schizophrenic silence in such situations. Just less than a month ago of this tribune, your MP Aleksandar Paunov said he wanted Bulgaria to leave NATO and the European Union and you had neither the courage nor the will to implement an adequate political reaction, because a political reaction is not to swear that you are for NATO and the European Union, while your representatives are calling for us to leave Europe and against our national interest to join nothing. We also appeal to the President Mr. Rumen Radev with a call to categorically distinguish himself from the words of Ivo Hristov, who was part of the Initiative Committee, who raised him as Head of State. If we pass such statements with silence, we will become accomplices of those who have produced them, because these are not just words, it is a battle for Bulgaria, for its foundations, for its past and for its future! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Let's continue with: The amount to be reported in this column shall be the amount to be reported in this row. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce you to the President of the Commission - the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please allow Mrs. Marinella Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Galya Dimitrova, Executive Director of the NRA; Mr. Rosen Ivanov, Director of the Directorate of the NRA and Ms. Natalia Cherneva and Tanya Nakova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u5	Please vote on the proposal made. They voted 199 MPs: 189, against 3, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Please invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u6	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 702-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At a meeting held on 1 November 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance "Marinela Petrova Deputy Minister of Finance, Lyudmila Petkova "Director of the Department of Tax Policy", Mina Yankova. Head of the Department in the same Directorate; Representatives of the National Revenue Agency "Galia Dimitrova". Executive Director, and Tanya Drenska. Head of the Department in the Directorate................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Finance Marinela Petrova. The proposed amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act (VAT) aim to refine provisions that create difficulties in the practical implementation of the law. Amendments and additions to the provisions of the law governing the adjustment of the used tax credit for goods and services are proposed. Cases in which the obligation to carry out an annual correction is dropped shall be laid down. The provision for the occurrence of a tax event in the case of a step-by-step delivery shall be clarified. In order to allow tax treatment which is incompatible with the rules of Directive 2006/112/EC, it is specified that the application of a zero rate in the case of passenger transport is applicable only to their luggage. The provision regulating the exemption from the value added tax of the supply of the universal postal service is precise, which is in line with the distinction made in the Postal Services Act between the universal postal service and the services covered by the universal postal service. In accordance with the rules of Articles 344 and 345 of Directive 2006/112/EC on the common system of value added tax, an addition to the provisions governing the classification of gold coins as investment gold is proposed in order to implement the special scheme for investment gold. Amendments are proposed regarding the order for determining the gold coins traded in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and are investment gold. The registration provision by which the taxable persons undertake to submit an application for registration within 7 days from the date on which, on the basis of the volume and nature of the activity, they can make reasonable assumptions that they will reach a taxable turnover of 50 000 BGN. or more within the current and next month. The proposal aims to counter the persons who avoid VAT registration when carrying out a taxable activity for a certain period of the year (making activity at seasonal sites within 2 months per year). The provision governing the compulsory registration of a non-personalised company to which goods or services are imported by a partner registered under the law, shall be completed where the partner is registered under the law after the date of establishment of the non-personalised company. It is proposed that, in cases of termination of a legal person without liquidation either of a non-personalised company or of an insurance fund, taxable persons should be deregistered under the law by the revenue authorities. Amendments relating to the facilitation and optimization of the declaration process are proposed, according to which, except in cases expressly provided for in the law, the possibility of submitting the reference declaration, the VIES-reporting and the reporting registers in paper form and in technical form is removed. The submission will be made electronically under the terms and conditions of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. The provision providing for security in the supply of liquid fuels shall be precise and in certain circumstances the obligation to provide collateral from end-users is removed from the obligation to provide collateral from end-users, persons who do not trade but only directly consume liquid fuels. It is envisaged that the forced administrative measure of the seal of an object for a period of up to one month may also apply to a third party when, at the time of sealing, the site or premises are operated by that third party, if it knew or could have known that a sealing procedure had been initiated. The transitional and final provisions of the Bill propose amendments to the following laws: The Law on excises and Tax Warehouses (TADCs) sures the definition of an Energy heating product................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The provision of art. 12 concerning the definition of tobacco products. In accordance with art. 21, § 5 of Council Directive 2003/96/EU of 27 October 2003 restructuring the Community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity is proposed to supplement the hypothesis of avoiding double taxation in the case of the production of electricity for its own use, subject to excise duty only to raw materials for the production of electricity. Exemption from excise duties of cigarettes up to 1000 shorts and smoking tobacco up to 2 kg per year, which are intended only for research and research related to quality of production. A supplement is proposed in the procedure for issuing the decision of the Director of the Customs Agency in the event of a change of circumstances which are subject to entry in the issued licence for the management of a tax warehouse, providing for the decision to be subject to prior implementation unless the court order otherwise. In relation to the new rules for the trade in natural gas, which provide for all natural gas operators to enter into contracts with transmission and distribution networks operators for the regulation of energy flows, an obligation for operators of those networks to provide information at the competent customs office on an electronic medium containing the data from the means of commercial measurement shall be introduced. The introduction of a minimum period of 1 year for the validity of bank guarantees provided by economic operators is proposed. New bans are envisaged in art. 91b, prohibiting the registration of an electronic administrative document or the issue of a paper document where the computer system does not work, for excise goods which have not been produced or physically entered into the tax warehouse. A ban on submission of a message shall also be introduced in accordance with art. 73e for excise goods which did not physically enter the tax warehouse or the operator's premises. The provisions of art. Article 102 and Article 102 102a of the Law on excises and tax warehouses related to the installation of technical devices for carrying out control over the movement of tobacco waste. The provision of art. 103, para. 2 as regards the return of evidence collected in accordance with the DPC. The amendment is dictated by the diverse caselaw and the free interpretation of the process by the controlled persons and the administration. A change in art. 107h, which aims to strengthen the Institute of the Agreement on the termination of administrative criminal proceedings, allowing for the first infringement to be imposed a penalty below the minimum laid down in the relevant administrative penal provision. It is proposed to refine the sanctions in art. 110 in the light of the gravity of the infringement and in accordance with the settled caselaw established with regard to the minority of the unlawful act committed. The Law on Corporate Income Tax (CPA) proposes a change related to the clarification of texts in the Law and their coordination with changes in the Law on Value Added Tax on unrecognized costs of misses and marriage. The Law on Income Taxes of Individuals (DTPFL) proposes the annual tax return, which is submitted by self-insuring persons within the meaning of the Social Security Code, as well as the declaration under art. 55, para. 1 which is drawn up and submitted by enterprises and self-insured persons - paying agents of income obliged to deduct and import taxes - to be submitted only electronically from 2018. A 5% discount on the import tax for electronic submission of the annual tax return is proposed to be dropped in the Law. A change is proposed by which the requirement of the Law on the Application to the Annual Tax Declaration of the Certificates of Foreign Tax and compulsory insurance contributions issued by the competent authorities of the other State, in the case of income of local natural persons from sources abroad, is replaced by a requirement for the application of................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Local natural persons shall be given the opportunity to declare in their annual tax return those acquired during the year, including those acquired in 2017, non-taxable income according to art. 13 of the Law. A change is proposed to the deadline for submission of the reference provided by the undertakings and self-instructions for income paid during the year, including the income paid in 2017, to the natural persons (the reference to art. 73, para. 1 of the LDCL), which, instead of 30 April, will be by the end of February. The Law on Local Taxes and Fees (ZMDT) provides that the specialized trailers for the transport of heavy or extra-large goods shall be dropped as a term in the provisions of art. 55 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. It is proposed that all types of trailers are to be subject only to category N motor vehicle composition. Electric vehicles categories L5f, L6f and L7f as defined in art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The change aims at reducing harmful emissions in the atmosphere and continuing the tax policy under way with regard to electric vehicles. The Law provides for the clarification of provisions relating to the payment of tax on taxi transport of passengers, with the change achieving full coordination between the Road Transport Act and the Local Taxes and Fees Act. In the Act on Accounting (WH): Editorial changes are proposed aimed at clarifying existing provisions on the time limits for publication of the consolidated financial statement, disclosure of non-financial information, preparation of the annual report on payments to governments, the definition of net sales revenue is refined and is aligned with the definition of net turnover given in Directive 2013/34/EU. A new § 5a shall be established in order to ensure the correct application of the Law by undertakings whose accounting basis for drawing up the financial statements is international accounting standards. The Law on the limitation of cash payments proposes to reduce the threshold for limiting the payments in cash of 10 000 BGN. £5000. The proposed threshold for cash payments is in line with the practice required in other Member States of the European Union, where the threshold for cash payments is in a range of EUR 2000 to 3000. In order to implement the proposed changes, no additional budgetary resources are needed to build administrative capacity and technical security. The effect on the budget of the change proposed by the Law in the Law on personal income tax (TWTPL) for dropping the regulated discount on the tax on bringing in an annual tax return is estimated at an additional revenue of 1.2 million. lv. for 2018 Following the presentation of the bill, a discussion was held in which the members of the committee expressed principled support for the Bill. The discussion ended with a vote on the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Value Added Tax Act, No 702-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Next is the Commission's report on monitoring revenue agencies and combating the grey economy and smuggling. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u8	Thank you, Madam President. {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 702 01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At its meeting held on 1 November 2017, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against Grey Economy and Smuggling, together with the Energy Commission, discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 702-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Mina Yankova, Head of Department at the Department of Tax Policy and Ms. Tatiana Nakova, Senior Expert at the Department of Tax Policy, Mrs. Violeta Gadzheva, Chief Expert at the Department of Tax Policy and Mrs. Diana Terzieva. The bill was presented by Mr. Kiril Ananiev. The main changes to the proposed package of amendments to the tax laws concerning the Commission's activities are in the following directions: First of all, the Value Added Tax Act (VAT) proposes changes related to the strengthening of the control of the sector of fuel trade and creates restrictions on the carrying out of unregulated repairs/interferences by persons serving the fiscal devices for the accounting of fuel sales in the commercial premises, proposing that the services providing such services be transferred from registration of authorisation. With regard to the supply of liquid fuels, it is also envisaged that, under certain circumstances, the obligation to provide collateral by end-users should be removed from the obligation to provide collateral to end-users, persons who do not trade but only consume fuel for the needs of their economic activity. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill are initiated changes in a number of legal acts "The Law on excises and tax warehouses, the Law on postal services, the Law on tobacco, tobacco and related products, the Law on limitation of payments in cash, etc. The Law on excise duties and tax warehouses (TADC) complements the provision of art. 12 concerning the definition of excise-taxed tobacco products, its scope extended to water pipe smoking preparations containing tobacco or substitutes. A stricter mode of control of the printing of Banderols, carried out by the Ministry of Finance, is envisaged. Once again, with regard to excise duties, there is a proposal for a ban on the issue/finalisation of excise goods documents which have not been produced or have not been physically entered into the tax warehouse/unit and the proof of this fact is a burden on the customs authorities. In order to counter the illegal trade in tobacco products and alcoholic beverages, a marketing ban is introduced for the purpose of selling excise goods without excise duty through the services of the information society and the mediating of postal operators. Additional powers shall be laid down by the customs authorities in the control of the movement of excise goods, as well as the possibility of carrying out the so-called controlled purchases. The Law on the limitation of cash payments in order to reduce the gray economy proposes the regulatory threshold for limiting cash payments in the country to be reduced by 10 000 BGN. £5000. During the subsequent discussion of the Bill the MPs Dragomir Stoinev and Adlen Shevked expressed their disagreement with the main productions of the same. Following the discussion and the vote held: with 10 votes for a vote, 7 votes against a vote abstention and 1 vote abstention, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposes that the National Assembly adopt a bill of amendment and supplement to the Law on Value Added Tax, No 702-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. The report of the Energy Commission follows. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} on a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 702-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At its regular meeting on 1 November 2017, the Energy Commission, together with the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling, discussed the Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 702-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Ms. Mina Yankova, Head of Department at the Department of Tax Policy. Motives to the bill were presented by Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance. The Transitional and Final Provisions propose amendments to the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. The definition of an energy heating product shall be precise in relation to the different interpretation by the administration and courts and in order to protect the fissure. In relation to the new rules on natural gas trading, which provide for all natural gas transactions to enter into contracts with gas and gas distribution networks operators to regulate the energy flows, in art. A new paragraph 11 shall be established under which operators of those networks undertake to provide information at the competent customs office on an electronic medium containing the data from the means of commercial measurement. In carrying out checks by the customs authorities, the data will be compared with those of the natural gas consumers' commercial measuring instruments and the information submitted by economic operators. In the subsequent discussion, the people's representative Mr. Tasco Ermenkov said that the MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria are not going to support the proposed Bill, because in the transitional provisions there is a text that limits the amount of payment in cash. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Energy Committee, with 10 votes for the Energy Committee, with 5 votes against the Council of Ministers and 1 vote abstention, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 702-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Following is the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u12	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} on a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 702-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 2 November 2017, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 702-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Department of Tax Policy, presented the draft on behalf of the importer in his part concerning the changes to the Local Taxes and Fees Act (ZMDT). The proposals made to amend and supplement the Value Added Tax Act are related to the need to refine provisions that create difficulties in the practical application of the law. With the transitional and final provisions of the Bill are proposed and amended the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. A change has been proposed to address identified problems in the taxation of trailers. Specialized trailers for the transport of heavy or extra-large goods are intended to be dropped as a term of the provisions ZMDT as there is no legal definition for them in national legislation. It is proposed that all types of trailers are to be subject only to category N motor vehicle composition. The change aims to address the problems identified in the exchange of data from the Ministry of Interior (MI) registry in the taxation of specialized trailers for the transport of heavy or extra-large goods and their correct categorization. Another part of the changes provides for electric vehicles categories L5f, L6f and L7f as defined in art. 4 of Regulation (EU) No is to be exempted from a vehicle tax. The change aims at reducing harmful emissions in the atmosphere and continuing the tax policy under way with regard to electric vehicles. It is also proposed to refine the provisions of the law relating to the payment of tax on taxi transport of passengers, with the change achieving full coordination between the Road Transport Act and the ZMDT. Some editorial changes related to the subject of vehicle taxation have been proposed, with the change achieving coordination between the Road Traffic Act and the ZMDT. Following the presentation of the bill, a vote was held, as a result of which the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government by 10 votes............................................................................................. is proposed to be adopted by the National Assembly.............................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. The latest report is from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 702-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 1 November 2017, a Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act was discussed, No 702-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Maria Veselinova, Head of Department at the Department of State Aids and Real Estate and Mrs. Petya Kopcheva, Head of Department at the Department of Tax Policy at the Ministry of Finance. During the presentation of the Bill, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance pointed out that the proposals made for amendment and supplement to the Law on Value Added Tax are related to the need to refine provisions that create difficulties in the practical implementation of the Law. The bill specifies the provision regulating the exemption from the value added tax of the supply of the universal service in order to prevent a wider interpretation of the exemption provided for in Directive 2006/112/EC on the common system of value added tax. The new version is in line with the opinion of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Audit Report of the Court of Auditors on the assessment of the effectiveness of the Bulgarian Posts (EAD) for the period 1 January 2013. On 31 December 2014, as regards the clarification of the entity exempt from VAT when carrying out the universal postal service, as defined in Article 3 of Directive 97/67/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 December 1997 on the general rules for the development of the internal market in Community postal services and on the improvement of the quality of the service, as amended and supplemented by Directive 2002/39/EC and by Directive 2008/6/EC. In the transitional and final provisions of the Bill are proposed amendments to the Law on excises and tax warehouses, the Law on Postal Services, the Law on Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products, the Law on Corporate Income Tax, the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, the Law on Accounting and the Law on Restriction of Payments in Cash. The Postal Services Act establishes a provision prohibiting the placing in domestic and international postal consignments of excise goods and tobacco waste, the holding, transport, transport, supply and sale of which are prohibited by the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees solve the identified problems in the taxation of trailers. It is intended that the specialized trailers for the transport of heavy or extra-larged goods shall be dropped as a term in the provisions of art. 55 of the law. It is proposed that all types of trailers are to be subject only to category N motor vehicle composition. The change aims to address the problems identified in the exchange of the data from the Ministry of Interior Register in the taxation of specialized trailers for the transport of heavy or extra-large goods and their correct categorization according to the provisions of art. 55 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. A proposal has also been made for electric vehicles categories L5e, L6e and L7e as defined in art. 4 of Regulation (EU) No is to be exempted from a vehicle tax. The change aims at reducing harmful emissions in the atmosphere and continuing the tax policy under way with regard to electric vehicles. It was also claimed by importers that the provisions of the Law relating to payment of tax on taxi transport of passengers were also refined, with the change achieving full coordination between the Road Transport Act and the Local Taxes and Fees Act. Editorial changes related to the subject of vehicle taxation have also been proposed. After the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 11 votes for............................................................. and 2 votes.......................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! After the meeting of our parliamentary group yesterday, I am empowered to state the following: we will not support the project for two main and clear reasons. The first reason, according to art. 26 of the Law on Laws, the whole package of tax laws, including this one, and the budget had to stand for a month for public discussion. They stayed for a few days! There is no way Parliament can break its own laws and regulations and adopt laws here that have not been discussed. Second, which is more important. In the Budget Committee, we raised the question and did not get an answer. Changes to this Law are proposed in the Final Provisions, in dozens of other laws. Honourable Members, without absolutely no estimates, there is not a single number of what is going on with budget revenue and budget expenditure. BSP has stated many times, we don't sign blank checks! So we're not going to support this project. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Shevked.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! After long discussions held by the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we will definitely not support this Bill. Our main thesis since the establishment of this cabinet has always been that the participation of nationalists in power is devastating for the state and here in this PID shows the interference of the portfolio deputy prime minister, if you do not understand, we are talking about economics and tourism. What texts are the result of the decisive creative thought of the above? In § 13 the changes to art. 13 shall be introduced. 96 of the current Law, namely: the registration period under the VAT Act is reduced from 14 to 7 days. The following entry is added: 2 in the text cited above, which reads as follows, fellow Members: The date on which, on the basis of the volume and nature of the activity carried out, can make a reasonable assumption that it will reach a taxable turnover of 50 thousand or more within the current or next month. With this test, the state acquires another restrictive element, which is based, I quote: on a reasoned assumption. Here the question arises: how does the mantra repeated to us by the government that they will stimulate the small and medium-sized business after making a reasoned assumption, and if it does not reach the assumption, whether it is justified, is also not clear how will it carry out the justification for registration under this Law? For deregistered within 14 days we will report activity that is a very good business environment. See how many companies are registered under the VAT Act. The restriction will be applied in full by applying the method of similar business and sanctioning companies that have not registered under this Law with a reasonable assumption. For me, colleagues, that definition is nonsense. Here the question arises: why are the texts of art. 176a and 176b as laid down in § 26 and 27 respectively? The motives given by the government are hardly clear. I suppose that with the cancellation of these articles, the protection of a fissure or amnesty is given to those entities from which a security is requested for registration under the VAT Act, or the collateral is taken on the basis of this Law, without issuing an act to the competent authority. If this text is adopted, it is likely that time will show for whom or for what this cancellation is necessary. Regarding the new restrictive actions aimed at seasonal tourism business mainly, it is also evident from the text in the creation of this point. 1 in § 15, creating a new para. 3 and para. 4 to art. 102 of the current VAT Act. I will not quote it, the text is in front of you, colleagues, read it and think it over properly! Here we come to the essential part of this ZID, namely "Transitional and Final Provisions" as you just mentioned, Professor Gechev. From § 22 we understand that the limitation of cash payments are again on the agenda despite its explicit cancellation in the previous experience of the government. We don't need to get into the controversy about introducing the restriction, because it was quite discussed a few months ago, not only by parliament, but also by business. I think the last one's opinion in this case is significant. The other changes with which we from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, after a long debate, are strongly opposed to, will expose them in several directions, namely: the changes to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. The introduction of the concept of evidence in the declaration of imported taxes and insurance contributions abroad. Colleagues, they're all indicted because they have to apply evidence to their tax returns. I declare and therefore apply evidence. This is ridiculous, guys! There is no interpretation of the concept of evidence anywhere in this text of the PID. How they will be interpreted by the verifier, that is to say, subjectivism is permitted in assessing whether or not they are evidence. Another collision, colleagues, with the cancellation of art. 53, para. 6, by the current Act, natural persons shall benefit from a 5% discount from the tax due to be paid in compliance with the conditions laid down in this Article, with the following para. 7 which is newly created, imposes obligations on all self-insuring persons. We are talking about sole traders, free professions, registered farmers to submit a declaration under art. 50 of the Law only electronically. Explain to me what this measure requires. This is how I understand it: small and medium-sized businesses, free professions, farmers until 2017 were working the carrot and starting from 2018. Because you manage to stimulate the small and medium-sized business with restrictions. Here he sees the compassionate thought of the portfolio deputy prime minister, of whom not once before by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we have asked for the resignation because it is very useful for everyone in this country. Excuse me, but how is the cobbler going to file his annual declaration electronically? I'll tell you she'll pay! Another favor he has to pay from his so-called income. Or Uncle Gosho, the shepherd, who, in addition to his dramatically increased insurance contributions, will go to the district center to get a personal identification code from the NRA's office, and previously registered an email address, travel expenses, institutional wandering, the search for an accountant... What kind of idyll is that, guys? Against the backdrop of the lack of means to feed, to heal, don't let God have a family... Prose?! Last but not least, we in the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we have not been able to clarify why the deadline for submitting a declaration under art. 73 of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals is shifting two months ahead? We were told by the Commission that if the recipient of the income had forgotten that he had been paid one, we would not understand how he would enter the information system of the NRA, he would see that the payer of the income declared his name and so, you see, he would be able to include this income in his declaration. Here comes the opposite hypothesis, colleagues. As the payer has not declared my name, why should I declare my income while, at the same time, in the current Act until 30 September, you have the option to submit a corrective declaration? The explanation in this case sounds somewhat inappropriate and inconclusive. Therefore, colleagues, we from the Parliamentary Group of..The Movement for Rights and Freedoms... will not support this bill and I call on you and you to give a negative vote. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Shevked. Are there lines? I can't see. For your speech, Mrs. Hristova...........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! We strongly do not reject these changes in this Bill, as many of the proposed changes agree. I would rather dwell on these changes that we disagree with. They were largely presented by the colleague before me. I will start with the new proposal to limit payments in cash. We cannot explain why, until two months ago between first and second reading was categorically rejected the proposal to limit payments in cash for 5000 BGN, now with the same reasons being tabled again as a proposal. At a meeting of the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy, Minister Goranov made a presentation of the measures they have taken to curb the grey economy and smuggling. He paid great attention to the change introduced by this Bill to limit payments in cash. One of his main arguments was the finding he made by saying that he had bothered to look at statistics and what he had established. As of 31 December 2009, the money in circulation in the country was 9 billion. BGN, and the money in the banks of companies, according to statistics, was 10 billion. lv. At the end of 2016, money in circulation was 14 billion. BGN, and the money in the banks of the companies.. 13,5 billion. lv. That is why he said that this led him to take urgent measures to limit cash payments. I took the trouble of making simple calculations and found that the share of money in the companies' accounts for the money in circulation at the end of 2009 was 111% and this share at the end of 2016 was 96%. The law on the limitation of cash payments was adopted in February 2011, i.e. for six years this share of the funds of the company's banks has decreased by only 15% by 1,25% per year, which proves that this measure to limit cash payments achieves 1,25% per year of limitation of the gray economy and smuggling. For us, this motive for introducing restrictions on cash payments will not do this job. Therefore, other mechanisms should be sought to limit the grey economy. I mean another quote from Minister Goranov's presentation. I quote directly the shorthand, he says: "Let this one of you understand the Members of the National Assembly who attended the meeting, who says that the payment of a single account of 5000 BGN. is a common practice for ordinary Bulgarian citizens. We are not talking about a one-time payment here, honourable Members. Perhaps the minister has only read the Law on limitation of payments in cash, where there is really talk of a one-off payment. If he reads the Ministry of Finance instruction, which came out two months after the Law and is five times greater than the Law, and even in it they have not bothered to change the amount of 15 thousand to 10,000. BGN, because at the date of creation was 15 thousand. The value threshold of 15 thousand should be taken into account. lv. refers both to any self-payment, i.e. cash flow, and to any contractual payments in respect of which the total amount of cash flows is equal to or exceeds 15 thousand. BGN, including all taxes and fees thereto. So there's a gap between the Law and the Decree. The bad news is that these instructions are issued according to art. 10, para. 6 of the NRA Law, where the Minister of Finance has the right to give mandatory instructions to the National Revenue Agency. The Guidelines also explicitly state the example of rents. Last time in my speech, I told you that many ordinary individuals will suffer here because they have no way of knowing about this instruction and have no way of knowing how things stand. I'll give you an example. If a natural person rents out an apartment and the monthly rent is 1000 BGN, if concluded in one year, the value of the contract is 12 thousand. BGN, but he, having not read the Instructions, will say that it is 1000 BGN, and can pay in cash and the penalty, if he paid in cash for the first infringement is 25%, is 3000 BGN, for the second infringement is 6000 BGN. Also in the Instructions, note that this also applies to supply contracts that may not only be written but also oral. I went into these details to imagine what an absurd and dangerous situation the Bulgarian citizens are put in mostly, to work the small and medium business, following the Law on limitation of payments in cash and to be fined, not by the NRA's instruction, as they will probably not be familiar with it. That is why, according to the Parliamentary Group of the Volja, we are putting a very serious question for the second time, this Law on limitation of payments not only needs to be changed, but a new Law must be drawn up, rather than working for six years on one Guideline and possibly then to be able to think about any changes in that direction. Therefore, we will refrain from supporting this bill. We also want to propose that there will be no more 5% discount for individuals, as the conditions for its use have dropped, that is, all tax returns must be submitted electronically, but the conditions are two. The second condition is that if the natural person, in addition to having submitted his declaration electronically, if he has paid his obligations by 28 February, we propose that the second condition remain, that is, that is, if the natural persons pay their tax obligations by 28 February, they will benefit from this 5% discount in order to be stimulated in time to pay their taxes. Minister Goranov said the revenue in the budget, which will come from the introduction of this change, is a million and two hundred. I think it's not that much to do this curtsy to individuals. The colleague mentioned the declaration under art. 73 that needs to be passed. The period from 30 April to 28 February has changed. I just want to add that the penalty is very high. If this period can be at least until 31 March when the annual declarations are submitted, because for each undeclared income of a natural person the penalty is BGN 250. If they miss five individuals, you can imagine what kind of sanctions they have to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u21	Thank you, dear Mrs. Christova. Replies to Mrs. Christova's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I don't see any speeches, colleagues. I'm closing the debate. Moving on to voting mode. I put to the first vote of the Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 702-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. Vote 207 MPs: 119, against 80, abstention 8. The bill was passed in the first vote. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I ask for a procedure - the period between first and second readings for the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax to be six days.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u23	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 199 MPs: 116, against 75, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE BUDGET OF NATIONAL HEALTH CACUS FOR 2018 The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce to you the President of the Commission the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u24	Dear Mr. President, I ask for a procedure in this Chamber to be admitted. Dr. Miroslav Nenkov, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Health, Professor Kamen Plotchev, Director of the National Health Insurance Fund, Ganka Avramova, Director of the Directorate of Budget and Finance and Director of the National Health Insurance Fund, and Ms. Tanya Mileva, Head of the Political Office of the Minister of the Bulgarian Presidency.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Please vote on admission of persons to the Chamber. Vote 166 MPs: 147 against 9, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to take their seats. Procedure. I'm listening. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2, according to our Rules, I am doing a procedure on points two, three and four, i.e. on the budgets today, which we will look at and report to the plenary, there is virtually no representative of the Council of Ministers, there are deputy ministers, but there is no representative of the Council of Ministers. Please invite to the Chamber a representative of the Council of Ministers, Deputy Prime Minister, to attend the review of these most important laws for Bulgaria, which determine the policy of the government for next year and to request their presence here because there may be questions asked to them. After all, we are looking at first reading the country's budgets! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u27	Thank you, Mr. Popov. We'll re-invite representatives of the government. At the moment, the guests we just voted for are taking their seats. The government, you know, is at a meeting in Brussels, so it will be a little difficult to provide and oblige ministers to attend today's meeting. Mrs. Stoyanova, continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u28	♪ I can't believe under the budget bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018 No 702-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a meeting held on 2 November 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed the Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, Deputy Minister Kiril Ananiev and Directors of Directorates; Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Miroslav Nenkov, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), representatives of the word, employer and patient organizations, as well as representatives of the trade unions. The reasons for the bill were presented by Mr. Kiril Ananiev "Deputy Minister of Finance and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF." He outlined the following priorities, which are laid down in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for the following year: - in the first place, the electronic health care, health care and child care, prevention and early diagnosis of diseases and quality medical and dental care; - second place the requirements for control activities will be increased in terms of both medical and financial aspects of medical and pharmacies contractors; - in third place... an adequate drug policy aimed at ensuring quality, effective and affordable medicinal products. During the medium-term budgetary forecast period for the next three years, the aim will be to create conditions and sustainability of financial resources, efficiency and control of expenditure. Deputy Minister Ananiev pointed out that the draft budget for 2018 of the National Health Insurance Fund is in line with the general budgetary framework. The indicators under this budget correspond to the indicators in the consolidated Financial Programme and the state budget. It ensures payments during the year, the activities included in this package of health activities financed by the National Health Insurance Fund. The main indicators of the NHIF budget for 2018 are the following: I. Revenues and transfers all: Total revenue and transfers of 3,860.0 million are expected to take place in the revenue part of the 2018 budget. BGN, or with 407.2 million. lv. more than 2017 Health insurance revenues are proposed to amount to 3 818,5 million. lv. or 404,7 million. lv. more than 2017 From the total amount of health insurance revenue of 3 818,5 million lv. For health insurance contributions, 2 556,3 million are expected to occur. BGN, or 276,6 million lv. More than 2017, and transfers to health insurance from the central budget of 1 262,2 million. BGN, or with 128.1 million. lv. more than the transfer for 2017 Of non-tax revenue: fines, penalties and penalty interest for 2018 is intended to be 17,5 million. BGN, or 2.5 million. lv. more than 2017 Transfers from the Ministry of Health to finance the costs of medicinal products are provided for vaccines and their implementation activities for the health activities under art. 82, para. 2, p. 3 of the Health Act; for activities for health uninsured persons including: complex dispensary (ambulatory) surveillance in patients with skin-venerial and psychiatric diseases; intensive treatment; activities under art. 82, para. 1, t. 2 of the HZ and for the amounts referred to in art. 37, para. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. lv. II. Expenditures and transfers all: Total expenditure and transfers for 2018 were estimated at 3,860.0 million. lv. This amount is 407.2 million. lv. more than the amount for 2017 In the framework of the proposed amount for total costs and transfers, only 3855.4 million are provided for expenditure. lv. and to provide transfers to the National Revenue Agency under art. 24, p. 6 of the Health Insurance Act and of budgetary undertakings which entered into contracts for carrying out medical services with the National Health Insurance Fund are 4.6 million. lv. On the total cost 3,855.4 million. lv. For current expenditure, EUR 3,735.8 million is available. BGN, with this amount being greater by 634.4 million. lv. of the same expenditure for 2017; for the acquisition of non-financial assets for 2018 are planned 5,0 million. BGN, or less than one million leva of those for 2017 From the amount of the current expenditure 3,735.8 million. lv. the most relative share is the cost of health insurance payments, which for 2018 are estimated at a total of 3,662,1 million. BGN, or more by 630.1 million. lv. by the 2017 Act. These funds shall be allocated as follows: 1. for primary outpatient medical care 207.2 million lv. or 7.2 million. lv. more than 2017 2. for specialized outpatient medical care (including For complex dispensary (ampulator) surveillance, 222,3 million BGN, or 10,0 million. lv. more than 2017 3. for dental aid 157,0 million BGN, or 10,0 million. lv. more than 2017; 4. for medical-diagnostic activity 80.0 million BGN, or 2.5 million. lv. more than 2017 5. for medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes for home treatment in the territory of the country and for medicinal products for the treatment of malignancy in the conditions of hospital medical care, which the NHIF pays outside the value of the medical services provided 1000,0 million. BGN, or with 201,4 million lv. more than 2017, includingSubcutaneous or intravenous use 5.1. for medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes for home treatment in the territory of the country 718.0 million. lv. or 145 million. lv. more than 2017; 5.2. for medicinal products for the treatment of malignancy under hospital care, which the NHIF pays beyond the value of the medical services provided 282.0 million. lv. and 56.4 million. lv. more than 2017 6. for medical devices administered in hospital medical care 98.0 million lv. or 18,0 million. lv. more than 2017 7. for hospital medical care 1,424.6 million. BGN, or with 367.1 million. lv. more than 2017 8. for other health insurance payments with the Bill is offered an amount of 73,0 million. BGN, or with 13,0 million. lv. more than 2017, including the total amount is for medical assistance provided in accordance with the rules for coordination of social security systems. The NHIF budget for 2018 proposed staff costs of 37,6 million. lv. This amount is greater than the amount of personnel expenditure for 2017 by 3.4 million. lv. For the maintenance of the administrative health insurance activities for 2018, it is proposed to spend the amount of 12.1 million. BGN, or by 1,0 million lv. more than 2017 For 2018, payments on account of the funds from the transfer to the Ministry of Health under para. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, or as much as they are for 2017. This amount is intended to be spent on: 1. medicinal products and activities related to their application under art. 82, para. 2, p. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. 2. activities for health-insured persons including: complex dispensary (ambulatory) surveillance in patients with skin-venerous and psychiatric diseases; intensive treatment lv. 3. activities for health-insecure women under art. 82, para. 1, t. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. This amount has been reduced by 0,6 million compared to 2017. lv. 4 amounts per art. 37, para. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. This amount has been increased by 0,6 million compared to 2017. lv. The 2018 Bill for the acquisition of non-financial assets offers a cost of 5,0 million. lv. or one million leva less than 2017 For a reserve, including for unforeseen and urgent costs, EUR 114,6 million has been provided. BGN, or with 226,8 million. lv. less than 2017 The bill offers transfers to the National Revenue Agency under art. 24, p. 6 of the Health Insurance Act and of budgetary undertakings which have concluded contracts for the provision of medical services with the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018 to amount to 4,6 million. BGN, or more by 0,5 million. lv. From 2017 The budget of the NHIF for 2018 is prepared in the current compulsory health insurance contribution of 8 percent, not providing for its change. III. The budget bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018 proposes a balanced budget balance, as was adopted by the 2017 budget. A discussion was held on the bill, which raised various opinions and raised many questions. People's Representative Georgi Mihailov (BGP of BSP for Bulgaria) expressed no support for the Bill due to lack of policies and solutions to limit the costs of medicines; non-payment of medicinal products with a new non-proprietary name, for which an application for inclusion in the Positive Drug List is submitted; no increase in the cost of extra-hospital aid is envisaged. People's representative Nigyar Jafer (from the PG of the DPS) raised questions about the reduction of the reserve of 10 per cent of 3 per cent; e-health, which would increase control and transparency in the spending of the public resource; limiting the payment for medicinal products with a new non-proprietary name, which would limit the possibility for new technologies to be made available to the Bulgarian patients. People's representative Krastina Taskova (og PG of Voljja ") also expressed lack of support for limiting the payment for medicinal products with a new non-proprietary name, which would deprive Bulgarian citizens of the possibility of treatment for medicines and in new activities. The President of the Bulgarian Medical Union Dr. Ventsislav Grozev expressed his basic support for the vision of an urgent need to increase the financial resources for health care expressed by the Bill. He expressed his opinion that in the proposed Bill there was no reflection of the philosophy of the National Health Strategy adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 17 December 2015. "Concept and objectives for health 2020" and "National Health Strategy 2020" for the permanent release of the burden of medical care in the outpatient segment of the system. Dr. Grozev insisted on increasing the funds provided for outpatient care provided for in the primary hospital care and specialized hospital care. Support was also expressed for the idea of non-disclosure of new medical facilities, but not for non-disclosure of new activities or activities that will be carried out by the outpatient in hospital care. The President of the Bulgarian Dental Union Dr. Nikolay Sharkov expressed principle support for the Bill and the increase of the financial resources in health care, as well as hope for the realization of the idea of introducing an absolutely new activity - the prosthesis of the age group over 65 years. The President of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union Mr. Ilko Getov expressed the opinion that the funds for next year's medicines are below the minimum and that no measures are indicated to improve the access of patients to new therapies, medicines and pharmaceutical services. The Chairman of the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals Ms. Milka Vasileva expressed hope that the right steps will be taken so that health services and health care professionals can receive a decent pay. The President of the National Association of General Practitioners in Bulgaria Dr. Lyubomir Kirov expressed the opinion that the budget of NHIF in the part of non-hospital care and in particular in the part of the hospital medical care or general practitioners is extremely useful as an increase. The Chairman of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria Mr. Vasil Velev said that half of the employers' organizations support the draft budget because there is an attempt to introduce more order and limit waste and abuse, albeit by administrative means. The recommendations and criticisms are that there are not enough policies to improve prevention and pre-hospital aid, electronization of health care and the lack of market self-regulation mechanisms to introduce more order and the resource to be used as well as to get where it needs to be. The representative of the Federation of Trade Unions in Health and Health at the CNSB Plamen Radoslavov expressed support for the bill, expressing a recommendation for dropping the limit for revealing new activities in hospitals. The representative of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Mrs. Olga Chogunska expressed lack of support for the bill due to ineffective use of public resources. According to the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce, the increase in funds does not guarantee a higher quality of health services and it is imperative to improve the control of the really implemented health services in order to limit the opportunities for fictitious medical care. With regard to the distribution of funds in healthcare, it is necessary to devote more weight to financing outpatient assistance and strengthening preventive reviews. The Vice-President of the Bulgarian Industrial Association Mr. Dimitar Brankov paid attention to the underfinancing of municipal hospitals and the taking of legislative measures for their rescue. In response to the questions raised and expressed opinions, Minister Goranov said that the health system is loaded with extremely high expectations and with incredible network failures, with regard to the structure and resource allocation. In order to overcome this inefficiencies, which should not be sought in the budget, it is necessary to hold an extensive debate on which the Health Commission and the word organizations will determine what is the amount of resources needed in order to be able to finance enough Bulgarian healthcare. Until the end of such a debate before the Finance Ministry or its representatives in the Supervision of the Health Insurance Fund will be the question in the most effective way whether the money of the Bulgarian taxpayer is spent, with the most effective structure is being done. After the discussion, a vote was held with the following results: On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018, No 702-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. We are about to hear the report. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we are looking at one of three budgets. The first small budget, as we call the two budgets of the National Health Insurance Fund and the state social security. It is absolutely unacceptable, colleagues, that there is no representative of the Council of Ministers in this House. Deputy Ministers are not members of the Council of Ministers, they are members of the political cabinet of the respective minister. They may give an expert opinion, perhaps political, but the only Law on which the legislative initiative has only the Council of Ministers cannot be submitted and viewed in the Chamber without a representative of the importer. The importer is the Council of Ministers. Please, we've made all kinds of compromises in this room, but compromises still have their limits! A representative of the Council of Ministers, if it cannot be the minister, should at least be a deputy prime minister who is currently acting prime minister or prime minister himself, at all a representative of the importer should come to the Chamber. If he doesn't show up in half an hour, we're gonna ask for a break and a stop-watch while he takes his place here as the importer's representative, because that's how we broadcast to people a message that this job is unserious. Looking at this budget is no big deal, and we all know it. And another procedure that you can put to the vote if you think it's right. We propose that all three budgets should be transmitted on the Bulgarian National Radio and Bulgarian National Television, because this is the basic law that affects the fate of all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u31	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Inverse opinion of Mr. Tsonev's proposal? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. Probably the offer of a broadcast or the presence?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u32	No, Mr. Chairman, about the presence and representation of the central executive. I did not understand much from the opinion of colleague Tsonev. Specifically, in this situation, when we have a minister in resignation of the Ministry of Health, there is a Deputy Minister of Health who is acting as Minister. Colleagues, let us be clear about this: it is not only the minister who represents a ministry. The Ministry has a political cabinet [[Reply from DPS.]] How could it not be so? Several are the levels of representation. You demand representation from a ministry minister where the minister is currently resigned. Currently, the highest representative of this ministry is present. The Deputy Minister, who is acting as Minister. What other representation should be provided? There's no point in turning around in a devil's circle to prove representation. There is no way to return a minister to whom the resignation was provoked and the man is resigned.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u33	He's still a minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u34	Colleague Hamid, resigned. If he wants, he will continue to perform the function until the resignation vote, but he is resigned. [[Heckling]] And he's assigned. And we have a representative from the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u35	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. There is no doubt, we all know that Dr. Nenkov is in the Chamber because I did not officially announce that the Deputy Minister of Health is present in the Chamber. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, our procedure is: firstly, there is a portfolio Deputy Prime Minister, secondly, we want a representative of the importer, thirdly, according to the Council of Ministers' decision is clearly and clearly recorded at point three. They do not implement their own decision and turn the National Assembly into a rubber seal. We don't know what we're talking about! Here's the third point: the Minister of Finance to present the Bill on the first item in the National Assembly. "I am talking about the Bill we are currently looking at about this point. It is recorded in the decision of the Council of Ministers. Obviously, Mr. Goranov has more important meetings in Brussels than coming here to attend the adoption of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. [[Shouting from GERB.]] Once again, I urge and do the procedure. Please oblige the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Simeonov, to come here to see the budgets. Currently we do not know which executive power Bulgaria is governed by. From deputy ministers and directorates of directorates apparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u37	Thank you, Mr. Popov! Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today we have no representative of the Council of Ministers. The bad news is that we do not have the presence of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund, and this is the most important figure - the person who is responsible for spending more than 3 billion. and a half "3 billion" $800,000. lv. I think that, in the absence of the President of the Supervisory Board, we cannot look at the budget. You know that the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, who is present, is simply implementing the decisions of the Supervisory Board. I think we're in nonsense.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u39	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Before we proceed, I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for direct broadcasting of the national media meeting. Next, Mr. Tsonev's proposal contained a period within which to take measures to secure the persons. I'm making this commitment. As a result of the efforts of the Presidency, the Deputy Minister is already here. We will do what is necessary to ensure that executives are present at a certain level. We are voting for a proposal for direct broadcast on national media at today's meeting. Vote 192 MPs: 77, against 58, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. We are continuing with the report by the Committee on Health. Here you are, Mrs Daritkova, to familiarize the Members of the National Assembly with the Commission's report. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018, No 702-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At a joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Health, held on 2 November 2017, the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund was reviewed and discussed. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Finance Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Miroslav Nenkov, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund, Mr. Kiril Ananiev, the Manager of the National Health Insurance Fund Professor Kamen Plotchev, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, trade unions, employers, word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund, Mr. Kiril Ananiev. He introduced the MPs to the main financial parameters set out in the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018. The planned revenue and transfers amount to 3 billion. The Commission 978 thousand. lv. The funds are allocated to the admission of a health insurance contribution of 8 per cent and the estimates reflect the effect of an increase in the minimum wage from 1 January 2018 from 460 BGN. BGN 510. and the effect on the amount of transfers for health insurance from an increase in the part of the insurance income on which the State contributes health contributions to the persons insured at the expense of the state budget from 55 per cent from 2016 and 5 per cent per cent per year from each subsequent year until the minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons is reached under Art. 1. 40, para. 4a of the Health Insurance Act. The employer's pay and health insurance ratio for 2018 is 60:40. The planned costs and transfers amount to 3 billion. The Commission 978 thousand. BGN, of which 3 billion 622 million. 60,000. £700. they're for health insurance payments. The planned funds provide for the purchase of medical assistance within the scope of compulsory health insurance guaranteed by the NHIF budget. Mr. Ananiev stressed that in 2018 the funds for health insurance payments for primary and specialized outpatient medical care, medical diagnostic activity, hospital medical care, dental care and medicinal products, medical devices and diet foods for special medical purposes are increased. The reserve, including for unforeseen and urgent expenses, as proposed by the Law, shall be amended to the provision of art. 26, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act is three percent of the income collected from health insurance contributions and transfers for health insurance from other budgets and amounted to 114 million. 554 thousand. 300 leva. The draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018 was drawn up while maintaining the condition of a balanced budget balance. The Bill proposes amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act, which aim to increase the effectiveness of the management of the funds for health insurance payments and improve the control activity of the National Health Insurance Fund. An amendment to the definitions set out in Article 1 shall be proposed. 26, para. 1, t. 1 of the Health Insurance Act a percentage determining the funds for a reserve, including for unforeseen and urgent costs, formed by the collected income from health insurance contributions and transfers, for health insurance contributions from other budgets, from ten percent to three percent. According to the management of the National Health Insurance Fund, this will ensure predictability, transparency and predictability of health insurance payments, more efficient distribution of funds and control over their spending. With the amendments and additions to art. Article 15 19 The functions of the Supervisory Board and the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund shall be refined. With the change in art. 24, para. 1 A legal opportunity is created for the National Health Insurance Fund to acquire real estate for its own needs and in the long term will be sought financially the most effective solutions for the National Health Insurance Fund. An addition is available in art. 37, para. 6, ensuring the provision of a report document to patients when paying a user fee for each visit to the doctor or dentist. The opinion of the Bulgarian Medical Union was presented by the President of the word organization, Dr. Ventsislav Grozev. It clarified that the expenditure part of the budget, although nominally increased by 407 million. BGN, is not planned to the extent necessary given the philosophy of the National Health Strategy and the Concept "Health goals 2020" and the strategic objectives set in these documents. The envisaged increase in the spending part of the 2018 budget is extremely insufficient with regard to the funds for health insurance payments for primary and specialised outpatient medical care. In conclusion, Dr. Grozev pointed out that the Bulgarian Medical Union does not support the proposed texts of the provisions of § 11, para. 2 and § 12, t. 3 and 5 of the Bill. The President of the Bulgarian Dental Union Dr. Nikolay Sharkov informed the MPs that despite the increase in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018, dental aid funds are extremely insufficient compared to the volume of activities planned to be implemented next year. He expressed hope that during the negotiation of the National Framework Treaty on Dental Activities for 2018 the opportunities for financing full prosthetics for the population over 65 years in age groups will be sought. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health discussed the financial parameters proposed in the Draft and raised specific questions regarding the possibility for the National Health Insurance Fund to ensure that all Bulgarian citizens are provided with affordable and quality medical care within the framework of the proposed budget for 2018. They stressed that increasing the financial resource in itself will not lead to a significant change in the functioning of our health insurance system without effective measures being taken to increase control and create mechanisms for adequate distribution and spending of the funds from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. Some Members of the National Assembly indicated that the wording of the provisions of § 6 and § 11, para. 2 of the bill will lead to limiting the access of Bulgarian citizens to modern and quality medical care and drug therapy. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results, the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018, No 702-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u41	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. We proceed to the debates on the proposed Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund, No 702-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers. We're opening the debate. Any Members of the National Assembly wishing to make speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm not gonna hide being too surprised by what's going on. According to all sociological studies, healthcare is in the troika of the most important problems of society, along with corruption and education. The public says clearly: we need a new public contract in the field of health. In this situation, the people responsible for the distribution of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund are missing today. They are not there, given that in the election program of GERB the health care was quite well reflected and I thought there would be changes and reforms. The government of Mr. Borisov 2 with Minister Moskov declared intentions for many changes and it tried to make them. Unfortunately, they were not supported technologically and the judiciary abolished practically everyone. That is, we have been thinking for several years that there should be a reform in the field of health because this is what the Bulgarian voter wants, but again we are at its starting point. Our proposed budget lacks a strategy and concept for the development of health care. Let us not deceive ourselves today. The main budget of healthcare is not the budget of the Ministry of Health, but the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. With the policies, with the strategy, with the views in it determines the future of Bulgarian healthcare next year, and such a concept is missing. Even on this fiery issue, the question of demonopolising health insurance is missing again policies. On top of that, we also have outstanding legal decisions of the Supervisory Board to limit contracts with new establishments, new activities and new medicines, new molecules, as we say in the field of health. We definitely believe that this is a budget of the status quo, a budget that does not bode well for healthcare in the Republic of Bulgaria. We are once again represented by the inability to transfer numbers from one paragraph to another, something that is not decisive is not structurally defining in healthcare and will not bring anything good. We're talking about the country being in an acute demographic crisis, and some say it's in a demographic disaster. One of the policies that can be undertaken in this regard is health policy. A policy that concerns the protection of the health of newborns, children, students, elderly people. There are no real proposals for solutions in this area. Bulgarian healthcare is not in good condition.. We all know that. Bulgarian hospitals are in their finals and I say it most responsiblely. We are witnessing how one after another every day Bulgarian hospitals have concerns that they will fail. And the biggest ones, I'm not talking about municipal hospitals. We all witnessed the situation in Burgas, in Vratsa, in Vidin, in Stara Zagora, in Lovech, in Dimitrovgrad, in Pomorie and many others. Every day mayors call and say, "What are we going to do about our hospital? Please help me! The effective assistance mechanism is precisely through the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. Here, however, we do not see such a policy at stake. I am also impressed by the opinion of the Fiscal Council, which strongly criticises the proposed budget, mostly......................................... about the lack of policy, the protection of the activities of municipal hospitals as major hospitals in the hospital health care system. My fellow Members, there's obviously not much we can do. However, we have some concrete proposals. First of all, what I said was a policy for the demographic crisis. We want to increase the budget by 30 million. 552,000. 300 leva. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The increase is 100 leva. of the funds, the so-called "clinical path of birth." Last year we had 63,000. births. For the second year we have seen that the births of Bulgarians are more abroad than in our country. We've got 63,000 anyway. births. This makes a minimum amount of 6 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. Those who have attended the birth of their children know the conditions in the Bulgarian obstetrics and gynecology wards. I'm definitely telling you: the funding of the path of BGN 530. does not meet the needs of this main share of Bulgarian healthcare. In one birth, if operational, 7 people are involved. With that 530 lv. What are we paying for? We don't pay anything. The claims of the mothers are justified. Secondly, we recently attended a round table on pediatric matters. There colleagues said that the clinical pathways paid for in the field of child health were underestimated, insufficient. This concerns both neonatology, where you imagine, if a premature baby is required to apply the so-called surfactant, the means with which his lungs are stretched. The value of this surfactant is equal to the value of the path. And the other means of raising it, which is quite prolonged, as you know, are practically no longer left. This results in restriction, stagnation, denial of the use of modern drugs in the field of neonatology. This is the case with paediatric treatment pathways for older children. We offer an increase of 15% in the path in pediatrics, which, according to our calculations, represents a sum of about 15 million. lv. Dear colleagues, in 2017 we have seen an interesting fact. The Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund shall not implement its decision. What's this about? It concerns the payment of an invoiced and accepted activity by the National Health Insurance Fund for the payment of the so-called excess activity for the period April 2016 which amounts to 19 million. 252,000. 300 BGN, of which 18 million 852,000. lv. is for medical activities and 400,000. 300 leva. for medical supplies. There is a decision No 4 of the Supervisory Board of 17 January 2017, with which this activity must be repaid. To this day, this activity has not been paid off. Here I do not ask the question of the other subliminal activity, for the other periods.................................................................................................. 50 million. BGN, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et We believe that this decision of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund must definitely be implemented. Once again, it is worth 19 million. 252,000. 300 leva. Recently, much has been said about the refusal to pay the dental work, which concerns the prosthetics of elderly people over 65 years of age. Here I want you all to clearly understand that prosthetics are not just restoring these people's aesthetics, it's restoring the function. It is known in medicine that disorders in chewing function lead to disorders in almost all systems of the body. Disinfecting digestion is one of the most severe problems of the elderly. Therefore, we propose in accordance with the proposal of the Bulgarian dental union with an increase in non-allocations, that is to say the money to be taken at the expense of the undistributed part of the reserve, an increase of 15 million. lv. of the dental budget to ensure the prosthesis of older people over 65 years from 1 September 2018 I think these are just some of the problems we can deal with. I think we should all be engaged. What I cannot agree with is that when six months we talk about health problems, when the Minister of Health resigns when the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund agrees and says that there are problems, at the same time we look at a budget that does not solve any of these problems. I think this budget has serious health issues. They will be mostly in the field of hospital healthcare, of public hospitals, of mixed hospitals and of municipal hospitals. I would not like to be in the position of those in charge when white coats make their intentions known. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u43	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Replies to Professor Yordanov's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Ibrishimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u44	Madam President, honourable Members! For me, the proposed draft budget is not adapted to the needs of our health system and therefore I will not support it and I will make my arguments very briefly. We cannot, in a modern-day developing state with an effective health system, which we have a claim to have, impose by law a moratorium on new medical activities and medicinal products. What are we saving with this, ladies and gentlemen? Every Bulgarian citizen has the right to treatment in foreign countries, European countries and there the valuation of this treatment is worth more than that in Bulgaria. This money, if one Bulgarian patient goes to be treated in another country in which he is entitled in the European Union, will be paid again by our Health Insurance Fund in times more expensive than if this treatment is carried out here in Bulgaria. How will hospitals, which are already sufficiently indebted, be able to restructure and update their activities if they have such a prohibition by law? What do we do with 230 million? lv. liabilities to foreign health insurance accounts? What do we do with 72 million? responsibilities of the Health Insurance Fund to hospitals, to the so-called preliminary activity, as much as I hate to talk about limits. These are still services for which the hospitals have incurred costs, and we cannot fail to pay them because these costs have been incurred because they have respected the Constitution. They have not returned a single Bulgarian patient and have provided him with the much-needed service to treat him. What do we do with dental help and the promised prosthetics for the elderly? What is proposed as an increase will barely be enough to cover these activities, which are currently financed by the Health Insurance Fund in the part of The other thing that's important as numbers, we have 408 million. lv. increase. But we have 72 million. lv. responsibilities to hospitals for over-liminal activity. We have 230 million. lv. Unpaid to other people's cases. We have with the permission of the Supervisory Board of this year's decision to transfer 35 million. lv. for unpaid medicinal products to the new budget for 2018. Then how much will the increase be for this year, if you consider this money as expenditure? You all know, and if you all admit that the collapse of the health system started exactly from that 2 billion. BGN, which transferred 2010 from the field of health to the general budget, and if you admit that this is the case, now is the time to adjust and think about a serious correction of these figures that are currently proposed in this Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibrishimov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines? To speak, Dr. Jaffer. Colleagues, let us congratulate our guests from Burgas who are on the balcony today and attend some of the most interesting debates in the National Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u46	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I do not know how interesting the debates are for our guests, but it is evident that there is little interest from the MPs in how 3 billion will be spent. and nearly 900 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 900 million. BGN, which literally concern the health and life of Bulgarian citizens. In the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018 there are new moments, there are old solutions and a pre-known result. There are stated priorities that have no impact in the budget. This budget must solve a very difficult and specific task: how to contain this budget, expenditure, and at the same time to cover high expectations, and with good reason, to patients who want to be treated with high-tech diagnostic procedures and with the most innovative therapies discovered by medical science to date? However, this budget must solve this difficult and specific task in an imbalanced system, and our concerns are that this budget, although offering more money for health, will deepen these imbalances. Disproportions are widespread, they are regional, they are between hospitals, they are in the structure of payments for medical activities and medicines, in the payment for outpatient activities and hospital costs. In this sense, if we pay attention to the new moments in this budget, we should note that it has more money than 407 million more. This money, however, is no more because someone has volunteered to give it, and for the most part is the result of raising the minimum wage, raising the thresholds, increasing the payment by the state of the groups for which it cares and provides. A new decision is also to reduce the 10% operating reserve to 3%. I don't know if that's the most forward-looking solution. The idea of these reserves was in the last quarter to have a buffer and to react to the problems that occurred during the current year. More and more often we are talking about the allocation of this reserve, the first quarter, because we have not assessed the trends when we are making a budget. Thirdly, a new point is two paragraphs requiring a moratorium on the new activities... the disclosure of new medical institutions, as well as the payment of new molecules. We will not agree that if a municipal establishment, for example in Kazanlak, Razlog, Zlatograd, Preslav, Kubrat, decided to reveal a new activity because it has purchased new equipment with the help of municipal authorities or there are new doctors, scholarship students who have come, for example, to receive a ban on revealing such activities. It is true that the state and institutions should regulate the disclosure of medical institutions where there is an over-proposal, but this is not a problem of much of the districts and regions in Bulgaria. This is a problem of Sofia and several university centers. I admit, as my fellow Members have also said, an absolutely new point in considering this year's budget is that it is the first time that he is absent from the Chamber and from the Health Minister debate for certain reasons. The old moments are well known the favorite of all our balanced budget balance. I don't know how we can talk about a balanced budget balance, given that it is known that 260 million are due to treatment in foreign clinics and these clinics will sooner or later demand these funds? The Cashier and Oversight cannot pretend that there is no such deficit and such obligation! In this sense, the budget balance launched is increasingly becoming an accounting equilibric that does not reflect the real financial situation of the Health Insurance Fund, all the more so that in 2016, for example, in the Health Insurance Fund's report, we recorded an excess, given that the deficit is deepening, and the unpaid costs of the medical institutions have long passed the psychological limit of 500 million. This will actually be the first question we will ask the next Minister of Health. In this sense, this budget can be referred to as the budget of the delayed reform. The budget of the impasse, the budget of the attempt to ensure temporary peace. At the same time, this budget is an expression of the inability to stop health trends, the inability to stop financial degradation and to get out of the situation. In this sense, the result is expected and it will demotivate medical professionals who work in the system, despite most money, because they will continue to work in a situation a priori conflict; patients who are late diagnosed because we do not see prevention as a priority, provided that the means for outpatient care and medical diagnostic activities are not increased; we will continue to see bankrupt hospitals. For the first time, it was said that other than hospitals, structures would go bankrupt in extra-hospital aid! Because because of the increase in the minimum wage, I was at least convinced by economists and people who run DCCs that they will have a huge problem because they will not get much increase for next year, and for the first time we will talk about going bankrupt structures in outpatient aid, which is really innovation. I will finish with a friendly advice to colleagues from GERB. Dear colleagues, deploy your election program. The conclusion is that the error is not in something else, but in the system, in the model. Even you in your pre-election program have recorded something that we have been writing for 12 years a demonization of the Health Insurance Fund. You've recorded staged demonopleization, whatever that means, because until now no one has explained what that means. If you want to share with the public, share with the opposition, with the patients, but especially with the word organizations what you intend to do, because so far we have not heard any ideas about change and reform. We declare once again that we will support special demonopolisation of the Casa, as well as all the steps as regards eHealth in the system. We will not support this budget because it will continue to deepen the imbalances in the system and will not solve the problems that are in this system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u47	Thank you, dear Dr. Jaffer. Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u48	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! During the hard years of World War II, the Bulgarian people stood in defence of the Bulgarian Jews, their spiritual leaders, brave and honest citizens, various political forces. With the joint efforts of different, on their ideas and political beliefs, but democraticly thinking, public strata were carried out a work, unparalleled by its scale and final result This historical truth cannot be replaced, rewritten or distorted by interested political circles and countries. She found her proper place in relations between the Bulgarian and the Jewish people and became the value of our interstate communication. The Bulgarian Socialist Party has participated in this historic feat through its representatives through the labor demonstrations in Konyovica and Yucbunar. It is therefore completely untenable for anyone to question our position. Because it is not just verbally expressed as the positions of a number of contemporary parties, but for it have died as members of the Bulgarian Communist Party, RMS and Bulgarian common student union of Nathan Zilberstein, Leon Tajer, Emil Sekerdzhiiski, Matti Rubenova, Mois Levi, Buko Levi, Vela Rubenova and hundreds of Bulgarian Jews. We express our deep concern and disagreement with the attempts to keep the political discussion in today's National Assembly focused on periods of history that divide our nation. Obviously, this is what you're looking for. We are convinced that our responsibility today, as representatives of the Bulgarian people, is to respect history and not use it for new oppositions. Regarding the speech of the MP from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria "Ivo Hristov," he already apologized for his qualification. We remind you that far harsher qualifications, such as bad material, simple and similar with regard to the Bulgarians, have been made by the current prime minister, for whom no excuses have been made so far. We deeply believe that the MPs, regardless of which parliamentary group, have a common constitutional and civic responsibility to work for the better future of Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian state. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Here you are, Professor Mihailov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u50	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would like to begin my speech by quoting the words of the respected Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov, who during the discussion of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, said with the sharpness needed for him that the main problem with which the budget of NHIF is entrusted is the unfinished work in the Bulgarian Parliament. It is necessary to hold a discussion in Parliament about what resources are needed for the implementation of adequate healthcare, which is financed by the budget of the NHIF. And he mentioned his view of who profited from this budget, the drug dealers and medical devices dealers. But out of his attention, something has escaped that is too important for our system, and something that we have paid multiple attention to, and these are the interests of clinical walkers. In this definition, there is nothing illegal because, by law, hospitals are commercial companies and they are engaged in commercial activities. The focus in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and the sharp increase in funds are currently in the section. There the increase is over 400 million in an absolutely recurring distribution scheme and even more in the event of a ban in the relevant paragraph of the Final Provisions of this Law, establishing, discussing new clinical pathways, new clinical procedures and new activities. This is Professor Plotchev, a respected specialist of mine. We have repeatedly spoken in public meetings with him that there should be a serious review not only of the financing of one or another now existing clinical pathways, but also of the division of a certain type of clinical pathways, as they insert in their incorporation quite different in biological aggression and financiency, respectively, diseases. As a consequence, there have been anomalies that you all know very well, but I will allow myself to remind them now. The emergence of numerous private departments in the field of clinical oncology and hematological areas of clinical medicine which require very serious funding and which are not the priority of private hospitals worldwide. A sharp decrease in the activity of paediatric and paediatric hospitals due to a sharp decrease in the funding of paediatric clinical pathways. Also interest in recent months and years is the so-called public-private partnership to the hemodialysis wards. However, the mechanism by which patients are distributed in all these areas will not mention the intervention cardiology that has already become sadly known is very well known, if not to the financiers, then to the professional doctors in the system. All this leads to the real need between first and second readings, as I hope that there will be a hearing capacity, especially from the members of the Health Commission, to be made a serious review not only of the current clinical pathways, but to find the opportunity This serious financial resource of 400 million. lv. It should be aimed at balancing a position between the individual hospitals, as I allow myself to say it as a professional, the active hospitals have long lost some of their value because they cannot send near to the settlements, to the places where the relevant patients live, patients who could in municipal hospitals, smaller hospitals, be treated. Such a path doesn't exist. I appeal to Professor Plochev and ask him with all his abilities, as well as to the honourable Minister Nenkov, to make it possible between first and second readings, not only to say that we agree or not with something which is declared as the basis of the budget framework, to redirect funds to municipal medical institutions. To create such a clinical path to enable the breath of air to these medical establishments, as they will otherwise become dominoes, which will one after another fall within the next 2018. Next, I would like to draw attention to the honourable Members on the problem of another paragraph which, in my opinion, represents unacceptable interference in the constitutional rights of Bulgarian citizens for access to modern innovative treatment. This is the paragraph where new molecules are practically banned from being introduced throughout 2018. I remember very well at a meeting in Brussels when one of the ministers of a Member State of the European Union, the Minister of Health of Slovakia said: "I do not agree in my country with cancer patients to have a 20% less chance of being cured than in any other Member State of the European Union.................................................................... There was a very reasonable proposal of the Bulgarian Medical Union, which, however, was not taken into account when establishing the parameters of this Law... all new molecules, which will be introduced in the next calendar year, to conclude their discussion by August of the previous year. This was ignored and thus created this precedent, which is contrary to the right of every Bulgarian citizen. And here's another question. The Ministry of Health came up with a commendable initiative, which was welcomed by all the parliamentary groups in the Committee on Health, the introduction of the so-called compassionate treatment of patients who are in serious condition in severe diseases, but which can be successfully influenced by molecules that will be paid by the innovators, i.e. by the companies themselves. So how do we explain this professional nonsense? On the one hand, the Ministry of Health introduces the possibility of treatment with innovative molecules of patients in Bulgaria, and on the other hand, the possibility of introducing opportunities for their treatment in Bulgarian citizens is stopped. This Bulgarian citizens will never forgive us. It must not be ignored between first and second readings and should not be resolved in its favorable direction. Next, but no less significant, I would like to draw attention to and support the Medical Union, as well as the Association of General Practitioners in that there is no philosophy in this budget to balance hospital and hospital care. We are all aware, including the representatives of the Ministry of Health, of the National Health Insurance Fund, that the carousel of the clinical trails exhausts the resources of the National Health Insurance Fund and at the same time bleeds the hospital's help. There is nothing in the budget in this direction to balance things out, and therefore, between first and second readings, I believe that the necessary efforts must be made. Finally, but not least in importance, nothing in this budget shows, and it was shown very well by the professional community "Bulgarian Medical Union," a change in the pay of medical professionals. Nowhere in the clinical pathways, nor in the whole algorithm of the Law, which implements the funding of the National Health Insurance Fund, is a single word of the problem. If this does not happen now, all the more so that the conclusion of the National Framework Treaty, and so we warned the Doctor's Union that there is an absolute debalance, we close the framework of the NHIF budget and the contract comes four months later when it is already under completed circumstances and in practice the changes can only be cosmetic. All this can be overcome between first and second readings and I call on the honourable colleagues: both the Health Commission and everyone who cares about Bulgarian healthcare to pay attention to the problems raised by us. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u51	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. A line? Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u52	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Professor Mihailov, sharing the majority, not to say almost everything you have said, but not entirely, there is no way to accept the subjectivity that you have adopted with regard to the discussion, or the forms to be realised in the healthcare system, to be fully realised by the National Assembly. Yeah, that's right, we're ready. Dr. Jaffer just pointed out, and so did you. I am convinced that all fellow doctors here in the National Assembly are ready for such a discussion with a view to defining priorities and finally implementing the reform of the healthcare system. But the vote of all our fellow citizens during the parliamentary elections determines the subjectivity of who to govern, which to govern a majority, then constructed. Not that the opposition has no right to constructive and alternative proposals. On the contrary, we are ready and just now, I will quote again, Dr. Jeffer has made many of these, and I will speak them in a moment. Policies must be formed by the ruling majority. We being constructive as opposition, we're willing to do that. In fact, I propose that there should be consensus at last for health reform to happen, but the responsibility of the government in this regard is clear, and they cannot run away from it. This must be suggested that we discuss and finally take further constructive, constructive steps so that the healthcare system in our country meets all global and European standards. Here, responsibility is clear and subjectivity must be clearly defined, for which we are prepared to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. A line? Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u54	Madam President, I am also making a procedural proposal to extend the group's time on this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u55	Extend the time of all groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u56	I'm making a line from Professor Mikhailov. He is right that in terms of the proposed budget of the NHIF for 2018 there is more financial resource for healthcare. But, Professor Mihailov, not only is the quantity important, but also how this resource is managed. Therefore, between first and second readings, we will make proposals to amend and supplement the Budget Act of the NHIF, as well as the laws relating to it, namely: the Health Act, the Health Insurance Act, the State Budget Act, the Social Assistance Act and the Social Security Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u57	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Third line, Dr. Jaffer, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u58	Dear Professor Mihailov, a presidency is coming. It has been said in the Committee on Health that we have two priorities. The second is access to modern treatment. Maybe that's why there's no minister here today, no deputy prime minister in charge of portfolio. But there's a chief of staff for the presidency, notice!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u59	Thank you, dear Dr. Jaffer. Professor Mihaylov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u60	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Naydenova, Dr. Jaffer and Dr. Chakarov, I thank you for the additions and details you have made. It gives me a terrible impression of the six months that have passed, and I have shared it in the Health Commission, regardless of what you say, Dr. Chakarov, that the initiative should be of the government, I have even been criticised by colleagues, that the main legislative initiator this is the Council of Ministers, but when the mountain does not go to Muhammad, Muhammad must go to the mountain. That is, we now need an initiative that came from parliament to overcome a serious problem, and this problem is called Bulgarian healthcare. This budget will not answer the problems. Even with our proposed changes will not answer these problems! And if there is no will to discuss, will to change, then we will soon respond in October 2018 to the same or similar budget, and we will again exchange the same phrases without having any effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u61	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. Colleagues, I'm announcing a 30-minute break, then there's a statement by Dr. Papasimov. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u62	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. Before the break, the wish to speak was declared by Dr. Julian Papashimov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, honourable colleagues! I will take account of that part of the draft budget of the Health Insurance Fund, which concerns dental assistance. The funds foreseen for 2018 for dental aid amounts to 157 million. In comparison with the funds envisaged for 2017, this is an increase of 10 million. BGN, which amounts to about 7% of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. These funds provide patients up to 18 years of age for free examination and four procedures. Adults are provided for free review and three procedures. You know that by 1 September 2016, only a review and two procedures were provided for older patients. Since then, they have been increased and implemented in the measures of the Health Insurance Fund. I believe that this 10 million increase in the dental aid budget is quite enough. About 6.5 million procedures are included, which are also sufficient for the implementation of provided health dental aid packages for patients up to 18 years of age and older. I'd also like to focus on something that two of our unspeakable colleagues have said. This is what is called the fourth dental activity for the elderly, or an activity that concerns perhaps the most unjust part of the population, people who are partially or totally toothless. The colleagues know very well that we in a conversation with the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund Professor Plochev at a meeting of the Health Commission have raised this issue. His attitude towards introducing such a procedure is absolutely positive and he has two hands, as it is said, for the introduction of such a procedure. But he pointed out in this discussion in the Committee on Health that there are still technical problems with the Bulgarian dental union to be specified and more precisely how the pay of the dental technicians who make these prosthetics will be done. In the same direction spoke the other day the Chairman of the Board Kiril Ananiev, last week, when there was a hearing on the draft budget of the Health Insurance Fund. He said that by clearing the problems and the small details of the introduction of this fourth activity, the Governing Council of the Casa will do everything possible to secure these funds and indeed this part of the people, especially the totally toothless, who can now be said to have virtually no access to dental assistance, to be included in it. So these views, these understandings on the part of the Cassate can donate only one optimism and belief that this will happen. Therefore, I do not see in what sense the Members have criticised that there is no desire to include this fourth activity. I will support the budget of the Health Insurance Fund and call on everyone present in this House to support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u64	And thank you, dear Mr. Papasimov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Assoc. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018 we are currently seeing good macrograms. I am referring to the fact that we are increasing the budget by 407 million globally. Inside the redistribution, we can make some slight adjustments between first and second readings: for primary medical care The big problem is that health care in Bulgaria is still quite underfunded. Along with the other budget, which is a transfer from the National Budget to the Ministry of Health plus the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, the total amount of 3.8 million becomes 4 billion. 330 million. This amount, according to my calculation, is currently around 4% of Bulgaria's gross domestic product. In the near future, we must strive to double this figure. This is really hard. With an 8% health contribution, we need to think about some increases in the future so that this figure can grow to 7 - 8% of gross domestic product. About drug policy. We heard different opinions in the Commission when the budget was heard, but the opinion of the Fiscal Council was impressed. Currently around 1 billion of the National Health Insurance Fund's budget is being spent on drug policy. That's about 30%. Respectable countries that work more with generic drug names that are much cheaper than the original ones, 15-20% of the budget of the relevant health insurance cases are for medicines. In other words, this moratorium, which we must impose, should apply for several years in my opinion, and these percentages should be aligned with the European ones. Here we have a severe dissonance in over-financing of drug policy - 30% of the total budget of the Casa, which is not normal. You yourselves understand that this budget, as I said just now, should be raised twice in the near future. With regard to hospital policy, about 367 million is about 90% of the total increase of 407 million. This is a good sign of financiers that they understand that the problems are mainly in hospitals. That's where the hardest underfunded activity is. I am not only talking about reproductive health, where I work, where there are frappany cases of severely underfunded pathways, although one of the priorities of this government is demographic policy. We will support the budget as a macrogram, retaining the right, together with the experts of the National Health Insurance Fund and the Medical Union respectively, to make some slight changes for second reading in the respective feathers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u66	Thank you, Associate Professor Popovski. Are there any lines? I won't. We're continuing with associate professor Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As has already been said by our parliamentary group, the DPS will not support the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018, because money is being poured into an unreformed system. More means not more efficient spending, but continuing the discontent of both patients and doctors and medical staff working in the system, in fact, what is the situation at the insisted stage. Nothing is indicated or provided for on eHealth, which will allow the health system to exercise much more effective overall control over spending of the funds. We have repeatedly pleaded for reforms, but reform can be implemented naturally with the will of the ruling majority. From what we see in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018, and from what we hear from the speeches as the positions of representatives of the ruling majority, unfortunately there is no such will, and we have, as we have already repeatedly expressed, a willingness to consensus on priorities and reforms that should finally be realised in a late reform system such as the healthcare system, because we see the results. National patient organizations are very worried about the fact, as well as Professor Mihailov pointed out that for medicinal products with a new international name to be applied, included in the Positive Drug List, as the latest achievements for the treatment of a number of diseases, with their not including, unfortunately, we will not have the opportunity and will deprive the Bulgarian patients of new contemporary therapies. In this regard, we can briefly give the example of hepatitis C, where the success rate is 97%. Another aspect for which we will not support the budget is most of the money for extra-hospital assistance. This is another major remark to the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. We see that there is no change in the proportions of outpatient hospital care and in the National Health Strategy 2020, this is set to be in a certain way so as to carry out the burden in outpatient care. With the budget that we are looking at, this will not happen, and in fact will not ease hospital care and patients, seeing that there is a predominance in the emphasis on hospital care, continue to seek her for treatment, even paying in hospital care. As I have already pointed out, the moratorium on financing new hospital activities by another year, as well as new molecules, is being extended. It's hardly the right treatment. We see that instead of limiting access to new modern medicines, to new therapies that deprive the patient, the Cassata could increase control over the release of expensive medicines in hospital and hospital care and even optimize its drug policy so that it could also have access to these newest medicines to treat patients. There are still a number of reasons why we will not support it, but most importantly, there are absolutely no reforms in a late-to-reform healthcare system as it is. They finally have to start and we appeal for this: as Dr. Jaffer has already indicated, by Professor Mihaylov, established system of clinical pathways, searching for a balance between the various hospitals, access in the regions. All this must be very clear and well written. We are ready to support all initiatives, as well as our proposals to achieve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u68	Thank you, dear Assoc. Chakarov. - What's the line? Here's Professor Mikhailov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Dr. Chakarov, I absolutely agree with most of your findings, but I would like to focus once again on the issue that you have raised, which has been put by other colleagues during the discussion. That's the problem with demonopolising the National Health Insurance Fund. It is an extremely delicate and very serious financial issue. I believe that in the course of the next parliamentary months, this issue should be focused precisely on the initiative of the Health Commission in Parliament, as there are many issues that should be resolved on the issues of demonopolism. The first question is what will the National Health Insurance Fund pay as a package of services, which will be the basis of the competitive approach in the creation of other insurance cases. If all of this mechanically only duplicates as hoofs/pastes, then it gets a system that is extremely unstable. There are also many more issues that should be discussed. Therefore, I believe that all the members of the Health Commission and parliamentarians who are concerned with the problem of financing the health system should take part in this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u70	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Any other lines? I won't. A hole? Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Professor Mihailov! By sharing what you have said, we have repeatedly represented the colleagues of our parliamentary group, and I have just pointed out, we are really about demonopolising the National Health Insurance Fund. As you pointed out, the idea is to have a competitive environment. However, this is only part of the reform that needs to create a competitive environment and achieve a much more effective spending of the funds. We all know that in a competitive environment this can happen to the maximum extent. In order to implement the reform, we need political will from all of us and, above all, from the ruling majority. Unfortunately, we do not see the ruling majority having one in the budget that we are currently looking at. I'll take the liberty of saying we're one more year late. We're too late! We realize our responsibility and share our positive and negative experience from the highest tribune in our country, in our country. By sharing your position, we express our willingness to participate in all the discussions and debates that can be held in the National Assembly, in the committees, naturally, in an extremely broad and active dialogue with all the stakeholders, especially with the patient organisations, with the word organizations, in order to find the right solutions, to see the most positive positive experience in European and worldwide and to apply this in our country as well. I would say that we politicians owe a great deal to the healthcare system, and the greatest responsibility is borne by the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u72	Thank you, dear Associate Professor Chakarov. On behalf of the parliamentary group "United Patriarchs" there is Professor Stanislav Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am sorry that at this tense time when we are adopting a budget of the Republic, I must remind you that today's date is important to the Bulgarian nation. Since 1922 today is the Day of Attention of Bulgarians from the Western Outskirts. In 1918, when the Serbian army occupied the Western outskirts and a short time later the Neue Treaty passed these territories on to the Republic of Serbia, so far this day a decision of the National Assembly was adopted in 1922. As a day of attention of the Bulgarian nation to compatriots from the Western suburbs. In 1918 they were somewhere 186 thousand, and now there are only 72 thousand figures, that is, for a long time they were distracted among the Serbian nation. They are denationalized and the reason for this rapid process is the lack of the necessary attention from the Bulgarian side, from the Bulgarian society, from the Bulgarian state for the constant support of this inclusion to the Bulgarian ethnic rug, as some of the researchers call it. We are in debt to these people. We are in debt to all the Bulgarians, as we call them, or to the Bulgarian diaspora in all countries, which in recent years in connection with the changes that have taken place, and the great emigration, almost as many Bulgarians as they are in the country may be outside. In all neighbouring countries there is a Bulgarian diaspora, except the Republic of Turkey, where there is no such diaspora in general, but these are other historical circumstances. This is not the time or place to discuss them. The current situation is different. It's different from all this time that's been going on since 1918. We are within the European Union. Whatever criticism we have about it, it gives us huge opportunities to work with the Bulgarian diaspora in European countries and to create another policy, to create another attitude towards these Bulgarians. What can be done now? Since the UBB has been in power since the parties such as Ataka have existed, IMRO, as NFSB has had a process of increased attention to these problems. This attention, which very rarely used to flow in the big media, is now not the case. There is also a certain interest in these media. Since the United Patriarchs are in power, I would like, on behalf of their parliamentary group and personally on behalf of myself, on behalf of the leadership, to say that we will continue to work in this direction. Recently, we have had some successes, for example, in recognising the presence of Bulgarians in Albania in connection with the treaty with Macedonia. All this increases, as they say, degrees of attention to these Bulgarians. Finally, I would like to call on from this platform all parliamentary groups, all political forces in Bulgaria to support our efforts to work with Bulgarians abroad, especially in the Western suburbs and in Macedonia. Therefore, certain funds are required, of course, which the state should set aside, certain policies are required, which are not simple work, because there are different laws in different countries, but the fight is coming. My fellow Members, I call on you to support our efforts and call on you on this day to remember our compatriots, because they will not exist without our attention, and without them we are an empty place. The Bulgarians must have them! In order for Bulgarians to have them, we all have to provide certain support to them! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u74	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Today is the holy archangel Michael! Today is a holiday and the Ministry of Interior. Let's say hello to all those celebrating and wish them a lot of health and success! [[Applause.]] Are there any other speeches? Here you are, Professor Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u75	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A lot has been said about the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, and I want to bring in some figures. Everyone says there's an income of 407 million more to the budget. If we calculate that 10% reserve, and now we have 3% left, that means that the reserve was 370 million. BGN, now there is 130 million or 240 million left. The actual increase is not 407 million, but 163 million. That's the actual increase. That's not the point. [[Reply.]] Yeah, maybe it's a little 3%, but if you do the math, you'll see it's true. One more thing. From 2009 to 2017 from two billion budgets of the Health Insurance Fund is nearly 4 billion. BGN, but as a result neither the patients are satisfied nor the health workers are satisfied. Why is this happening? Perhaps one of the most serious problems is the disproportions we have placed in the budget. Why? Explain! The first disproportion is between outpatient and hospital care. It is absolutely right to remove the strategy more funds for outpatient care, in this case 10 million, and activities from hospital care and to go to outpatient care. There's no analysis, there's no indication of which activities need to come out of the hospital and go to the outpatient care. Then we will know exactly how much more money we need for the reform we are proposing and we are all unanimous and how they will be valued. Second disproportion.. Let's see the first nine months of the current year 2017. I want to show: for Dobrich for the first nine months 10 million are given. Nine hundred and ten thousand. At the same time, 44 million were given in Pazardzhik. 599 leva, or ten times that. Are patients in Dobrich less than Pazardzhik? Yeah, I know what you're gonna tell me. There's a highly specialized activity there, a new, modern hospital. Don't Dobrich patients deserve this?! Another disproportion, let's see Vidin and Vratsa. Vidin 6 million, Vratsa 24 million, four times more. Why? Because there are more private hospitals or more activities? So these disproportions are probably the wrong formula. Every Bulgarian citizen wants, has the right and needs to be treated. Next disproportion that was affected by Dr. Jaffer. Yeah, there's a difference between big cities and villages. This is a very serious disproportion. How do we provide this equal access? Where are the two main pillars we need? Since when are we talking about the health card and since when are we talking about the patient's e-file? We cannot plan and be precise and be able to protect a budget when we do not have these mechanisms and levers. Finally, I will say another disproportion. I set an example with 2017. 2 billion are foreseen. 279 thousand. 730 BGN. And they're from the insurance income. We expect only from health insurance, which are under an employment contract of 2 billion. 290 million, or ten million more. If we put the others who are under a civil contract, which are self-insuring, from the Bulgarians abroad, we reduce the revenues, and thus remains an excess of another imbalance that can be distributed without our participation. In this regard, I propose that between first and second readings we hear, first of all, and our patients. We can't just with the responsible organizations or only the experts from the National Health Insurance Fund to make the Cassata budget. The financiers shouldn't talk about doctors and hospitals draining the Health Insurance Fund. No! Doctors heal. Patients need treatment, and financiers need to plan properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u76	Thank you, dear Professor Klisarova. - What's the line? Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u77	Dear Professor Klisarova! I'm really worried to tell a professor that he's confused with the analysis of the numbers in the Cashier's budget, but that's true. [[Heckling]] In the numbers. You're right! And I'm confused. Really, 407 million. 162 thousand. There are more revenue and transfers to the Cashier's budget. As a result of the reduction of the reserve, i.e. the operating reserve, there is a difference in health insurance payments of 630 million. 60,000. and 200 BGN, i.e. there, at this level of the budget are recorded reductions in the parameters of the operational reserve. Indeed, this year we will have 407 million more in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund due to increased revenue. The other thing I want to correct you once again is the way health insurance payments are being made. We don't distribute the Cashier's money either by regions or per capita. We have a solidarity model, so they pay everyone, they use those who need it. Why in time has happened that in Pazardzhik we have a greater concentration of hospital care facilities, of highly specialised activities, is a matter of another tract. Disbalance between regions is due to different presentations of different types of medical institutions. Bulgarian citizens have guaranteed access to medical care throughout the country and they can choose where to receive medical care, regardless of their residence. These are my two remarks on your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u78	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Any other lines? I won't. Professor Klisarova, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Dr. Daritkova, thank you for the addition, but we really don't really have that 407 million. And even if they are, as I said, disproportions and redistribution are more true. I don't think we should advise a patient from Vidin to go to Pazardzhik because there are highly specialized activities, but if that is necessary... [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] No, there has to be a real health card and every patient has access everywhere. It's the right thing to do, and I'm pretty sure of it. And these disproportions largely come from there from the lack of a health card and precisely the permission to detect many hospitals with highly specialised activities and there goes much of the funds of hospital care, which for me is absolutely unfair. You made a very correct point that the principle is solidarity. You know, for the health insurance guys, there's money in the Ministry of Health, and they're every year... [[Heckling]] Yeah, in Social Services too, I totally agree. The register also pays for the uninsured health care. As in oncology, for example, I guarantee you this, auctions are conducted and chemotherapy is conducted along the paths of the National Health Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u80	Thank you, dear Professor Klisarova. To speak, the National Representative Hasan Ademov. You have the floor, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Plotchev! I just want to say a few words, and I'm starting with what the National Health Insurance Fund's budget is? Colleagues, each budget is a financial instrument for policy implementation. And since there are no policies, there is no one to defend the policies, so the discussion on the National Health Insurance Fund's budget is so frivolous. It's not an accident. I mean, one of the biggest problems is that there is no clear vision of what should happen in this sector. If the policies are clear and precise, and the policies make them the Council of Ministers, as stated in the Constitution, then the Health Fund and the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund will finance this policy, this policy, and not one to wonder which path this path, this clinical procedure or anything else. But the big problem is the deficit in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund or in the budget of the health care system as a whole. What is the reason for this? The policies in the Sector..... have said that there must be higher standards at the entrance of the system, there must be standards that must meet the different levels of competence. And because at the entrance the requirements are high, understanding financial support, and at the exit of the system there are limits, there is no way, at a high threshold of the system and a closed system on top of the limits, there is no way that this system will not generate deficits. As long as there are these things, Dr. Daritkova, there will be deficits in the system. So my request is, when these budgets are being made, not to rely solely on the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance to tell us that this system is being stolen. Where are the policies in the Health Insurance Act, in the Health Services Act, to stop these taps? We don't see politics, so we'll talk the way we've talked before. The patients will not be satisfied, the doctors will not be satisfied, and the politicians, whoever they are, who will rule. Therefore, the philosophy of the healthcare system needs to be radically changed so that adequate funding policies can be available for this system.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u82	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Dr. Ademov, I agree with you in principle that putting a deficit in the system is extremely vicious, when it comes to financing healthcare. What I cannot agree with is that I address not only you, but also all my colleagues who have a direct attitude towards healthcare, this mantra, that they must fall the standards that make it terribly difficult for them to enter the system of funding, is extremely wrong. It is extremely wrong and this is what certain players in the health care system are seeking, which will completely decompose it and an opportunity will be created, as we have also shared in a purely professional community, with several contracts to be able to make a hospital literally on the lawn outside and with these contracts to be able to fully finance this health institution. Therefore, in no case should the health system slip into the destruction of medical standards. They must be carefully reconsidered, put on a real basis, but not denied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u84	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. I can't see any other lines. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Mihailov, I never said that standards should be reduced. They need to be optimized. They need to be re-examined. What you say, the court says. You know, most of the standards have been canceled regardless of the reasons. I would like to draw attention to something that is very important from what you say. Dear Professor, the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund should not finance structures, should not finance tiles, as one colleague used to say. The budget of the Health Insurance Fund should finance activities that are carried out of the relevant quality and not finance structures as it is now. Because by financing structures, we are forced to compromise on quality. Isn't this where we consider access to the health care system? But in no case should we finance structures that have been revealed only for this, because the Minister of Health, whoever he is, has given permission to open this medical facility. Financing structures is an extremely wrong policy and I have never agreed to this. It doesn't matter what the number of hospitals is. You are sensitive to the subject of private hospitals, you are sensitive to the theme of public hospitals, we know that, but patients are the same If there are 200 hospitals and 500 hospitals, there are two million patients. The patient is the one who chooses supply and demand, the patient is the one who chooses where to treat regardless. If there are thousands of hospitals, the patients are the same, even less, because they reduce the population. So it doesn't matter how many hospitals there are. What matters is where it is, where the quality service is offered, where the money goes. That's the biggest question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u86	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, our parliamentary group has no reason to support this budget of the National Health Insurance Fund because of another refusal to reform the system. Public health expenditure as a share of gross domestic product is in the range of about 4.6%, with an average of between 7 and 11% for EU countries. It is this relatively low share of these funds that does not lead to good health or to reforms. On the contrary, even disincentives doctors to stay in Bulgaria, and we need doctors, and we need an increase in their qualifications. The reasons do not include measures for the electronization of the health insurance system and the expected effect of this, re-evaluation of the pay of the clinical pathways, the valuation of the activities of the health system, the practice of setting the limits of hospitals, and the normal work of municipal hospitals is missing. The immediate measures must be taken to prevent the destruction of municipal healthcare. In the public domain and in the discussions, it is necessary to consider that some of them should be restructuring in hospitals for curing or opening hospital beds for healing. But this should not become forceful, like your former Minister Anna-Maria Borisova, the professor who tried to restructure municipal hospitals in such places. First, the new national health card must be made, then developed the clinical path for healing and its actual valuation and then resorted to restructuring of these hospitals.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u88	Thirty seconds you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u89	Finally, the main conclusion for me is: we continue as we did. And what kind of healthcare reform are we talking about when the minister's chair is empty? Thank you for your attention. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. Are there any lines? I won't. To speak, the public representative Daniela Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u91	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the topic Today I would like to return to the specific budget, the specific bill, namely the Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018, because there is no way in one discussion to cover all the problems in the sector. I admit that they have accumulated over time and are looking for their solution, only that the Casa Budget Act allows us to ensure for the next year a stable financial framework and, hence, everyone can now give their constructive proposal and realise the intentions of improving the sector. Does this budget allow it? Absolutely, yes! We have 407 million more. This enables payments in primary outpatient aid to increase by 7 million. 200,000. lv.; payments for out-of-hospital medical care - the so-called "governments" increased by almost 11 million. lv.; for dental aid more than 10 million lv. We have more funds for medical-diagnostic activity, i.e. for various types of research with 2 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. The biggest increases are, of course, in the sectors that mark the largest deficits each year, namely: in hospital aid we have 367 million. lv. More than 200 million. lv. more for medicinal products. I believe that these are parameters that allow real changes to be made and all opinions and opinions expressed here are rather dictated by political bias. It is logical for the opposition to really disagree, but you cannot disagree with the numbers and with the figures that allow the reform next year to happen in one sector or another. It has also been outlined very well that consensus is important, but consensus must be really sought in terms of constructive proposals. In this regard, I would like to say that we have always been prepared to accept what the opposition is proposing as constructive, legislative or regulatory proposals to the National Assembly. I am pleased that our program is often quoted, however, in which the points are shifted by the speakers. The first thing we want to realize in order to obtain a sector that is transparent and effectively managed is precisely the creation of a single national health information system, because it will allow it to become clear, on the one hand, what are the possibilities with an 8% health contribution to provide a certain package of medical activities and hence decide what the mechanism of demonopolization will be. Many times I have heard applications from this tribune and in the media of opposition colleagues that they are ready with a bill on demonopolision. I haven't seen this bill. If they present it, we will discuss it and we will really look for the necessary solutions, but I admit that in time we have been extremely delayed with the information system, which will allow order to be introduced into the health system and to be extremely correct both in the parameters and budgets we offer and in the effective spending of the funds. The topics for the evaluation of clinical pathways, for the individual clinical pathways, for the financing of municipal hospitals must be important, but they are, first of all, not subject to this discussion, not subject to the commitments of the National Assembly, because very clearly in the laws it is written who has what commitment. The prices of clinical pathways are determined by negotiating between the National Health Insurance Fund and the Medical Union. In addition, the parameters and content of the clinical pathways are re-negotiated and medical specialists can be pronounced there. This should by no means be a cause for political intervention, because here the expertise of the specialists is extremely important. Municipal hospitals are financed and comply with medical standards like all other hospitals. We have heard the Casa Supervisory Board's application that with these increased funds for hospital care, clinical pathways will be revalued, and the look will be directed and focused precisely on the lowest prices, on the paths that have remained somewhat neglected in time. This may be a temporary solution, however, what we should be looking for as a long-term solution is really changing the model of hospital care pay. Here already the political consensus will be extremely necessary because the fact is that we do not have a health minister precisely because the system is saturated with many interests and if we do not have a single opinion all politicians and on at least one project, on one topic we do not show extremely monolithal and equal action, then there is no way to change the sector of health and health, so as to be in the interests of the Bulgarian citizens and to achieve such indicators of the system that will really show better health to the Bulgarian nation because these are the objective criteria on which we appreciate a health system. I trust that the ruling majority, the reasonable MPs will support a budget that is higher for next year and within the limits of the opportunities of the MPs. Under no circumstances can I agree that we are just one rubber stamp, as was stated by another MP. We will have the opportunity, even by these texts, to rule, because we have adopted the opinion of the representatives of outpatient medical care that the funds there should be increased further. We from the parliamentary group of GERB will look for such opportunities. I will also allow myself to disagree with other texts of the Budget Act and the National Health Insurance Fund. As a MP from Smolyan region, I know that the patients and citizens of the district look forward to the discovery of invasive cardiology at Smolyan District Hospital. That should be next year.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u92	Is that on the budget?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u93	The Ministry of Health financed this project by 1 million. lv. and if it is accepted in this form of text, I will have to explain to my constituents why they have to travel 100 kilometers again to get emergency medical attention on issues that are truly lifesaving. I therefore insist that this text be bound by the texts in force on the national health card. I trust that the team of the Ministry of Health will do everything possible for the timely adoption of such a health card in order to be able not to allow new activities where we have over-representing them and where we have a lack or deficit to guarantee the life and health of Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u94	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. - What's the line? There are no lines. Statements? I won't either. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the first vote a Draft Budget Bill for the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018, No 702-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. Please vote. They voted 213 MPs: 125, against 88, no abstentions. The bill was passed in the first vote. [[Applause from GERB.]] Thank you. Negative vote please, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take note of the procedure of a negative vote to express my disagreement with the proposed budget for the National Health Insurance Fund. You are talking about reforming and launching such a reform, and you are proposing a budget in which no reform is at stake. Your representative of GERB parliamentary group Dr. Daritkova spoke about interests in health care, interests that led to the resignation of the health minister. You serve those interests! With this budget you're offering for next year, you're proving it. You are trying to insinuate that consolidation is needed in order to have better health care, but you are not hearing any reasonable argument put forward by qualified experts that you do not accept because they are from the opposition. Finally, I will ask you: where is the Minister of Health who has to protect these numbers in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund? Isn't he the foundation on which you make the offer? Who is he? Who will implement your policies, which lead to worse health care, to refuse healthcare for entire regions in the country? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u96	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Second negative vote. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u97	Madam President, would you make a remark to your colleagues to behave?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u98	Please be quiet in the hall. Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against it for two reasons and will repeat it in each of the following budgets. For the first time, we are looking at a budget without the opinion of an importer. Do you remember having an importer's opinion on this budget? I won't! Because the importer is gone! Because the importer, perhaps, as the Ministry of Finance, which under the Constitution should be the one who imports the budgets, has one thing that he said and which is true, and Mr. Goranov said it publicly in the media: "In healthcare is being stolen." This budget, which you have adopted now, only helps the theft go further, there are no reforms here, there are no policies here, there is some money that is being given out so that it can be absorbed so that healthcare can be true, Dr. Daritkova has already talked about health care, but to remain a service with profit for certain companies. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u100	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. We move to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF LAW PROJECT FOR THE BUDGET OF STATE PUBLIC SECURITY FOR 2018, No 702-01-39. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce us, Mrs. Angelova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u101	Dear Madam President, before I read the report, I ask for permission in the hall of: Deputy Minister Lazar Lazarov of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy; Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u102	Dear Members of Parliament, we are voting for admission in this House. Vote 127 MPs: 108, against 4, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Continue with the report, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u103	Dear Madam President, colleagues: ♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Social Security Budget for 2018, No 702-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At a meeting held on 2 November 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2018, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by: Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance; Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy; the representatives of the National Insurance Institute, Ivaylo Ivanov, Governor, Vesela Karaivanova, Deputy Governor, Penka Taneva, Actuary, and Snezhana Malakova, Director of the Legal Directorate; representatives of trade unions and employers' organizations. The bill was presented by the governor of the National Insurance Institute Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov. He pointed out that the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2018 is based on the government's three-year budget forecast for 2018 - 2020 and laid down the following policies: 1. by revenue: - The amount of the social contribution to the Fund is increased by one percentage point..19.8 percent for those born before 1 January 1960, at the ratio.11.02 at the expense of the employer and 8.78 at the expense of the worker, and 14.8 per cent for the persons born after 31 December 1959, respectively with a ratio of 8,22/6,58. - The amount of the contribution to the Fund shall be reserved for the persons under art. 60.8 per cent for those born before 1 January 1960 and 55.8 per cent for those born after 31 December 1959. - No change of employer-worker ratios for other insurance risks is envisaged and they remain 60 to 40 percent respectively. For 2018, their dimensions are as follows: - Fund - "Fund "Unemployment." " 1,0 per cent; - Employment accident and occupational disease Fund.................................................... from 0.4 to 1.1 per cent on behalf of the employer. - No minimum insurance thresholds have been agreed for 2018. With an administrative increase of 3.9 percent and the planned increase of the minimum wage by 10.9 percent, the average increase of the IOP in 2018 was about 6.8 percent. - The minimum wage of 460 BGN is increased. BGN 510. - Minimum monthly insurance income of self-insuring persons of BGN 510 is determined.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - The minimum insurance income for farmers and tobacco producers is increased from 300 BGN. £480.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - The amount of maximum insurance income for all insured persons is preserved.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - For 2018 no contributions are made to the Guaranteed claims of the employees. The total amount of revenue and transfers for 2018 is available at 11 067.3 million. BGN, which is 10.4 per cent of GDP. The total amount with the largest relative share is the income from insurance contributions, which is estimated at 6 517.7 million. lv. And it's 6.1 percent of GDP. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which is more than 17.4 million. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the financial year 2017 and transfers from the State budget to the IPO budget of 4 495.1 million. BGN, or less by 228,5 million. lv. of their amount for 2017. Of the total amount of 4,495.1 million BGN 308,8 million lv. is a transfer for the payment of pensions and supplements, which are at the expense of the state budget and 4 186.3 million. lv. is an additional transfer from the state budget to cover the lack of funds in the state social security budget for 2018. The bill sets out the following expenditure policies: - Increasing the required age and retirement insurance for all categories of work; - From 1 January 2018, the percentage for each year of insurance service in the pension formula shall be increased from 1,126 to 1,169 by a percentage determined by the rule of art. 100 of the Social Security Code; - From 1 July 2018 employment pensions awarded until 31 December of the previous year shall not be updated under art. CSR 100 and shall be revalued with the new rate for each year of the insurance service. - The minimum amount of pension for retirement and age and social pension for old age is increased from 1 July 2018 by 3.8 percent; - The maximum amount of one or more pensions received is maintained at 35 per cent of the maximum insurance income.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - The minimum daily amount of unemployment allowance of BGN 7.20 is increased. £9. and a daily maximum size is set at 74,29 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - The requirements for the right to unemployment benefit shall be changed......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - The requirements for the duration of the insurance service during which the persons were insured for unemployment for the period after 31 December 2001 are changed when the MP is paid; - The period from which short-term benefits are calculated in case of temporary inability to work for 18 calendar months in case of unemployment, and pregnancy and childbirth is kept for 24 calendar months; - The system of payment of cash benefits for temporary incapacity shall be maintained, with an average daily gross remuneration of 70 per cent of the insurance provider being paid for the first three working days, and a cash compensation from the DEA shall be paid on the 4th day of non-employment; - The possibility of obtaining compensation for temporary incapacity after termination of the relationship; - The period of payment of the monetary benefit for pregnancy and birth of 410 days shall be maintained; - The amount of compensation for raising a young child from one to two years of age is increased from 340 to 380 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - In 2018, the possibility introduced in 2017 for mothers (the adoptive parents) who have the right to take leave during pregnancy and childbirth until one year of age, but do not use it, but return to work, to receive compensation from the DEA in the amount of 50 per cent of their compensation for pregnancy and childbirth. - The amount of one-off aid in the death of an insured person is preserved. - A maximum amount of guaranteed claims is set for 1300 BGN. The total amount of expenditure and transfers for 2018 is 11 067.3 million. lv. and this amount is greater by 691.7 million. lv. From 2017 The most relative share is the cost of pensions of 9 455.9 million. BGN, which amounts to 85.4 per cent of all expenditure in the state social security. The relative share of the cost of pensions from gross domestic product is 8.9 per cent, with the provision for pensions of 519.6 million. lv. more than their size in the DEA budget for This Decision shall The average pension amount of one pensioner in 2018 is expected to reach 362,97 BGN, with a nominal increase of 5.5 percent at an expected average amount for 2017. BGN 4290 A positive real pension growth of 4.1 per cent is expected in 2018 with projected annual average harmonised inflation rate of 1.4 per cent for 2018. The cost allocation for the main short-term CSR benefits groups is as follows: - temporary disability benefits due to a general illness, the care of a sick family member and quarantine and non-laborable persons. BGN, which is 103.4 per cent compared to the expected implementation for 2017; compensations for 17 504.9 thousand days are planned for the average daily compensation of BGN 29.42.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - compensations for accidents and occupational sickness - 10.5 million BGN, which is 122.1 percent compared to the expected implementation for 2017; compensations are planned for 279.9 thousand days for temporary incapacity due to occupational accident and occupational disease in the case of average daily compensation of 37.67 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - benefits for pregnancy and childbirth - 386,9 million BGN, which is 107.3 per cent compared to the expected implementation for 2017; compensations are planned for 13 863.7 thousand days for temporary incapacity due to pregnancy and childbirth with an average daily compensation of 27.91 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - benefits for raising a young child up to two years of age and for adopting a child from 2 to 5 years of age BGN, which is 105.3 percent compared to the expected implementation for 2017, planned benefits for raising a young child are for 8 715.5 thousand days with average daily compensation of 18,10 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - unemployment benefits for EUR 396.4 million. BGN, which is 101.1 percent compared to the expected implementation for 2017, planned benefits are for 76 552 entitled persons with a monthly average amount of compensation 431,48 BGN. - financing of the prevention and rehabilitation activities - 20.1 million lv. The planned costs for the operation of the social security facility were 113.9 million. lv. The relative share of the costs of the activity compared to all costs of the ABDO 2018 is 1.03 per cent. The cost of staff is 62.7 million. lv. and developed in the average number of employees by employment and service. The cost of administrative maintenance is 44,5 million. BGN, the increase is due to the expenses included in the maintenance for the payment of the service provided by the Bulgarian Post Office for payment of pensions. For 2018, the project of capital expenditure funds is made on the basis of the necessary actions to manage, manage and update the material base, with the funds being maintained at the level of 2017. In the consolidated budget of the state social security for 2018 the planned funds for the defense and mobilization preparation, maintenance of stocks and capacities and the Preventive activity for reducing the harmful consequences of crises, disasters and accidents are in the amount of 134 100 BGN. and are intended as follows: - to finance salaries and salaries of staff and insurance contributions for them, maintenance of the activity, purchase of individual remedies and on-going repairs in the amount of 94 100 BGN. - for financial provision of resources for preventive events and the organization of initial rescue, rehabilitation and other urgent events in the event of disasters, accidents and accidents affecting the Central Management and territorial units of NSI BGN 40 000. The consolidated budget of the State Social Security for 2018 is expected to end with a deficit of 4, 186,3 million. lv. In order to balance the draft budget at zero, this deficit should be financed by the State budget in the form of an additional transfer to cover the lack of funds. According to the budget of the individual funds for 2018 the results are as follows: - Fund "Pensions" "Lack of 3 921,4 million." lv. - Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 - Fund of Pensions, non-employment-related... a shortage of 0,01 million. lv. - Trudy accident and occupational disease fund - Residue of 132,4 million lv. - General disease and disability fund lv. - "Unemployment" fund "Lack of 124,8 million." lv. - A budget of the NSI - a remainder of 4,100,6 million. lv. The total result of the Funds and the NSI budget shall be balanced to zero. The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft are proposed amendments and additions to Part One of the Public Procurement Code relating to the implementation of the budget of the State Social Security, as well as certain amendments relating to the clarification of provisions on the rights of insured persons and editorial changes. A discussion was held on the bill in which the MPs and guests involved in the meeting expressed their views. People's representative Georgi Gokov said that the representatives of the Bulgarian BSP will not support the proposed bill by pointing out the following reasons. Firstly, it lacks a vision to solve fundamental problems that stand before our society. Secondly, it does not identify priorities and objectives. In revenue policy, there is no serious step towards increasing revenue, which is necessary to ensure the insurance rights of insured persons and, to a greater extent, to ensure the balance of insurance funds. People's representative Hasan Ademov from GG of DPS expressed disagreement with the proposed increase of minimum insurance income for farmers from 300 to 480 BGN. It significantly exceeds the rate of growth of social and health insurance contributions compared to the growth of what they receive from the production. There should be an increase, but it should not be so large. The Chairman of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria Mr. Vasil Velev said that the representative employers' organizations do not support the budget of state social security for the following reasons: firstly, the wage policies laid down do not stimulate the creative highly qualified and highly productive work, and in some cases they damage people and encourage equalisation, including due to excessive administrative intervention in the labour market, related to minimum wage, minimal insurance income and administratively determined classes. Secondly, the three days of hospital, which remain at the expense of employers and, more precisely, at the expense of decent people in the working group, who pay healthy people with hospital leaves. Thirdly, there are no reforms and changes at stake to limit disability fraud. The representative of the Union of Pensioners in Bulgaria Mr. Georgi Rusanov said it is necessary to bet a recalculation of pensions for insurance service and age in 2018 with pension insurance income from 2014. Mr. Valeri Apostolov, representative of KT, expressed his support in principle for the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2018, focusing on three aspects. First, to remove the starting fee that private pension funds charge to insured persons because there is no service behind this fee. Second, the investment fee is to be charged only on the result of the investments and not on the full value of the assets of the insured persons. Thirdly, the management and members of the management bodies of pension insurance companies should declare their property to the Court of Auditors, as they manage only public resources and there is no private funds. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held and the following results were received:...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Law on the Budget of State Social Security for 2018, No 702-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u105	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I propose that today's National Assembly meeting be extended by continuing to the reading of the reports on this point. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u106	Is there a reverse offer? No. We proceed to the vote on the procedural proposal made. We are voting for an extension of the time of today's sitting until we read the reports on this. 4. Vote 110 MPs: 93 against 8, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Next procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u107	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedure for extending the time limits between the first and second reading of the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land, No 753-07-14, on the maximum term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u108	We also vote on this procedural proposal to extend the deadline. They voted 126 MPs: 124, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We continue with a report by the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u109	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2018, No 702-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at an extraordinary meeting held on 2 November 2017, together with the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Health Committee, examined and discussed the Draft Budget Bill of State Social Security for 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov and Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, Manager and Governor of the National Insurance Institute, experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ministry of Finance, the Chairman of the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Bulgaria Prof. Boris Grozdanov, representatives of employers', trade union and pensioners' organizations. The bill was presented by the governor of the National Insurance Institute Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov. The draft budget of the State Social Security for 2018, is based on the government's three-year budget forecast for 2018 and has been developed according to the budget guidelines of the Ministry of Finance for drawing up the budgets for 2018. The draft Law on the Budget of the IPO lays down the following revenue policies: - the amount of the contribution to the Fund is increased by one percentage point; - the amount of the contribution to the Fund shall be maintained for the persons under art. 69 (a.k.a. - no change of employer-worker ratios for other insurance risks is envisaged; - the proposed administrative increase in minimum insurance thresholds for 2018 by 3.9 per cent and with the planned increase in minimum wage by 10.9 per cent, the average increase in minimum insurance thresholds in 2018 is about 6.8 per cent; - the minimum wage of 460 BGN is increased. BGN 510.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - a minimum monthly insurance income of 510 BGN is fixed for self-insuring persons.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the minimum insurance income for farmers and tobacco producers is increased from BGN 300. £480.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - retain the amount of maximum insurance income for all insured persons - BGN 2 600. The project sets out the following expenditure policies: - increasing the required age and retirement insurance for all categories of work; - From 1 January 2018, the percentage for each year of insurance service in the pension formula shall be increased from 1,126 to 1,169 by a percentage determined by the rule of art. 100 of the Social Security Code "3.8 per cent; - the minimum amount of pension for retirement and age and social pension for old age shall be increased from 1 July 2018 by 3.8 per cent (Art. 100 of the Social Security Code; - the maximum amount of one or more pensions received shall be maintained at 35 percent of the maximum social security income.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the minimum daily amount of unemployment allowance of BGN 7.20 is increased. £9. and a daily maximum size is set at 74,29 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the requirements for the right to unemployment benefit shall be amended......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - the requirements for the duration of the insurance service during which the persons were insured for unemployment for the period after 31 December 2001, in the event of payment of monetary unemployment benefit; - the possibility of obtaining compensation for temporary incapacity after termination of the relationship; - increase the amount of compensation for raising a young child from one to two years of age from 340 BGN. At 380 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - a maximum amount of guaranteed claims is fixed - 1 300 BGN. The development of the draft consolidated budget of the State Social Security for Revenue and Expenditure 2018 is also based on the expected implementation of the budget of the State Social Security for 2017 on a report as of August. In the revenue section, 6 billion 12 million are expected to occur. BGN, which is 360 million. lv. Or 6.4 per cent more than planned. The expected costs amount to 10 billion. The Commission $700,000. BGN, which is 122 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. or 1.2 percent more than planned. The expected transfers for 2017 amounted to 4 billion. The Commission Six hundred thousand. BGN, which is 0.4 million. lv. more transfers received. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the 900,000. lv. As a result of the reporting of all these policies - of macroeconomic and socio-economic assumptions, the consolidated budget of the State Social Security for 2018 contains revenue and transfers of a total of 11 billion 67 million 300 thousand. BGN, including transfers received from the central state budget 4 billion 495 million 100 thousand. lv. (for pensions, supplements and benefits financed by the State budget.. 308 million 800 thousand. lv. and to cover the funding gap of 4 billion 186 million 300 thousand. lv.). The transfer to cover the lack of funds is by 212 million 200 thousand. lv. lower than planned for 2017. The planned revenue from insurance contributions for 2018 is 902 million 900 thousand. lv. or by 16,1 per cent more than those laid down in the State Social Security Budget Act for 2017. The pensions continue to be the largest expenditure in the budget of the DEA (85.44 per cent of the total expenditure), providing for their amount for 2018 to amount to 9 billion. 455 million. 900,000. lv. The financial estimates for pensions for 2018 are based on the parameters laid down in the government's medium-term fiscal framework of 27 September 2017, the expected implementation of the pension costs on the basis of the Retirement for August 2017 and the policies regarding the determination of pensions in 2018. In planning the pension funds in the draft budget of the DCI for 2018 the increase of the minimum pension for retirement and age in 2017, the change in the conditions for the acquisition of pension rights and an increase in the burden of one year of insurance service (from 1,126 to 1,169) was taken into account. The above parameters and pensions policies have an impact on the number of pensioners and the amount of pensions that determine the cost of pensions for 2018. The average number of pensioners for 2018 is expected to decrease to around 2 million 170.6 thousand. Souls. The lower number of pensioners is determined by the smooth increase in retirement age and internship for all categories of work. The average pension amount of a pensioner in 2018 is set to reach 362,97 BGN. the nominal increase is 5.5 percent for the expected average size for 2017. BGN 4290 A positive real pension growth of 4.1 per cent is expected in 2018 with projected annual average harmonised inflation rate of 1.4 per cent for 2018. The gross income substitution rate for 2018 is expected to be 41,6% and the net coefficient is expected to be 53,6%. The cost of pensions in 2018 is expected to be around 9.0 per cent of gross domestic product. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. The Commission therefore concludes The most relative share is the cost of the parentage of 545 million. 200,000. lv. (36.6 per cent) followed by the cost of monetary benefits for temporary incapacity due to a general illness, watching a sick family member and quarantine and non-laborating 900,000. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 400,000. lv. (26.6 percent). The planned amount for financing the prevention and rehabilitation activities is 20 million. $100,000. lv. The planned costs for the operation of the Social Security are 113 million. 900,000. lv. The relative share of the costs of the activity, compared to all expenditure of the Consolidated Budget for 2018, is 1.03 per cent. Staff costs are 62 million. $700,000. lv. and developed in the average number of employees per employee (989) and service (2478). The cost of administrative maintenance is 44 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. For 2018, the project of capital expenditure funds is made on the basis of the necessary actions to manage, manage and update the material base, with the funds being maintained at the level of 2017. The consolidated budget of state social security for 2018 is expected to end with a shortage of 4 billion. 186 million 300,000. lv. In order to balance the draft budget at zero, this deficit should be financed by the State budget in the form of an additional transfer to cover the lack of funds. According to the budget of the individual funds for 2018 the results are as follows: - Fund "Pensions" a shortage of 3 billion. The Commission 400,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • - Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning Six hundred thousand. lv.• • • • • • - A non-employment-related pension fund. A shortage of 100 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - "Employment accident and occupational disease" Fund "Employment of 132 million." 400,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • - General disease and disability fund. 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • - "Unemployment" Fund "A shortage of 124 million." $800,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • - A budget of the NSI - a remainder of 4 billion. 100 million 600,000. lv. The total result of the funds and the National Insurance Budget shall be balanced to zero. § 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft are proposed amendments and additions to Part One of the Social Security Code relating to the implementation of the budget of the State Social Security, as well as certain amendments relating to the clarification of provisions on the rights of insured persons and editorial changes. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy received the opinions of the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. In the opinion of the CST it is pointed out that the revenue policy of state social security in the draft budget for 2018, contains positive but timid steps towards improvement of revenue. The CST does not find it justified most of the spending policies proposed in the draft budget. In general, they refrain from supporting the entire draft budget. The opinion of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry makes proposals for a change of the policies and measures and states that the bill is not supported. During the meeting were presented the opinions of KT "Supportpa", Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Industrial Association. The union representatives generally support the Bill. Representatives of employers' organisations said they did not find sufficient grounds to support the budget of state social security. After the presentation of the bill, a discussion took place, which was attended by the MPs Georgi Gokov and Hasan Ademov. Along with the positive findings, shortcomings of the draft budget relating to the fact that there is no vision in it have not been found the balance between the various policies. There are no reforms regarding disability pensions, no account is taken of imbalances in the economy, most of the policies to be implemented are stalled, the update of pensions is unfair, palliative measures are proposed, except for one, all social funds that cover insurance risks are debalanced. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the vote held with results: for 11, against 7, abstention 1, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to support the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2018, No 702-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u110	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Will we hear an opinion, position and motives of an importer? No. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Chairman! I'd say dear Minister, but he's gone! Honourable MPs, the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) will not support the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2018, because it does not change the injustice in the Bulgarian world. We do not support the budget because there is no way to support something that is no different from the previous seven of the same authors. You can't do the same thing, you can't expect different improved results. We will not support it because there is not even a sign of a change in the goal that the government of GERB has followed for years, to absoluteise the stability of the financial systems, in the case of state social security, and to call it "business progress" and security this maintaining the macroeconomic and financial stability of the country, and all of this being at the expense of the people who are the most valuable strategic resource of the state and are a major factor for our national socio-economic stability. We will not support this budget, because it lacks vision and willpower to solve major problems that are facing our society's demographic crisis, economic stagnation, poverty, inequalities, corruption, low incomes. It does not identify priorities and objectives, but represents a chaotic system of pallets, acting for themselves administrative measures in the social sphere. We do not support this budget because, after years of proposing a neoliberal model of severe budget cuts, the state abdicates from its obligation to support individual sectors and fairly redistribute resources. Today, there is an attempt to mimic social engagement by presenting all three budgets, both state and state social security, and health, as social. This is a false social commitment and there is no way not to ask a question from this tribune: what is the social status of this budget, since for social activities, provision, support and care, a total of about 12.3% of gross domestic product is planned, provided that last year were 13.3%? What is social about it when, with small exceptions, expressing themselves in a minor and partial increase, social payments remain frozen? This is the eighth budget of GERB, which for the eighth year leads nowhere. It leads to stagnation and administrative spending of millions that sink into the unreformed social system and from which the individual reaches a penny. A budget of a desperate social infrastructure, a budget that guarantees no one, let alone insurance rights, a budget meaningless, which does not take into account the development and dynamics of socio-economic relations and offers no real change, but stagnation and social mimicry. Does anyone in this budget see any long-term vision of leading such economic and social policy as Bulgaria needs to solve problems, investments, high employment, quality jobs, raising incomes? Is there a vision to conduct such a demographic policy to overcome negative trends? Does it offer a solution and policies to ensure adequate, educational training that is a prerequisite for high-quality occupations, or policies for optimising and greater justice in the distribution of social aids to support households, children, disabled people, single mothers, elderly people? The answer is a hundred times No!................ no!............ no!............. I would like to draw attention to some parameters from the revenue section of the government social security budget. In general, state social security revenue policy in the 2018 budget project does not have a major step towards increasing it, which is necessary to ensure adequate social security rights of insured persons and to ensure the balance of fund insurers to a greater extent. The most important parameters of the revenue are frozen and there is no hint of a more significant change in the direction of increase. It is about minimum insurance thresholds for different economic activities, maximum social security income, social security contributions, in general and so on. Although revenue increases are envisaged by 560 million. BGN, compared to the achieved surplus of 920 million. lv. to the planned for 2017, I claim that once again the revenue of the State social security budget has been underestimated. This has become a permanent practice and a trend in budgeting, and every year there is a serious over-performance of the order of 5.6%, which is by no means due to some over-collection of insurance, but to a deliberate understatement of revenue. There are two options: either deliberate understatement of the revenue, or incompetent planning. The maximum social security income shall be frozen at the level of 2015. 2600 lv. Thus, in addition to reducing the ratio between the maximum social security income and the minimum social security income, it remains the principle of the government of GERB, no matter who they are in coalition with, to benefit high income groups under tax liabilities at the expense of those with low incomes. It is a foreign principle that the richer must bear a greater security burden. This is also consistent and persistent, as in the case of unwillingness to introduce progressive income taxation. This is an incorrect policy, even because the revenues in the state social security and in the health system are limited. I am sure that sooner or later it will be necessary to increase the maximum social security income, as is the case with the minimum social security income and the minimum wage, and this will have to happen with a serious leap and thus create tension in society. Why does the maximum insurance income not become BGN 3300 in 2018, as is our proposal? This will generate gross and additional revenue of the order of 206 million and a half compared to what was set out in the draft budget. I'm moving on to revenue. The contribution to the Fund is reimbursed by 1%, i.e. the amount of the contribution by 1% is increased from 18.8% to 19.8%. This is good because the increase in social security contributions is one of the factors that can lead to an increase in income in the pension system and will generate an income of around 190 million in this case. lv. additionally. Just to remind you that this level should have been reached at the beginning of 2017, provided that it was not a lobbyist change in the Social Security Code a year ago in favour of business. Here I will allow myself to express my personal opinion that the government should take responsibility for a more substantial increase in social security contributions, because only in such an approach can the state social security system play a productive role and become an instrument for the gradual eradication of poverty in Bulgaria. The contributions to all other funds of state social security remain in the current size and this leads to imbalance and deepening of the deficits in them. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no provision for an increase in the contributions to the Unemployment Fund and it has long been in serious deficit. The amount of this contribution has not been changed since 2007 and this has led to the fact that its revenues at the Fund now cover only two thirds of the costs of unemployment benefit. Its 1% increase, as we propose, will bring more revenue to the Fund and instead of the deficit being covered by a subsidy from the state budget, i.e. by taxes, the cost of compensation for the unemployed will be covered by social security contributions, because that is the idea of the social security fund, isn't it? And the question arises: why is it scheduled for another year, I think it has become nine, freezing the level zero contribution to the Fund It comes to a situation that for nine years has been guaranteed and paid claims to workers and employees, even for employers who have not made any contributions to the Fund. Not to mention that they are passionately guarded by changing the rules for the payment of claims, which makes it difficult to access the money in the Fund, with a single goal that there should be sufficient funds in the Fund so that there is no motive to repay the contributions to it. The parliamentary committees appointed or elected also do not help to resolve the problems of unpaid salaries. For spending policies, criticism is significantly more than that of revenue. The general budget of state social security offers nothing new, such as policies and views and, most importantly, does not contribute in any way to solving problems in the field of living and incomes to reduce poverty and deepening inequalities. For another year in the Bill on the Budget of State Social Security not only does it not offer, but there is no thought of a decision on the adequacy of social payments, as are the expectations of society. The Bulgarians expect not only an increase in their incomes, but a more serious increase in both the indexing of pensions and the amounts of social payments, one-off assistance in pregnancy, single birth aid, monthly child support, and the minimum daily amount of unemployment benefit and so on, of all other social payments. For another year, the size of the majority is frozen, not to tell all social payments with some exceptions. Policies regarding the amount of pensions for 2018 do not lead to the expected adequacy and their amounts are below any criticism. After GERB and the majority in the previous National Assembly carried out an anti-social, anti-human, called by them a pension reform, which we should all be ashamed of, promises to increase pensions and reduce deficits in the budget of state social security and financial stabilisation of funds did not take place. Despite populism and slogans, there is no political will to seriously raise pensions. In 2018, there will be no increase in the existing pensions, other than the current update. The coefficient for each year of insurance service in the pension formula will increase from 1,126% to 1,169% weight, i.e. 0.043 per cent, which does not result in a significant increase in the amount of pensions expected in society. From the left, we continue to argue that these symbolic 3.8% do not solve the problem of increasing differences between old and new pensions, and this creates injustice and conflict between generations [[Radio.]] Since you do not accept our proposals to reclaim all pensions, at least update them with a percentage significantly higher than the levels obtained under the so-called Swiss rule.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u112	The excitement in this room is inexplicable. Quiet, please, colleagues! Go ahead, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u113	Our proposal is that, with this budget, a coefficient of 1.2% should be applied for each year internship. Only about 230 million will be needed. lv. Increasing age and internship to acquire the right to a pension, maintaining low levels of pension size, uncertainty about the yield of additional insurance, unrecognized actions such as increasing only the minimum pensions increase skepticism and distrust in the system and lead to demitivation and denial of insurance. It is inconclusive for people that a 3.8% increase in pensions compensates for inflation and will be enough to live at least as they lived in 2017, and that is nearly 2 million. 200,000. Bulgarians. Everyone in this country must be aware that it is not possible with these 200 monthly, receiving a million and a half Bulgarian pensioners, buying food and medicine and living normally. The average amount of the pension is expected to reach 362,97 BGN, with an estimated average amount of 4390 BGN. for 2017 an increase of 19 BGN is funny, compared to some other salary increases in political offices. It is impressive that since 2013 there has been a tendency to reduce the real growth of pensions, because the same is the rate of substitution of incomes and gross and net. The average pension in Bulgaria will again be very close to the poverty line. Is this approach of updating pensions fair? Definitely not! The maximum amount of pensions received at the level of BGN 910 is frozen, i.e. the update that takes place for all does not apply to the maximum pension. This ceiling is very low for the state, the European is low, it is even lower than the minimum pension in Greece. This is becoming unacceptable and unbearable. Our proposal is that this budget will start a smooth solution of this problem in combination with increasing the maximum insurance income: maximum insurance income 3300 BGN, and the ceiling of 1155 BGN. Otherwise, serious tensions are created. The minimum daily amount of unemployment allowance of BGN 7.20 is also increased. £9. and a daily maximum of BGN 74,29 is fixed. After the amount of this compensation is fixed at a minimum wage of 240 BGN. and has not changed 7-8 years, now follows a symbolic increase of BGN 7.20. At BGN 9,00. and the compensation will be about 190 leva per month. This is 37.3% of the future minimum wage of BGN 510 and if it impresses the honourable Members, it is far below the level of official poverty line even for 2017, that is 60% of BGN 314. Our proposal is for this compensation to have a more significant increase and will be fair after we have legally determined the upper limit of the compensation of 60% of the average social income of the person to determine the lower limit of 60% of the minimum wage or minimum social income, i.e. BGN 14.60/day. Otherwise, the motivation for the need to provide for such low benefits, which are below the poverty line, is depreciated. It's going to take about 35 million here. lv. for the whole year. The limit determining a daily maximum of 74 BGN. And 29th century, I'm just not gonna comment on it. It's in your ideas of cost reduction. This argument also changes the requirements for access to unemployment benefits, more insurance service, and also the amount of the period of receipt, and it is restrictive. 63 million is saved, but at the expense of people's social security rights and at the expense of trust in the system. The compensation for raising a young child from 1 to 2 years from 340 to 380 BGN is increased. What huge increase of 40 leva?! Yet it is for bragging because this is the first time in the management of GERB to thaw some social payment. However, can this increase lead to satisfaction among young families who have decided to raise children and what will be the effect on the demographic crisis is a rhetorical issue. A principle that does not change with this budget remains the long periods that are taken as a basis for determining short-term benefits.. 18 months in the case of incapacity and 24 months in the case of pregnancy and childbirth and unemployment. Going back two years in determining compensation, which should replace the income of the insured at the time of the insurance event, is cynicism! With the motive to prevent losses, it is not clear what exactly is being abused, restricts and violates social security rights. In this respect, I will also mention the withdrawal of the right to use monetary compensation for temporary disability when it occurred within 30 days of the termination of the insurance. To conclude, it is our job as an opposition to criticize the weak points in the government's budget, to present our alternative. We have made commitments to those who supported us in the last elections, and they are almost one million Bulgarians and we are obliged to keep them. You are the majority of GERB and the United Patriarchs. It is your business whether you will comply with this alternative or once again pass our proposals arrogantly and unpardonably. I know that the majority will now accept the budget in this form. This is your budget, these are your views as governors, these are your decisions. But in the second vote, when our alternative is tabled as concrete proposals, listen to the voice of reason and support the good proposals. Thank you for listening. I am waiting for a constructive approach because the pension insurance problems of the Bulgarians are many and wait not palliative, but real solutions for themselves. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u114	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You have exceeded even the Commission's report, this is definitely a success. Are there any lines, honourable MPs? There aren't any. A statement has been requested... Dr. Ademov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Insurance Institute, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mrs. Ivanov, Mrs. Malakova! The draft budget of state social security for 2018 is another false news for pensioners and insured persons in Bulgaria. Why am I saying this? I'll explain why. I say this because the expectations in this budget of the first budget of the ruling coalition had to find a place in the election platforms of the two political parties promises. Unfortunately, nothing like this is happening in this budget, and further in my speech I will dwell on some of these things. Next, the Social Security, Assistance and Care function in the State Social Security Budget for 2018 was allocated 12.4% of gross domestic product, and in 2017 were 13.3%. This is a serious sign that the funds for the State Social Security Budget, including for the Social Security, Assistance and Care function, although nominally increased, on a comparable basis to the gross domestic product are reduced. Next, instead of extending the rights of insured persons, this draft budget takes away and limits rights. I'll tell you just two examples. What rights have been revoked? The right to benefit from compensation for temporary disability after termination of the employment relationship has been revoked. Until now, there has been such an opportunity within 30 days. Now that social security right has been revoked. What is the social security law that is limited? The access of restricted persons to benefit from unemployment benefits shall be restricted by extending the period required for access to those benefits from 9 months in the last 15 to 12 in the last 18 months. This means that a serious impact is being made on seasonal workers, farmers who can hardly meet the new increased requirements. Next, in this first budget of the ruling coalition, we had to see the election promises of the united nationalists. Instead, what do we see? Increase the minimum amount of the pension for internship and age not with the promised 300 BGN but with 7 BGN. and 60 C.E. Let someone come and prove to me from this stand that BGN 207. and 60 C.E. is equal to 300 leva. I'm sure one of you will tell me that this will happen by the end of the term. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, see what the updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2018 - 2020 reads. 58 in the forecast for the period 2018 - 2020 it is envisaged that the amounts of minimum pension for internship and age should be increased by percentages under art. 100 of the Social Security Code, namely: 2018 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man "3.9%', 2020 4 percent. Four percent means with the overlays somewhere around BGN 210. This money is not equal to 300 BGN, honourable importers of this Bill, honourable colleagues from the united nationalists. I want to show you another document. On page 21 of the Coalition Management Programme, priority 9 - Stable pension system, measure 129 - Raising pensioners' income by increasing the minimum amount of pension for internship and age, I do not see the number 300 anywhere. Here is an example of documents that you lied to your constituents in the last parliamentary elections. Here are the documents that say the exact opposite, not what you promised. Next, you promised to revise all disability pensions. Even one of the deputy prime ministers recently said that the disability pensions in Bulgaria, and the fake disability pensions, were 600 thousand. I don't know what methodology this is calculated by, I don't know how they came to this conclusion, but, ladies and gentlemen, this shows the embodiment of incompetence, shows the lack of knowledge of the system, shows the impasse and the inability to get out of the framework of false pre-election promises. You claim that you will realize all disability pensions and, notice, with the money from the implemented disability pensions you will increase and update all other pensions. This policy is not seen in this budget. I know it's your wish, but that's not going to happen from an expert point of view. So you lied to your constituents again.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u116	In the first year.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u117	What first year? Tell me, which document of the government's strategic documents is it written in? It's not even on your election platform, even though I have some hygiene not to read that kind of paperwork. [[Radio, partial applause in DPS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there was a great discussion in the course of the discussions on draft budgets on how the money for hospital lists has increased. Yeah, they're up to 500 million this year. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of seeing proposed measures to limit these irregularities, in your opinion, we see a very opposite increase of 15 million. lv. of the hospital list money. I thought they were fake.! Why don't you optimize the costs and offer a $15 million increase? Why do you propose that the Fund's money for general illness and disability increase by 100 million for the next budget? Does that make any sense? Either you're predicting some kind of birth rate boom, or you're predicting more hospital lists where the truth is? If we want to optimize budgets from state social security funds, we need to propose measures. Instead of proposing measures, what do we do? We're making a hell of a fuss about there being fake hospital lists, and the next thing you know, we're offering an increase in hospital bill in the program. How do these things work? Where is the logic in this thing, ladies and gentlemen of the House? Next, a few words on the expected implementation of the state social security budget for 2017, because on the basis of this implementation, measures and policies in the next budget are envisaged. Revenue from the State Social Security budget for 2017 is expected to be increased by 360 million by the end of the year. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, if anyone thought that this increase in revenue was due to the activity of the revenue agencies, it had nothing to do with it. What has led to an increase in revenue in the budget of the public insurance holding? Firstly, incorrect planning of gross domestic product. Secondly, from this tribune last year, I suggested that this revenue be increased by 300 million. From nine wells of water you've brought me to tell me that's not gonna happen. Does it happen? It happens. Yeah, but that's how you cut expenses? You cut them off. We therefore have no arguments to support your proposed budget. On expenses. 122 million. And 500,000. lv. expenditure at the end of the year more than planned. It is true that here comes the one-time payment of Easter allowances, probably at this stage. In any case, honourable Members, from the reform that was adopted by GERB's second cabinet in 2015 we have been expecting financial effects for the second year, already a third budget. What is the financial effect, ladies and gentlemen of the House? The financial effect is 13 million less expenditures in the Fund. With the 9 and a half billion budget of the Fund, Pency, 13 million for increasing age and internship. Four thousand less pensions now. Whether for biological reasons they are less or because the conditions for access, age and internship have been increased is now a very separate topic. We're talking about financial stability. The macroeconomic framework of the budget, the transfer made to the budget of state social security by the Ministry of Finance is 400,000 more than the planned plan. In other words, the balanced budget balance, in order to provide for another 400,000, must bring in the Ministry of Finance. And notice the absurdity of the pensioner with this amount of pensions he receives goes to the store because the pension spends it only on consumption, buys food products, pays 20% VAT and back refinances this minimum amount of pensions he receives. Does that make any sense, ladies and gentlemen? Next, in terms of short-term benefits, there is already an amount for the Fund, unemployment, general illness, maternity and temporary disability. Another question is what is the need to spend these funds? For the following year, an average of six days shall be provided for each insured person. This is written in the budget project. Didn't we have to propose measures to limit and optimize these costs? Instead, I repeat, we are proposing an increase of 15 million and a total increase of 100 million to the fund. I want to tell you another number. Did you know that in 2016 for the first three days employers paid 144 million. This is based on information from the fiscal council. In the first three days, apart from those 500 sick days, they paid 144 million extra. So in this budget, we had to see the measures to optimise these costs. I'm not against those who are sick getting benefits. That's not the point. It's the easiest way to blame an uncle doctor who writes a sick list because he's interested in getting away with his patient. Yeah, well, not like he used to say. A famous journalist. No, because there are other reasons why it is increasing, and they must be analysed and measures must be proposed. Unfortunately, this isn't happening. With regard to the macro framework of the state social security budget for 2018, we say that it is a balanced budget. Come on! How does this work? Balanced budget, 4 billion. 200 million. lv. Transfer from the Ministry of Finance!? This is the so-called........................................................................................................ That is, to balance this system, another 4 billion. 200 leva. It is true that this amount is diminishing. Some will say that this is thanks to the measures adopted in the 2015 reform. Nothing like this! This is because the contributions to the Fund are increasing by 1% and there is no way to avoid reducing this transfer from the budget of the Ministry of Finance. A few more words. In terms of revenue, the total amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary in the form of a guarantee is equal to the total amount of the aid Some would probably say that this is due to the favor and serious policy of the Ministry of Finance and the serious attitude towards the draft budget of state social security. Nothing like that, colleagues, only from the social security contribution to the Fund is 260 million. lv. The rest are of the minimum insurance thresholds, the increase of the minimum wage. Here to say a few words about the employed. You predict the number of employees to be increased by 10,000 next year. 300.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u118	Dr. Ademov, let's increase the time of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u119	...10,000. 300, ladies and gentlemen! But that's very small.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u120	Increase group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u121	Next, I would like to say a few words, and with that I will probably end because we do not have time to say that all the funds of state social security are in deficit except for one fund. But I also want to say two sentences for farmers. A dramatic increase of 300 leva. £480. in no way correlations with the idea of balancing funds. The balanced fund under art. 69 for the security sector, 82 million deficit. None of the funds are balanced. Suddenly we go to the poorest, the most unhappy people who do small farming, to increase them by 60% insurance contributions in the hopes of balancing the fund!? I won't talk about other policies. I would just like to say one thing, when presenting the budget of state social security, Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov had said that the budget for 2018 was a juicy pizza. If you want to allow me to rephrase this expression and refer it to the State Social Security Budget. This proposed budget of the state social security is called not Calzone. It is called Calzone pizza. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u122	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Replies to Dr. Ademov's statement? I can't see. Any other comments? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u123	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm stepping into the stands without any emotion. I'm not gonna be mad at anyone, I'm not gonna yell at anyone, I'm not gonna insult anyone the way I'm being blamed. It's a debate. The debate is, I'd say, yaw. We've heard this debate over many popular meetings from this tribune, and I've been excited. No reply was made to the honourable Mr. Ademov. Of course! What a line to make!? The debate is such that the opposition has to formally say the word, the leaders also formally say the word, to vote. We know how to vote, and by virtue of what is in charge, we will vote for the opposition who will vote against the opposition. We are all aware that this budget, as well as the entire consolidated budget, are budgets that cannot be other. The tales of the opposition are exactly what the opposition, if it were ruling, would have listened to from the current rulers. This is 300 million. lv. More than 40 million lv. More, farmers up and down, plus-minus something, some money, one percent, nothing changes the picture, nothing changes the philosophy, nothing changes the model that is colonial. Because Kiril Ananiev writes all the budgets. He wrote the budgets to the current opposition when they were ruling but he didn't write them to her. They're coming at him, maybe dictated to him. I do not want to belittle his role a deeply respected Bulgarian financier who may soon be a minister and dictated by the colonial masters, the chiefs. In Bulgaria, dear colleagues, still see what the perversion of the currency board is. Can you imagine 2017 Bulgaria - a country in the European Union - has a permanent representation here, there is a World Bank that has its own emissaries, its own representation. I will confess to you that in a personal conversation with a former friend of mine, Finance Minister of my words: "Do, give me the belt, especially in the social security budget, some people's money, a little to live our people." He: Pavka, you and Volen should I tell you and explain to you. You know well, I am here an employee. I have some parameters that I need to implement, to observe a deficit, a balance of payments, some figures that are asked by some world institutions, and I won't mention what I explain them again, and he, the man, kept them for four years, went somewhere... We all know it's true, and we're in the middle of it and we're excited and we're wondering. And here with this pizza!? A finance minister had said here, he had mentioned, he was still spinning with this he became famous for the post pizza. Now Valeri Simeonov one of the things was with the fence and with his other phrases, he mentioned the pizza "Calzone." Now Mr. Ademov made interpretations of the topic of pizza. Guys, it's pizza! The social security budget will be one piece of this pizza as sold, one lev, two leva each, i.e. from this whole pizza. [[Elevator bell dings]] This piece is the largest maybe, the most basic in absolute size, is a slice of pizza. The point is, we don't have a big tray here with a big pig. [[crowd cheering, GERB laughing]] That we share, that we distribute, that we give. That's the problem!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u124	Very culinary, Mr. Shopov! It's too culinary!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u125	Because everyone's always having pizzas, and I came to make this allusion, like we're here on one of Utty Buchvarov's cooking shows. Yeah, it's a figure of speech. But, guys, what are we doing here? We socialize poverty! We distribute misery!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u126	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u127	Which is coming, we know where from from the model that's inflicted on us....
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u128	Outside!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u129	And the model is outside, said Mr... I won't mention the name. [[Strong noise and laughter from GERB. A line from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Stoynev! Okay, he wanted me to mention his name. Mr. Stoynev! This misery is intrigued from the outside, and we are determined what to eat, what to drink, what else to do. How much of this...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u130	And GERB, where are they?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u131	...to be taken abroad through the property that is distributed, which has some banks. The current that shines on us, the owners, the big chain stores, the phones that we hold in our pockets, and they are foreign, the fuels, the big businesses, the cement plants, do I still carry on a profit here and this profit enriches some families in some capitals around the world or elsewhere where people live well? I won't remind you of a billion banks. 250 million profits go up, from the current between 300-350, five years ago I made some materials for the c. "Attack" where the large stores carried 600 million from Bulgaria. lv. It's a win-win. There's a lot more of them now. [[Applause and cheers by "BSP for Bulgaria": "Bravo, bravo!"]] That's the problem, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u132	And GERB, where are they?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u133	And we all share what remains here, the little one, from the Bulgarians who generate it. What is left of the Bulgarian business?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u134	Nothing!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u135	There are garages left to repair cars, some private hotel, some restaurant. Well, they left the vintage plants there the battle is too big to collect the excise duty from the vintage plants. The beer plants went, and they work elsewhere, for another profit. If we go on like this, the model, the liberal model that got us into...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u136	...from GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u137	It's not GERB, and you, Mr. Stoinev! [[Laughter at GERB.]] Because flat tax is an element of this liberal model. He's characteristic, especially characteristic! The flat tax...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u138	...we're changing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u139	...liberal contraption...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u140	...of GERB, of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u141	Henceforth, the liberal model in the economy, which sets its parameters from top to bottom and we, as a landtag, accept and perform. And next year the conversation will be the same! And again 300 million, 8.5%, 10 million, farmers, everything will revolve around this circle and we will wonder how, again, to socialize poverty, to distribute misery. Because the money generated in the state budget is very little, and there are very few. Because laws, tax laws are such that that money can't be anymore. Because the Bulgarian people are worried about the little money collected in the budget to be collected from VAT, which is 20%.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u142	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u143	And all liberals in Bulgaria say how good the tax 10% was, that it was round, that it was easily calculated [[DRF lines]] . Yes, but they, all liberals, disagree if the tax is reduced to 10% for the books, for the medicines, for the daily bread. And that's not gonna happen! So this debate will be held from here on in the same way. The next will speak, they will rumble here are distributed the bullets to the opposition [[Laughter]] They're blank, and we're gonna blame each other for this and that. Thank you. [[(Applause from GERB and yelling: Bravo, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Line, Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, dear Mr. Shopov! I have a very short line. Without the culinary statements you made at the beginning, I fully agree with you and sign with my two hands under what you said. Did you basically defend the budget? I didn't understand if you protected him because with the same motives we reject him!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u146	That's the masterpiece. [[Reply of Chairman Tsveta Karayancheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u147	These are part of our motives, and because of those actions of the government that you described here, we want a vote of no confidence.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u148	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u149	Your words are essentially proof of the failure of the management of GERB, of the 8-year government. Mr. Shopov, just as a line to you and as a question. Stand up and say with the words you have spoken, do you support this budget? Will you lift up, press the green button, or won't you press it? Because that's not what your statement is talking about! And your colleagues from the United Patriarchs, I think they think they think exactly like you, only they don't dare to say it, and you said it from the stands. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Second line, Mr. Sadakov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have heard an expert statement on the subject. Dear colleagues of GERB, with these people you manage the state. With this expertise, we're gonna spend that money. Congratulations! Let's keep things going in the right direction and hopefully we can make it. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Sadakov. Is there gonna be a third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Shopov. [[Radio, applause is shouts: "Bravo!" by DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u153	My friend Mr. Gokov didn't understand anything. [[Laughter, noise and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Next statement, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u155	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to return you to the topic of the state social security budget. I would like to focus in my speech on one of the proposals made in this budget, and this is the increase of the minimum insurance thresholds of farmers from 300 to 480 BGN. In practice, this means that if farmers have paid approximately 1000 BGN 1050 so far, now in 2018, they have to pay 1,800 BGN, including for general illness and motherhood. During the debate in the Committee on Agriculture and Food, I asked the question: on what basis is this dramatic increase of 60% proposed? There was no answer for me no readings were made. It is simply seen in the ceiling and it is certain that farmers are too rich or their incomes have risen in recent years and this is sufficient reason for them to rise with such a big difference. On the basis of the previous statement, I understand that whatever we talk about, the budget will be voted on. However, honourable Members, it is good to have motives. And these motives must be made on the basis of the real state not only of the sector, but of those people who will be most affected. Therefore, in my speech, I will draw attention to some facts about the state and structure of agricultural holdings in Bulgaria. Firstly, I must tell you that, from the point of view of small farms, the common agricultural policy is extremely unfair. However, it provides any opportunity to support agricultural holdings. What do you get? The state rather than supporting this injustice, which under the common agricultural policy is a fact in Bulgaria, a second programming period comes to the fact that it seized income precisely by increasing insurance thresholds, and it, as I have mentioned several times already, is quite drastic. In the country there are 112 thousand small farms that own land not more than 5 acres. Of these 112 thousand farms 35 thousand are registered. These 35 000 farms receive less than 3% of direct payments under the European funds. This includes 20,000 small farms that receive annually from 500 to 1250 euros. However, it is a condition for them to be registered as farmers, so they must pay insurance contributions. Whatever calculations you make, these farms cannot secure the funds to continue to pay next year. What will be the result? The result will be that most of them will also give up European funds because they cannot pay their contributions and at the same time will pass into the grey sector. And this is a group of farms that provide and enable the smallest farms to add to their income what they lack. By abstracting from the financial part, which is the most serious motive that we are attacking in this budget, there is a complete misunderstanding of the role and importance of family farms. These 112 thousand farms ensure, firstly, family employment and, secondly, survival. Small farms are also at the heart of food independence and food security by region, and this is extremely important, given that in most cases these regions are rural areas, employment is low, and also solves a number of demographic problems. I'd like to ask two more questions. However, if you calculate what income the family farms have, two issues need to be addressed. The first problem is the preservation of agricultural property. In recent years, the theft of agricultural property, especially from these holdings, has increased. A law was introduced for a reason, which wanted a change in the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Property, because what is really happening with the production that has been produced by these farms in recent years becomes a serious problem. The second point, which should also be taken into account in the calculation of what income agricultural holdings receive, is that from the final price that we consumers pay for agricultural production, the income of farmers is no more than 40%. From now on you can calculate for what is obtained against 5 acres that are processed in these farms. Despite the incantations that there is no use in this debate, that no matter what we talk about, there will be no sensitivity, yet I would like to appeal to serious treatment and attention to this particular group of farmers. They are the most vulnerable part of the agricultural sector. Between first and second reading, we will make our proposals and, believe me, we will make precise estimates of what can be borne as a burden by farmers and make the necessary adjustment to be fair to them the requirements regarding the payment of minimum insurance thresholds. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u156	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u157	Madam President, honourable Members. I want to deal with these minimum insurance thresholds because they are always one source of controversy. Of course, the smallest and most vulnerable should not be taxed with heavy taxes. On the other hand, we say that these small ones must be fine producers, which must be distinguishable in order to obtain European subsidies. In this regard, I would like to tell you that it is impossible for European regulations to allocate money to people who are not registered. Once they have registered as producers, from now on we propose that they do not pay their insurance but receive European subsidies. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] My question is, to speakers: please, when you say that they must be provided, and the insurance includes receiving pensions, receiving different services from the state, where will the money be taken? Otherwise, it doesn't sound serious. Everyone who says that money should be given over there, to say: "They must be taken from over there. " Otherwise, Professor Bachvarova, whom I respect and she knows this, may speak smartly, may Mr. Dr. Ademov speak in depth on financial matters, but you must be prepared for a statement and say: "This is where we get it from." "Otherwise, it sounds as funny to me as you laughed when the right-wing fellow Shopov tried to talk about world politics." That's not the man's power, and that's why it looks funny. [[Radio, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u158	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Second line? I can't see a second line. Here you are, Professor Bachvarova, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u159	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Petrov, I cannot agree with you that money is being distributed under the common agricultural policy. You have to be a farmer and a producer, you have to produce agricultural produce, and that money, as recorded under the common agricultural policy, is to support income. What are you doing? They support income on the one hand, but you, on the other hand, take it away from them?! Because from 300 to 480 leva. is something you don't have an explanation for why it's happening. You're looking for funds?! Well, find them, increase the maximum insurance income. Why are you worried about finding funds? After all, things are not black and white. When you say someone has to increase the minimum income insurance by 60%, you have to say if there is a possibility of doing so? These 35,000 small farms will come out of the support scheme, they will have absolutely no income under European funds, they will not be provided, they will work only for themselves or the grey sector, because you are forcing them through the drastic change you are proposing. And I'm really asking you, I don't know if I'm being smart, but I'm talking to numbers, and you can't argue against numbers in any form. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova, for your speech. Are there any lines to Mrs. Bachvarova's statement? [[Heckling]] Here you go, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Deputy Minister, Dear Mr. Ivanov, Gentlemen and Ladies Members of the National Assembly! This Draft Budget Bill on State Social Security for 2018 was developed in implementation of Decision No 37 of the Council of Ministers of 19 January 2017 on a budget procedure for 2018. The project shows a significant increase in the income from insurance contributions, which, compared to the state social security budget for this year, is 16.1% more or more precisely: the planned income from insurance contributions by nearly 903 million more. This is due to the increase in the insurance contribution by 1%, the growth of medium-term insurance income and the increase of insured persons. The insurance contribution, as you have all learned, for the Fund of Pensions, stands at 19.8% for those born before 1 January 1960 and 14 percent for those born after 31 December 1959. For the other funds of the State Social Security is envisaged in 2018 to retain the amounts and the ratio of the social contributions. An administrative increase in minimum insurance incomes by economic activities and major groups by 3.9% is envisaged, which is identical to the growth of the projected gross domestic product for 2018. This is a balanced solution that will increase frozen minimum insurance incomes for higher earning jobs. As we understand the minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons is planned to be BGN 510. The maximum social security income shall be retained. These were part of the basic revenue policies laid down. Last but not least, it should be noted that there is a significant reduction in the dependence of the state social security budget for 2018 on the state budget. The share of funding from the state budget until recently was about 50%, and now it is noted that for the next year the level is down to 40%. This is a symptom and a sign of financial recovery of the state social security system. In the area of expenditure, the project for 2018 sets out the following policies: as of 1 January 2018 the percentage for each year of insurance service in the pension formula shall be increased from 1,126 to 1.69 by a percentage determined by the rule of art. 100 of the Social Security Code. Recalculation of pensions from 1 July 2018 with 3.8 under the mechanism for increasing the burden of a year of insurance service in the pension formula is envisaged. From July 1, 2018, the minimum pension for internship and age will be increased to BGN 207,60 and the social pension for old age will be increased to BGN 125. The maximum amount of one or more pensions received remains BGN 910. The minimum daily amount of unemployment benefit of BGN 7.20 is increased. £9. and is defined as BGN 74,29. The period from which the short-term benefits are calculated shall be maintained: in the case of temporary working capacity, 18 calendar months, and in the case of unemployment and birth, 24 calendar months. The possibility of obtaining compensation for temporary incapacity after termination of relationships and contracts is removed. The planned increase in expenditure on the state social security budget for 2018 is 691, 8 million. BGN, i.e. the costs are less than the growth of revenues. The increase in expenditure is mainly due to the higher cost of the pension, which is over 500 million or 519.6 million, with pensions and short-term unemployment benefit. The average pension amount of a pensioner in 2018 is expected to reach 362, 97 BGN, which is 5.5% more compared to 2017. As a result of the ratio of income and expenditure, there is a significant improvement of the state social security system, which is in absolute relative deficit reduction. The planned amount of the lack of funds, which is covered by a subsidy from the state budget for next year, is 4 billion. The Commission Three hundred thousand. lv. A lasting trend has been established to reduce the deficit of the system and to reduce the amount of the transfer of the state budget to cover the deficit. We from GERB's parliamentary group will support the State Social Security Budget Bill because it is sustained and realistic, there is a sustainable trend for increasing the incomes of the Bulgarians, and it is expected to remain in 2018. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there any lines to the statement? There are no lines. We continue with the speeches. Please, those who wish to speak. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll start by comparing the pizza. In no case is the proposed Bill of State Social Security Budget not a pizza. It's a loaf of dry bread. And why is that? Because with what you're offering us, you're making some minor concessions at the expense of many other rights. I'll just mention some of them. You increase the minimum daily amount of unemployment benefit by BGN 1.80. Sorry, how do you live, 180 leva. And where is the poverty line? It is high time for the minimum amount of unemployment benefit to be linked to 60% with the minimum wage. Another breadcrumb.. 1.33 BGN. for raising a young child, the compensation for raising a young child after 1 year. Dear gentlemen, with the proposed increase of BGN 1.33. I'm sorry, how will a mother support herself and the child, once she's worked, make maternity insurance payments? However, the financial pressure on the household budget will hardly force her to leave her child if she has no one else to leave it to. I'll also mention another crumb. On minimum pensions, up to ten. Excuse me, gentlemen, who are offering this budget, what are we doing with a million and three hundred thousand pensioners living below the poverty line? Are these your measures? However, this is not what I would say, but a serious retreat from the guaranteed rights of workers you make with the adjustments to the Social Security Code, namely in § 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the State Social Security Budget. In the proposed text t. Article 8 reads: "Article 8 shall be repealed. 42, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union Do you know what we're doing with this term? We take away the right of people who have been suspended from employment to benefit from temporary disability after 30 days of termination. Our main arguments are that these persons receive benefits for termination. Excuse me, gentlemen, there are many cases and hypotheses in which in the Labour Code, under art. 325, where the mutual employment relationship is terminated, persons shall not be entitled to benefits relating to their unemployment. I will also return to the Social Security Code, art. 42, second and third sentences - those in the current version of the Social Security Code. Why ignore them and point out motives that are not relevant to the texts of the Social Security Code? I'm reading you the second and third sentences of the current current article. 42, para. 2: In these cases, the cash compensation shall not be paid to persons receiving pensions or unemployment benefits determined in accordance with the legal act. Cash benefits paid for temporary disability shall be reimbursed by the persons for the period for which they have been granted a pension or compensation paid for their unemployment. It is precisely because of the lack of the right to another type of compensation for the insured person in the case of temporary disability arising immediately after the termination of the insurance, the provision of a replacement income will be most useful. I'm going to give you back to the adjustment that we introduced in 2011. Then people were entitled to 2 months after the termination of such compensation, and now we completely take that right away from them. Here comes the next text in item. 9 of this paragraph, which is affected by art. 54a, para. 1 of the Social Security Code. The requirement to have at least 12 months of insurance service in the last 18 months is changed, which is currently 9 months from 15 calendars. And this leads to further limitation of access to unemployment benefit. The next.................................................................... 10, regulates changes in art. 54b, supplementing para. 3 with the reasons that Article must be added. Article 331 107a of the Civil Service Act, in which you point out: "This is the legal opportunity of the employer against an agreed compensation to terminate the respective employment relationship without imposing any other motives as they are in the hypotheses of art. 328, 325 and others. And in this case, you bring in all those people who have a clear incompatibility, and the desire, and the will is on the part of the employer, not to be given the opportunity to receive unemployment benefits, which are really exhausting over 60 percent of their remuneration for the period in which they have had a long service. You are currently putting them in the hypothesis that these persons will receive the minimum unemployment allowance for the shortest period. Here, this is just another withdrawal. And so that I don't have to get tired of taking the employees' rights, I'm just going to mention that. 11 of § 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions in which you are currently changing the necessary years of service and the months in which the person will receive the corresponding compensation. There's a resection there, too. With all these restrictions, with all the crumbs you're filing in the so-made Public Security Budget Bill, you're showing that not the people, but the highways are at the center of your government. Moreover, the state budget is a reflection of your vision and specific policies. Thus, the proposed Budget Bill shows no step to take account of the severe social division and the deepening poverty of the Bulgarian nation. The share of people living in severe material deprivation in 2016 was 34.2%, with the share of these people increased by 110 thousand people compared to 2014. 1 million lives below the poverty line. 639 thousand. Souls, like retired people, are about a million and three hundred thousand of these. The share of working poor in 2016 rose by 110 thousand people more than 2015. In 2016 2600 fewer children were born in the country compared to 2014 and the population decreased by 100 000 people. With this budget you keep the collapse of the Bulgarian nation. Where are you taking us, gentlemen? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there any lines to Mrs. Klisurska's statement? I don't see any lines. Please come in for further comments. Mr. Siderov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After this Komsomol pathos, it's gonna be a little hard for me to talk, since I've drifted away from this rhetoric for years. I would like to say first that the group of the United Patriarchs will support this Law on State Social Security. [[Applause from GERB]] since it is the possible Law since it is better than last year. It's like arguments, we won't get into any more details, enough specialists have spoken out of this tribune. I would like to say a few words about the speech of my colleague Pavel Shopov, who caused noise in the Chamber, as he is an unusual person, who we are all from the "Patriots" - an unconventional but thinking. What he outlined as an overview, an analysis of neoliberalism, what damage neoliberalism has done is true, only, ladies and gentlemen, here in this part of the Chamber, the ruling coalition consists of parties that are new parties. Neither GERB nor the parties of the patriots existed when privatisation was carried out, some call it plundering [[Applause from GERB]] , or when the neoliberal model was imposed, which led to the present misery for many Bulgarians. Yes, many Bulgarians live badly. It's a fact. But recalling this fact and the statistics that you read here, ladies and gentlemen of the left, do not help these people to become richer. They help with the action. We do what is possible step by step, slowly but surely in this direction. That's the way to make politics. The other are speeches that could be good for a literary club or some communication club. Real policy means making it possible within the term of office that you have. That's what we do, and I think this is the way to work. And one last piece of advice. It is not my job to give advice to other parties, but if you want some of these people who are in distress and misery, to feel a little better, start with the fees in your party body, pay them off. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u166	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. The last recommendation sounded as a vote from the battle between the newspaper "Democracy" and the newspaper "Word" since the beginning of the 1990s. Mr. Siderov's line? [[Noise and lines.]] In the manner of conduct, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u167	I want the word in the manner of conduct! You have no right!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u168	Okay, Professor, I accept, you will speak in the manner of conduct. Mr. Ermenkov, please come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u169	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct to note to you that we in the National Assembly usually discuss budgets, express these, express our views both as party persons and as individuals. [[Heckling]] If colleagues are a little patient, a little more careful, they will understand the procedure, so be patient! And I'm going to ask you, when someone goes outside the normal debates that we bring here on budgets, on points, on policies and on numbers, and becomes an interpreter of the speech of the speaker, to take his word for it. Because in the end, I think we're smart enough here to find out what Mr. Shopov meant to tell us Mr. Volen Siderov what Mr. Shopov meant. Please! And to remind from time to time those who talk about privatization, that when this privatisation was happening, they were in the SDS. [[Noise and lines. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u170	Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, this procedure, which Mr. Ermenkov took, was not in the manner of conduct, but was a statement and had to be terminated. Secondly, Mr. Zablyanov, just now as President of the National Assembly and Head of the Assembly, violated the Rules of Procedure, also took the position of the Speaker of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs. This is unacceptable and should be sanctioned, moreover, that Mr. Zablyanov has no right at all to take this position above in view of all his speeches, which are against the Bulgarian national interests related to Bulgarians abroad. [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u172	Any other procedures? Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u173	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The budget of state social security is one of the most important because it concerns each one of us Bulgarian citizens. In this House, we have heard a lot of criticism from the opposition, most unfounded, unproductive, aimed at ignoring the positives of this budget and creating unfounded fears in people. It is very easy to criticize when you are in opposition when you are not aware of financial stability and are not responsible for the management of the state. The budget of state social security for 2018 is a budget of balance between social security and social justice. It focuses on policies aimed at expanding the insurance base and strengthening the link between the insurance contribution and the amount of pensions received and benefits from insured persons. A number of changes aimed at increasing the incomes of Bulgarian citizens are laid down in the State Social Security Budget for 2018. The growth of pensions, minimum insurance benefits, maternity, minimum unemployment benefit and guaranteed employees' claims in the event of the company's bankruptcy is envisaged. I will not dwell in detail on the underlying policies laid down in the draft budget in the field of revenue and expenditure. This is what my colleague Irena Dimova did in her speech. Rather, I would like to draw your attention to some important parameters. For the following year, the planned income from insurance contributions is nearly 903 million. BGN, or by 16,1% more compared to the State Social Security Budget Act for 2017. Only from the increase by 1% of the insurance contributions to the Fund will there be an additional around 212 million. lv. in the revenue section. This measure also met support from the opposition. It is envisaged that in 2018 the amounts of insurance contributions for the other funds will be maintained. Another important measure of the budget is that, for the first time in recent years, the dependence of the state social security budget on the state transfer has decreased and is below 40 per cent of the total amount of 37.8%, compared to 42.4% in the previous year, which shows that the policy and measures undertaken in recent years are in the right direction. I will look a little more closely on the topic of increasing the minimum insurance income of farmers and tobacco producers from 300 BGN. at 480 BGN, an important subject which I believe will continue between first and second readings. One of the main principles of the Bulgarian social security system is its solidarity. This means, in practice, that there are a group of persons who enjoy rights against whom there is insufficient social contribution to ensure the use of those rights. Or in other words, the insurance contributions they make do not cover the payments received. A typical example of this is the scheme of providing farmers and tobacco producers. The financial system shall ensure a minimum amount of the pension that is not covered by the defined social security income. For three consecutive years the amount of insurance income for farmers and tobacco producers is artificially detained at 300 BGN. "In 2015, 2016 and 2017" I remember that in 2014 with the budget of state social security for 2015 there was also a proposal for an increase of the insurance income for farmers from 240 BGN. £420. Then we accepted a compromise option for 300 leva. Too many curtsies have been made so far. Farmers and tobacco producers are the only ones with the privileges to pay insurance on such a low amount. However, if you accept this proposal for 480 leva. Insurance income for farmers will still not be equal to the minimum insurance income that will be paid by the next year self-insuring persons, namely BGN 510. It is controversial and difficult to defend that farmers' incomes have not increased in three years. At the same time, there is a smooth increase in minimum social security benefits by economic activities, the offered level of minimum social security income is also in the interests of the individuals themselves. Because the real pension that they should receive on a social income of 300 BGN, as it is now, is 60 or 70 BGN, and the difference to the amount of the minimum pension is 200 BGN, we pay all of us taxpayers. Why should the others pay? The question we need to ask ourselves is: how far should the principle of solidarity go and do we not deprive farmers of the possibility of increasing their pensions in the future? It would not have been a sharp step if each year there were no compromises in the direction of freezing the amount of insurance income for farmers and tobacco producers. But agree, fellow Members, that 300 BGN. Insurance income is extremely low. Regarding the increase in pensions next year, we also received criticism. In the budget of the State Social Security for 2018, all newly granted pensions from the beginning of the year will take into account the new higher burden of For each year, insurance service and all other pensions will be updated by 3.8% from 1 July. These measures are linked to the policy of increasing confidence in the insurance system and increasing motivation to secure real income. In 2018, the average amount of pension per pensioner is expected to reach 362,97 BGN. You say the increase is small, but let's remember that this year we raised by nearly 24% the minimum pension for internship and the age of over 824 thousand. They're retired. If we accept the proposal to raise pensions by BSP colleagues, it will cost the budget 1.8 billion. lv. There is no financial resource, colleagues on the left, for this increase. If we allow ourselves, we significantly increase the NSI deficit. Or this must be done at the expense of other sectors of health, education, security and others. The temporary disability payment regime shall be maintained and the first three working days shall be paid at the rate of 70% of the insurance provider and on the fourth day of the failure to work will be paid by the state social security. The period from which short-term benefits for pregnancy and childbirth and temporary incapacity are calculated shall be maintained. The size for raising a young child from one to two years of age is increased from 340 to 380 BGN. This payment has been frozen in recent years. We increase it by 40 BGN and we do not equalize it with the minimum wage because we want to stimulate mothers to return to the labour market. We have also received criticism regarding the new conditions for obtaining the right to unemployment benefit, namely to import or owe contributions to the Fund. These new conditions are linked to the economic cycle in which our country's economy is located, namely economic growth and the need for a workforce to meet the challenges associated with economic growth. There is a shortage of labour in the economic sector. The main policies in this area are related to the transition from passive compensation to active behaviour on the labour market, stimulating the smaller stay on the labour market as an unemployed person. The main issue with which a solution should be sought is precisely related to whether money benefits are to be received longer or to stimulate active behaviour and obtain income from work. The answer is categorically the second answer that people have to work and receive income from work. This is the responsible and fair solution instead of hindering economic growth and draining social funds. It is unacceptable to encourage the occupation of unemployed. These are public funds, and they must be spent and not be abused. I will finish, honourable Members, many things can be said about policies that are planned for next year under the budget of state social security. The proposed draft budget for state social security, as a conclusion, can be said to be sustained, realistic and covers the criteria for stability in public security. Therefore, we from the political party GERB parliamentary group will support it. I hope that you, Members of the opposition, will be objective and realistic. In the forthcoming vote on the state social security budget, not to be guided by populist motives, but to think about the stability and security of public security. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u174	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mrs. Angelova, I will be very brief. No matter how many times you use the word "enlargement"? You and the Pre-speakers of GERB party, people no longer believe you. As well as presenting your pizza. [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] People no longer believe you, and they show it every day with the protests of those who serve in all spheres of the country. I'm glad this budget is going to be your last because people don't trust you anymore! [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u176	Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u177	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Naydenova! [[Comments from GERB: "Angelova! "]] Naydenova! [[Representation of the National Representative Svetlana Angelova Naydenova.]] You were writing there a while ago, Naydenova. Are you oiled on car glass? You didn't. You can't see anything when it gets smeared. We won't see anything next year. It's the same thing, and it's gonna go on. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u178	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Is there a third line? Here you go, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues who have replicated me! It's a good thing you're making criticisms, but make constructive criticisms. It is good that you are making criticism, but it is even better if you are informed if you are reading more, because both in your speeches and in your lines shows incompetence. Nor have you read the state social security budget for next year [[(a line from the MP Dragomir Stoynev: Did she read it?]] You don't have any idea of social security! The debate, honourable Members, should be conducted at an expert level, not be guided by populism and create an illusion in people that they should spend more than they earn. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a Bill on the State Social Security Budget for 2018, which was introduced in the National Assembly's Law under No 702-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. They voted 209 MPs: for 123, against 86, there is no abstention. The 2018 State Social Security Budget Bill was adopted in the first vote. [[Applause from GERB.]] Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF BULGARIA FOR 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. According to a decision of the National Assembly, only the reports will be presented and tomorrow we will continue with the opinion of the importer, debate and vote. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. You have the floor, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u181	♪ I can't believe under the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At a meeting held on 2 November 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by: Vladislav Goranov, Deputy Minister of Finance, Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance; Biser Petkov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Miroslav Nenkov, Deputy Minister of Health; from the Court of Auditors: Tsvetan Tsvetkov, Chairman, Gornitsa Grancharova and Tosko Todorov, Deputy President; from the Supreme Judicial Council: Boyan Magdalinchev and Sevdalin Mavrov, Member of the SJC; Dimitar Kostov, Deputy Governor of BNB; from the National Insurance Institute: Ivaylo Ivanov, Governor, Vesela Karaivanova, Governor, Penka Taneva, Actuer, and Snezhana Malakova. Minister Goranov presented the Bill and stressed that the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for the next year and the updated medium-term budget forecast present the economic prospects and the main assumptions the government handles, building fiscal goals and priorities. Data from the European Commission, the European Central Bank, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund are used to compile the macroeconomic forecast. During the 2018-2020 period, efforts will continue to be directed to support the preservation of economic and financial stability and the creation of conditions for continued economic growth. In his exhibition, Minister Goranov presented the main parameters of the budgetary framework for the period 2018 - 2020 and stated that they are realistic, in line with the fiscal objectives and the rules laid down in the legislation - national and European, fiscal rules. I. Macroeconomic forecast for the period 2017 - 2020 Main macroeconomic indicators: 1. Gross domestic product In 2017, the Bulgarian economy is expected to mark a real growth of 4.0%, driven by domestic demand and mostly by private consumption. During the first half of the year, the growth of the real disposable income of households and the positive development of the labour market supported the growth of private consumption, while higher government expenditures on salaries and maintenance were reflected in an increase in public consumption. For 2018, economic growth is expected to slow slightly to 3.9%. Expectations for lower demand for the country's main trading partners will limit the growth of exports of goods and services to 5.9%, with an expected growth of 6.1% in 2017. Final consumption will increase by 4.7% and investment growth will speed up to 4.3%. During the period 2019 - 2020 GDP growth is expected to remain at a level of 3.9%. Internal demand will remain leading to the increase in GDP in terms of both consumption and investment. 2. Labour market In the first half of 2017, the labour market marked a greater increase and despite the expected slowdown in the growth of the employed by the end of the year, the average rate of increase in employment for the whole of 2017 is expected to be accelerated to around 0.8%. The growth of the employed will be accompanied by a decline in the unemployment rate to 6.5% and the level of participation of the population in the workforce is expected to grow on an annual basis to 54.4%. In 2018, the unemployment rate is expected to fall to 6.2%. The economic activity ratio (15+) is expected to grow at a slower pace than the previous year due to the gradual contraction of the potential of the free labour reserve, which could satisfy demand for labour. Negative demographic development and the corresponding impact on labour supply will limit employment growth to around 0.4 and 0,2% in 2019 and 2020 respectively. The unemployment rate will continue to decrease smoothly and in 2020 is expected to reach 5.6% of the workforce. 3. Inflation Average annual inflation in 2017 is expected to be 1.1%. The average annual increase in the harmonised consumer price index in 2018 is forecast to be 1.4% and inflation at the end of the year to reach 1.6%. II. Financial policy and basic parameters for the period 2018 - 2020 The consistent fiscal policy in recent years provides a reliable basis for sustainability of the budgetary framework and an opportunity to define budgetary prospects in the medium term. Therefore, for the period 2018 - 2020 the government continues to direct its efforts to support the preservation of economic and financial stability and to create conditions for economic growth in line with the established priorities, objectives and measures in the Management Programme of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021. With regard to the implementation of the 2017 budget, an improvement of the budget balance is expected to be balanced compared to that provided in the estimates of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 deficit of 1.4% of GDP. This improvement in the budget balance contributes, on the one hand, to the expected over-performance of tax revenues and, on the other, lower than the planned implementation of expenditure in an annual plan, including due to lower than planned expenditure on the accounts of EU funds. The current updated forecast retains the deficit targets set out in the spring-term budget forecast for the 2018-2020 period, for 2018 and 2019 respectively, of 1,0% and 0,5% of GDP, and achieves a balanced budgetary position in 2020. The medium-term tax plan does not provide for significant changes while maintaining the government's low tax priority. The revenue forecast also takes into account the positive developments in the current autumn macroeconomic forecast for the stabilisation of the national economy. During the forecast period, a trend of nominal annual growth for each of the years of the period, including for 2018, compared to the expected implementation for 2017. As a percentage of GDP in revenues, there is a trend of a slight decline from 36.2% to 35.5% with an updated forecast for the period 2018 - 2020 and the same trend is observed in the spring forecast, where indicators are higher as a result of different GDP estimates. In nominal terms, the revenue under the CFF increased to 38 223.9 million. lv. For 2018, it is expected to reach 42 355.2 million. lv. in 2020 In the case of expenditure, trends similar to those of revenue are observed. The forecasts are for nominal annual growth for each of the years of the period, including for 2018, compared to the 2017 programme, due to higher growth in social and health insurance payments, staff and pensions, providing funding for the government's priority policies. The spring SBP also reported a growth of 685 million. lv. For 2018 and for about 1.1 billion respectively. lv. for 2019 and 2020, due to the included estimates for the financing of the new measures of the management programme. In terms of costs, the trends for limiting them as a result of measures to increase the efficiency of public expenditure are maintained. This forecast shows a nominal increase in total costs, as of 39 323.9 million. lv. In 2018 it is expected to reach 42 355.2 million. lv. in 2020. The difference between the funds allocated for 2018 compared to the 2017 programme represents an increase of 2,554.3 million. lv. increase. In these projections, the achievement of a balanced budget will be achieved at the level of redistribution of public expenditure, significantly lower than the maximum level of expenditure allowed under the KFP "40 per cent of GDP' under the Public Finance Act. The continuing fiscal consolidation and the forecast for achieving a balanced budget in 2020 are a prerequisite for a declining need for debt financing of the budget and a gradual decline in the ratio of government debt to forecast GDP is expected to reach a 20,0% level at the end of the period. III. Key indicators of the Consolidated fiscal programme 2018: 1. Revenues: The amount of the total revenue, aid and donations under the Consolidated fiscal programme for 2018 is 38 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within 2. Cost: The amount of the total expenditure and contribution to the European Union budget is 39 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the The consolidated fiscal programme for 2018 provides for the amount of the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the General Budget of the European Union for 2018 to be 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, or 3. Budget balance: The consolidated fiscal programme for 2018 provides for the budget balance to be a deficit of 1 billion. And 100 million. lv. Regarding the estimated amount of gross domestic product, the deficit is 1%. Expenditure direction in the consolidated fiscal programme for 2018 by function: 1. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. The Commission therefore concludes that The function shall include the costs of executive and legislative bodies, of part of executive agencies and committees, as well as funds in the field of science. 2. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment The Commission therefore concludes that The estimated expenditure on defence and security for 2018 reflects the state policy on defence, security and internal affairs, the judiciary, as well as the activities on the implementation of penalties. The main priorities of defence policy, which is conducted by the Ministry of Defence, are continuity and sustainability of the development of the armed forces by carrying out a realistic defence policy that is consistent with the country's security threats, our alliance commitments in NATO and the EU and the available financial resources; 3. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the The Commission therefore concludes that Complex measures and actions guaranteeing equal access to quality education will be implemented for the realization of educational priorities in pre-school and school education. In order to ensure success in the implementation of educational policies, motivated, prepared and supported teachers are required by investing in their development and qualification. The updated medium-term budgetary forecast for the period 2018 igr 2020 provides for a gradual increase in the remuneration of pedagogical staff in the pre-school and school education system in order to achieve their doubling in 2021. In order to bind funding to the quality of education, a change in the system of delegated budgets will take place from 2018 and funding will not depend only on the number of children and students, but also on the number of classes, on the specifics of the region in which the school is located, but on the quality of the educational process in the long term. The implementation of higher education policies will be implemented by providing funding aimed at the results of the training; by strengthening the interaction between higher schools and businesses; by improving the model of accreditation and quality assessment in higher education; by stimulating scientific development and career growth of teachers from higher schools; by supporting the mobility of students and lecturers. National funding for education will continue to be complemented by EU funds. 4. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. The Commission therefore concludes that This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for In this way there will be security, stability and predictability in the health insurance system. Provision will be made for the control and efficiency of expenditure in the health insurance system and for the quality of treatment and access to medical care. As priority areas and activities remain emergency medical care, e-health, mother and child health, assisted reproduction, hospital care facilities, as well as drug policy. The implementation of the reform of the sector is aimed at improving access to quality medical activities, increasing the satisfaction of Bulgarian citizens with the quality of the medical services offered, adequate funding and achieving financial sustainability of the sector in the medium term. The forecast for 2018 provides for an increase of 25.5 million. lv. the current costs of health in relation to the phased increase in the salaries of medical staff, the increase of the MPD and the insurance contributions to the DEA by the employer. The number of health mediators is increased by 15 pieces. 5. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. The Commission therefore concludes that The planned expenditure in the field of social security and support for 2018 reflects the state policy on social security, social welfare, pensions and other activities in the field of social assistance and care and are in line with economic opportunities and demographic trends. 6. For the function of Housing, Public Works, Communist Economy and Environmental Protection, a total of 2 billion expenditure is provided for 2018 under the KFP. The Commission therefore concludes that In 2018 the planned funds will finance expenditure in the implementation of the policy in the field of integrated development of the regions in the country and reduce differences, as well as improving their infrastructure connectivity, modernizing the water infrastructure, developing a new working model of the Bulgarian residential system. In 2018, expenditure will be financed for construction, reconstruction and rehabilitation of sewerage and inland water network in settlements, supporting the design and construction of water supply dams, construction planning, cadastral maps and registers, geodefense costs; maintenance, modernisation and construction of technical infrastructure and integrated management of water resources. In the field of environmental protection, environmental projects and activities related to projects for the construction of small water supply networks and facilities of local importance for drinking water supply of the population will be financed for 2018. It will also provide funding for projects for the construction of waste water treatment plants, sewerage networks and extracting collectors, facilities for the protection of the mermaids and the shores of the derettas from erosion, facilities for regulating the flow of rivers and the creation of water areas of local importance. A significant part of the planned funds will be targeted at projects related to the construction of new or re-cultivation of existing landfills, installations or waste management facilities. Financing of specialised machinery, separation facilities and installations for treatment, processing, separation, recycling or recovery systems for waste is also envisaged. The funds provided for the implementation of programmes to address the environmental damage caused by past actions or omissions in the privatisation of 2018 amount to 5,0 million. lv. 7. For Function "Adjournment, Culture, Religious Activities" in 2018 expenditure in amount is foreseen The Commission therefore concludes that The estimated funds provide financial support for the state policy in the field of culture, support the implementation of projects related to the restoration of monasteries and religious monuments of culture, and others; the means of expanding the opportunities for practicing motor activity and healthy lifestyles and for the development of school sports are also planned. The planned resources in the field of sport for 2018 provide conditions for the implementation of projects and activities related to the development of sport for students and sport practice by all in order to strengthen the health and development of sport for excellence as a means to enhance the prestige of the nation. In the field of culture, in order to improve the efficiency and quality of artistic production and in 2018, the Ministry of Culture, together with creative unions and national trade unions, will continue to improve the financing model of state cultural institutes operating in the field of performing arts, for which additional funds of 10 million are provided. lv. As regards municipalities in the field of culture for 2018, standards for regional libraries and for Chitalishtes have been increased by 14%. A single cost standard is introduced for all museums and art galleries of a regional nature regardless of the subsidised number. 8. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 918.2 million. lv. The funds read in the function reflect state policy in terms of the real sector, agricultural and forestry policies, fisheries and aquaculture, as well as priority policies in the implementation of infrastructure projects in the field of transport and projects related to energy stability and efficiency, industry, construction, tourism, mining, fuels, energy and others. 9. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. lv. This function includes the cost of interest on debt servicing, as well as the cost of interest on state investment loans. Budgetary relations of the state budget with municipalities for 2018 Budget policies with regard to municipalities are aimed at expanding the opportunities for their sustainable and balanced development, improving efficiency and improving the quality and scope of activities at local level. The main challenge for municipalities is continuing actions for financial recovery of municipal finances and bringing fiscal indicators and rules for debt and financial situation in line with the requirements of the Public Finance Act. The KFP provides for a general increase in municipal own revenues in relation to a trend in the increase of income from property taxes, municipal fees and incomes and property incomes. The reports are positive in line with the mechanisms of interaction between the central and local authorities, as well as the improvement of the management and administration systems for local taxes and fees. Additional positive effects on municipal own revenues are expected as a result of action being taken to improve their collection. The relative share of municipal expenditure for 2018 reaches 5.2 per cent of GDP and the share of local expenditure is estimated at 48.4 per cent of the total costs of municipalities. The relative share of municipal costs in the total cost structure of the KFP reached 14.3%. For 2018, there is an increase in the size of the main budgetary relations between the central budget and municipalities by 382.7 million. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv.; of the matching subsidy of 10 million lv.; of transfers for winter maintenance and snow cleaning by 5 million lv.; the target subsidy for capital expenditure by 10 million lv. The funds for each delegated activity by the state are determined according to the established standards and natural indicators, agreed with the industry ministries and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Under the bill of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 1. Revenue, aid and donations are available at a total of 23 billion. 515.8 million. lv. This amount is greater than the amount of the 2017 budget by 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that This increase is formed by expected in more revenue from tax revenue by 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and in less revenue from non-tax revenue by 235,2 million. lv. 2. The total cost for 2018 is 11 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures The increase is allocated to current costs 538.7 million. lv. and capital expenditure 292,5 million lv. 3. Budgetary relations (transfers) - net of 11 billion The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. lv. and are the result of transfers of 11 billion. One hundred and one million. lv. and received transfers of an amount of 18 million lv. The amount of budgetary relations for 2018 has been increased by 370,7 million. lv. 4. For 2018, a contribution to the general budget of the European Union is proposed to an amount of 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that This contribution is greater by 141,4 million. lv. from the 2017 contribution 5. The budget balance is proposed to be a deficit of 623.5 million. lv. and carrying out operations in the part of the financing of the budget balance of the same amount. This amount is less than 240,6 million. lv. of the amount of deficit for 2017 Budget of the judiciary 2018 The Supreme Judicial Council proposes for 2018 a total revenue, aid and donations of 116,0 million. BGN, or with 9,0 million. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Cohesion Fund, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the The Council of Ministers proposes for 2018: - Total revenue, aid and donation of 116 million. BGN, or less than 9 million. lv. from 2017; - Total expenditure of 590,4 million BGN, or more by 25,4 million. lv. compared to 2017. The increase is given for current costs 28 million. lv. the capital expenditure is reduced by 2.6 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • In the revenue and expenditures indicated by the Council of Ministers, the budgetary relationship with the central budget became 474.4 million. BGN, which is in excess of 34.4 million. lv. from the 2017 budgetary relationship The reserve for 2018 shall be maintained at the level of 2017. Six hundred thousand. lv. Budget of the National Assembly for 2018 The budget of the National Assembly for 2018 provides for the following revenue, expenditure and budgetary relations with the central budget: revenue 1.5 million. lv.; Expenditure 62,2 million lv. and budgetary relations with the central budget (transfers) 60.7 million lv. The total cost of the current expenditure is 59.2 million. lv.; capital expenditure is 2,5 million lv. and the emergency and unforeseen expenditure reserve is 0,5 million. lv. A discussion was held on the bill, which presented various opinions and raised many questions. People's representative Yordan Tsonev (DPS PG) expressed the following remarks and questions: first, there is no analysis of economic growth. The growth, according to Mr. Tsonev, is not due to investments and improved investment environment, but to the fact that the previous year there was a sharp decline of 6.6 percentage points and it is mainly based on exports and consumption. That reduction in the administrative burden, which concerns the removal of the criminal record requirement and several other budgetary measures, will not affect investment. Second, about the education sector, there are no reforms in this sector. Does secondary education correspond to business needs? Do you get out of high school trained professionals? Are the specialties for which the budget pays the necessary business? Third, there is no overall vision to correct these sectors, which absorb huge financial resources. People's representative Rumen Gechev (BGG) for Bulgaria (BSP) expressed the opinion that there is a lack of funding in the sectors of science and education, health, defence and so on. The representative of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria Doncho Barbalov stated principle support to the Bill in view of the planned significant additional funds for municipal budgets, namely: additional funds for relations with municipalities, delegated activities for staff, administrative resources of municipalities, municipal health (for medical staff salaries), social activities and culture. Mr. Barbalov stressed that additional funds are needed for: administrative capacity of municipal administration, municipal roads, faster municipalities, municipal hospitals in hardly accessible and remote areas. People's representative Mihail Hristov from the GG of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) expressed the opinion that it is necessary to clarify what the funds under the budget programme for the integration of people with disabilities are used for and what the results of them will be. People's representative Krastina Taskova from PP's PG of Volja....said that there is no desire and effective measures to combat corruption and the grey economy, which leads to a reduction of revenue in the budget. Next, the demographic crisis for which no measures have been proposed. Last but not least, insufficient measures to eliminate the administrative burden on business. Mr. Dimitar Kostov "Developer of BNB, Management "Bankov................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The analysis shows that what is realised as a budgetary policy is accompanying or supporting the development of the economy, in the sense that a countercyclical budgetary policy is being carried out, which is important through the prism of a central bank. The representative of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria Dobrin Ivanov expressed support for the bill. Employers believe that the proposed macroeconomic forecast is realistic and feasible. They support the maintenance of the tax model and tax rates, the low percentage of the reassignment role of the budget of gross domestic product, prudent government debt management, as well as the definition as a priority of education and the allocation of additional resources for science and culture. At the same time, they do not support the increase in costs in unformed sectors, such as Security and, in particular, the Ministry of Interior, as well as increased costs for state administration. The representative of the CST Luben Tomev said that the CST appreciates the extremely positive changes in budgeting in terms of both technical and meaningful budget layout, the motivation that is set in it, such as analyses and further reflections in the direction of raising priorities, respectively financial provision of these priorities. According to the CNS, a number of structures, both in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, are insufficiently funded. In the field of healthcare, psychiatric hospitals, health inspections and other structures, there is also a shortage. Deputy Chairman of the Bulgarian Industrial Association Dimitar Brankov stressed that despite the steps noted in terms of improving budgetary relations with municipalities there are no decisive steps for financial decentralisation. He insisted to reconsider the possibility of restoring the level of funding of BAS of 100 million between the first and second votes. lv. The questions were answered in detail by Minister Goranov. Under the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, the Standing Committees of the Forty-fourth National Assembly at their meetings have examined, discussed and expressed their support for the Bill, with the exception of: the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Complaints of Citizens, the Anti-Corruption Commission, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, which have not supported the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held and the following results were obtained: 1. Under the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 with included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2: "Abstentions" "Abstentions" " 21 Members of the National Assembly, except for "Acceptances" and "Abstentions." 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 by the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u183	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At its meeting held on 1 November 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva, Minister of Justice, and Mr. Stoyan Stoyanov, Secretary General; from the Ministry of Finance, Directorate of State Expenditures... Mr. Vladimir Petrov, Director, Mrs. Asya Parvanova, Mrs. Stela Boyadjieva and Mrs. Marinela Davidova, Senior Experts; from the Supreme Judicial Council (WCJC), Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev, Chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council, Mr. Sevdalin Mavrov, Member of the Supreme Judicial Council and member of the Committee The draft budget of the judiciary for 2018, prepared by the Supreme Judicial Council, was presented by Mr. Boyan Magdalenchev and Minister Tsetska Tsacheva presented the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the same project. As regards the revenue side, the proposal in both projects is to reduce their size compared to 2017 by 9 million. BGN, or 116 million is envisaged. lv. Revenue from the activities of the judicial authorities, of which 102 million lv. it is intended to be revenue from judicial fees. On the cost side, in its project, the Supreme Judicial Council proposes a total cost of 629.2 million. BGN, of which 590.2 million lv. for running costs. The Council of Ministers, taking into account requests by the Supreme Judicial Council to secure the payment of remuneration and social security to the persons employed in the judiciary, provides for an increase of 25.4 million. lv. the total cost compared to 2017, or a total of 590,4 million. BGN aimed at increasing the funds for staff. With regard to the texts proposed by the Supreme Judicial Council to art. 2 of the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, the Council of Ministers supports the proposed version of para. 4, para. 5 and para. Article 7 2. The Council of Ministers supports, in principle, the proposal of the Supreme Judicial Council for the editing of para. 6, by offering its precision. About para. 8 The Council of Ministers does not support the proposal of the Supreme Judicial Council. Mr. Magdalinchev pointed out that the proposed draft budget for the judiciary for 2018 did not provide for expenditure on current maintenance and capital expenditure on management and management of buildings, as well as expenditure related to the remuneration of magistrates and judicial officers from specialized courts and prosecutions. Ms. Tochkova expressed her support with regard to the Inspectorate's budget to the Supreme Judicial Council, supported by the Supreme Judicial Council, and stressed that the amount of funds proposed by the Council of Ministers would provide only the funds for salary and compulsory social contributions, but no funds for capital expenditure and technical security of the activities entrusted by law are provided. Ms. Tsacheva urged the MPs to support proposals from the Council of Ministers draft budget for the judiciary for 2018, and between the first and second votes to make a proposal to increase the basis for determining additional remuneration for specific activities, according to art. 62 of the State Budget Bill 2018 During the discussion took part the MPs Philip Popov, Danail Kirilov, Yavor Bojankov, Maria Ilieva, Krum Zarkov, Christian Mitev and Yordanka Fikirliyska. Mr. Popov, Mr. Bojankov and Mr. Zarkov said they will only support the draft budget of the judiciary, drawn up by the Supreme Judicial Council and will not support the State Budget Bill for 2018, proposed by the Council of Ministers, with Mr. Popov noting the existence of underfinancing in certain areas. Mr. Kirilov said that a key priority in funding is investing in magistrates, and the State Budget Bill for 2018 itself is programme-oriented and specifically targeted in individual programmes and projects. Mr. Mitev noted that one of the main achievements in the bill is the low rate of non-compliance in the expenditure section between the proposal of the Council of Ministers and the Supreme Judicial Council. In conclusion, Mr. Kirilov summarized that he hoped that, in reaching agreement between the first and second votes, proposals would be made to secure the need for additional remuneration in the judicial authorities related to the posting and with regard to the capital expenditure of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, as well as on the clearance of the base under art. 62 of the Bill. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 7 votes for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017, including a draft budget of the judiciary drawn up by the Supreme Judicial Council; - with 13 votes for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017, including a draft budget of the judiciary with the opinion of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u184	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. It will be introduced to you by the President of the Commission of the National Representative Petar Kanev. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u185	♪ I can't believe on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At its regular meeting held on 1 November 2017, together with the Energy Commission and the Revenue Agency Monitoring and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling... [[Noise and lines on the left.]] Mr. Chairman, make them a note!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u186	Please, one more time who wants to talk, don't let him in the room!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u187	The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee examined the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by: Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance; Emil Karaniklov, Minister of Economy; Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism; Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, Representatives of the relevant ministries, Customs Agency, National Revenue Agency, CNSB and non-governmental organizations. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Kiril Ananiev. The main priorities of the state budget for 2018 are continuing reforms in the education sector; health; defence and security; social policy and holding the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Under the budget of the Ministry of Economy for 2018, Minister Karanikolov pointed out that revenue was laid down, amounting to 26 million. BGN, which is 1 million. Ninety thousand. lv. More than the planned revenue for 2017 Under the budget of the Ministry of Tourism for 2018, Minister Angelkova pointed out that revenues of 9 million were laid down. 754 thousand. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social In the course of the discussion by the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria.................................................................................... National Representative Hristo Prodanov asked Minister Angelkova why, against the background of announced revenues from concessions, fines and sanctions, the allocated revenues in the budget of the ministry are so few. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 1. Under the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 with included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2: no............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017, together with the updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2018-2020, representing reasons for the draft Law and the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the draft budget of the judiciary for 2018. [[Applause on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u188	Thank you, Mr. Kanev, for a exemplary presentation of a report in a summary, despite your colleagues' attempts on the left side of the room to negatively influence you during the presentation. [[Radio.]] Following is a report from the Commission on Religions and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At its meeting held on 2 November 2017, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights discussed a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Marinela Davidova, Chief Expert at the Department of State Expenditures and the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Anna Dzhumalieva, Chairman of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, Mrs. Petya Parvanova, Chairman of the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers, Mr. Emil Velinov, Director of the Directorate of the Ministry of Religions and representatives of non-governmental organizations. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Ms. Marinela Davidova, who introduced the MPs to the general framework and priorities in Budget 2018, focused on the sectors of education, health, defence and security, social policy, holding the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. For the institution Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria is provided a budget of BGN 2 974 000, with BGN 24 000. more than the 2017 budget, Mrs. Maya Manolova noted that the activity has increased repeatedly, with the number of complaints this year compared to previous years growing nearly twice. This requires a corresponding capacity and resource. For the Ombudsman's function as a National Preventive Mechanism in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as for fulfilling the obligations related to the protection of children's rights, with monitoring the expulsion of foreigners and refugee camps, more qualified experts are needed. Mrs. Maya Manolova said she supports the State Budget Bill for 2018 in the part of "Ombudsman", noting that next year a human resource with high professionalism, experience and responsibility will be needed. For the Commission for Protection against Discrimination the estimated costs are BGN 2 570 000, with BGN 70 000. more than the 2017 budget, Ms. Ana Dzhumalieva thanked for the increase in the budget for 2018, but said that the funds placed are not sufficient for the effective functioning of the Commission as an independent body for prevention, control and protection against discrimination. In relation to the report by the European Commission against racism and intolerance, the Commission is obliged to open and manage regional offices in all district centres of the country. Ms. Dzhumalieva said that there is a great turnover of qualified staff and in order to keep the same fund, it is necessary to increase the salary. The subsidy granted for religions registered under the Religions Act is of the same amount as 2017. 5 000 000 000 leva, but there has been a change in the allocation of funds by feathers. For the Bulgarian Orthodox ecclesiastical municipalities abroad are divided BGN 1,200 000.; for repair and construction of temples and monasteries of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in the country - BGN 2 610 000; for repair and construction of prayer homes of the Muslim religion in the Republic of Bulgaria - 400 000 BGNFor repair and construction of temples and monasteries of the Catholic Church in the Republic of Bulgaria 60 000 BGNFor the repair of synagogues and support of the religious community of Jews in the Republic of Bulgaria 60 000 BGN.; for repair and construction of temples of the Armenian Apostolic Orthodox Church..................................................................................For repair and construction of prayer homes of other registered religions in the Republic of Bulgaria 100 000 BGN.; for repair of prayer homes.. monuments of culture. 300 000 BGN, and others. Mr. Emil Velinov said that he supports the 2018 budget in the part of "Religion" and believes that the funds allocated are sufficient. He informed the MPs that 230 churches, 45 mosques, 18 prayer homes of other religions were renovated and abroad: the renovation of the church was completed in Istanbul. A new temple was built in Vienna, and construction is to be built in Johannesburg and Madrid. At the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers, the budget for 2018 is planned at 8 500 000 BGN, with an increase of 500 000 BGN compared to 2017. The budget forecast for 2018 amounts to BGN 12 000 000 000. The forecast was developed on the basis of expanded reception capacity and forecast migration flow to the Republic of Bulgaria. Ms. Parvanova noted that the Agency's needs depend on the dynamics of the migration flow. She pointed out that by mid-next year, a large part of the costs of salaries and social security, food, medicines, fuels, energy, security, translators and ongoing major repairs are borne by the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund. A small part of the allowance and 280 000 leva. capital expenditure shall be borne by the budget. Regardless of extending the time limits of the grant agreements showing solidarity to Bulgaria as a first-line country, the funds are only sufficient to cover the costs until July 2018 and after that period the expenditure is at the expense of the state budget. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Krasimir Velchev, Pavel Shopov, Vasil Antonov, Valentina Naydenova and Yordanka Fikirliyska. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights with 9 votes in favour, 6 votes in opposition and 1 vote in abstention proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017..........................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u190	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. The report of the Energy Commission will introduce us to the people representative Delyan Dobrev, President of the Commission. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u191	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At its regular meeting on 1 November 2017, the Energy Commission, together with the Committee for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling and the Economic Policy and Tourism Commission, discussed and voted on a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Mr. Kiril Ananiev Deputy Minister, Mrs. Vesela Daneva Director of the Department of State Aids and Real Sector........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, presented the draft budget of the Ministry of Energy and Policy for 2018. The policy is aimed at sustainable and competitive energy development. It will be implemented with the help of a number of measures resulting from European and national strategic documents establishing conditions for secure, efficient and environmentally friendly energy and increasing the potential for economic growth. The main aspect of the policy is diversification of natural gas routes and supplies; ensuring the country's energy security by increasing its local production of energy resources, developing concession sections and developing new ones, through a concession for exploration and extraction of oil and gas and liberalising the energy market with a view to ensuring affordable and secure energy for consumers. In the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 the revenues amounted to 173324.2 thousand. lv. Revenues were reduced by 81,675.8 thousand. lv. compared to 2017, which is mainly due to a reduction in the forecast revenue collected under the Ordinance on the Organization and Control of the Implementation of the National Investment Plan 2013 The expenditures provided for in the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 amounted to 98673,3 thousand. lv. An increase in staff costs is envisaged by 853.0 thousand. lv. The draft budget of the Ministry of Energy for 2018 includes an increase in the subsidies and capital transfers of the state enterprise. lv. for the Fund "Radioactive Wastes" and the Fund "Exhibition of nuclear facilities." In order to implement policy in the area of Sustainable and competitive energy development, the 2018 budget project provides for expenditure of 94427.6 thousand. lv. The strategic goal of policy is to create conditions for secure, efficient and environmentally friendly energy. In order to achieve this objective, three operational objectives are set as follows: - guaranteed security of supply in competitive energy markets; - efficient and environmentally friendly energy development; - effective management of energy resources. Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, and Mr. Borislav Stanimirov, Deputy Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, said that the proposed budgets satisfy their demands and will be able to carry out their activities qualitatively. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, including a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2:.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2:............................................................................................................................................................................. As a result of the vote, the Energy Committee shall propose to the National Assembly: 1. The draft State Budget Act for 2018, including a draft budget of the Supreme Judicial Council under Article 1, and Article 1, shall not be adopted in the first vote. 2. 2. To adopt at first vote the draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 702-01-38, submitted on 30 October 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u192	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government follows. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Your attention is: ♪ I can't believe on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At a regular meeting held on 2 November 2017, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. Mr. Nikolay Nankov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Director of the Directorate of Finance of the Municipalities, experts from the two ministries and representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria took part in the meeting of the Commission. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, who presented to the MPs information on the general framework of the budget, the forecasts of the three-year budget forecast and paid detailed attention to the provisions of the Bill in its part on the relations between the central budget and the budgets of the municipalities. Budget policies with regard to municipalities are aimed at expanding the opportunities for their sustainable and balanced development, improving efficiency and improving the quality and scope of activities at local level. The main challenge for municipalities is continuing actions for financial recovery of municipal finances and bringing fiscal indicators and rules for debt and financial situation in line with the requirements of the Public Finance Act. A total increase in municipal own revenues is envisaged in relation to the trend of the increase in proceeds from property taxes, municipal fees and incomes and property incomes. The reports are positive in line with the mechanisms of interaction between the central and local authorities, as well as the improvement of the management and administration systems for local taxes and fees. Additional positive effects on municipal own revenues are expected as a result of action being taken to improve their collection. The relative share of municipal expenditure for 2018 reaches 5.2% of GDP and the share of local expenditure is estimated at 48.4% of the total costs of municipalities. The relative share of municipal expenditure in the overall cost structure reached 14.3%. An increase is envisaged in the size of the main budgetary relations between municipalities and the central budget for 2018 by 382.7 million. BGN, including: for the total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State by the State by 357,7 million. lv.; of the interest rate subsidy by 10,0 million lv.; of transfers for winter maintenance and snow cleaning by 5.0 million lv.; the target subsidy for capital expenditure lv. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nikolay Nankov presented to the Commission the draft budget of the Ministry and information on the funds provided for in the project on the main policies, programs and activities carried out by the Ministry. The Minister paid attention to the funds provided for in the Project for the implementation of the activities of the Road Infrastructure Agency, the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency and the National Building Control Directorate, pointing out the reasons why the respective areas are forecast to increase or decrease expected revenues. In conclusion, Minister Nankov summarized that the budget provided for the Ministry is balanced, giving policy opportunities in the relevant areas, but insufficient to meet expectations in certain activities. In the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria are proposed to increase transfers in certain activities. The reasons and the specific amount of the necessary additional funds for municipalities are detailed in the minutes of the consultations on the Draft Law signed between the Minister of Finance and the Association. An increase in funds for municipal administration, municipal road funds has been proposed by increasing the overall target subsidy for capital expenditure, additional resource for the poorest municipalities, for the social services delegated by the state, for municipal hospitals in the hard-to-reach areas and for the development of the common planning plans. During the discussion the MPs raised a number of questions related to the different parameters of the budget to which the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development responded. Attention was paid to the issues related to the possibilities for the realization of sites in road infrastructure, the energy efficiency programme and the renovation of residential buildings, as well as to the proposals of municipalities to increase transfers in certain activities. In support of the opinion of the municipalities was also expressed disagreement with the approach to proposing changes to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration through the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill, without their prior coordination with the Association of Municipalities. Proposals were made between the two votes of the Bill to seek additional mechanisms and opportunities to provide additional funds both for certain activities carried out by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and for municipalities, taking into account the specific characteristics of the formation of the budgets of individual municipalities, with a view to ensuring the necessary financial resources for municipalities to operate independently in the following year. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 11 votes......................................................................... and 7 votes..................................................................................................................................................................... 1 and 2 to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u194	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you are, Mr. Ademov, to brief us on the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, submitted by the Council of Ministers The bill was presented by the Minister of Finance Mr. Vladislav Goranov. The priorities in the 2018 budget are focused on measures related to: continuing reforms in the sector of Education; defence and security; social policy; health; holding the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2018. As regards the 2018 budget programme of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, it is located in the following assumptions and parameters: For a minimum wage, the average budget forecast for the period 2018 - 2020 provides for an increase of BGN 460. BGN 510. from 1 January 2018; on 560 BGN from 1 January 2019 and from 610 BGN from 1 January 2020 The minimum monthly amount of insurance income for self-insuring persons according to their taxable income shall be respectively: - in 2018 amounting to BGN 510, 550 BGN, BGN 600, BGN 650• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - in 2019 of BGN 560, BGN 600, BGN 650, BGN 700• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - in 2020, amounting to BGN 610, BGN 650, BGN 700, BGN 750.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • The maximum insurance income of all insured persons of BGN 2600 is maintained. for the entire period. The amounts of family aid for children and the amount of monthly average income for access to family aid for 2018 are as follows: - average monthly income of a member of the family for access to single help during pregnancy, one-time assistance for students enrolled in the first grade, and monthly benefits for raising a child until one year is over.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - average monthly income of a family member for access to the full amount of monthly support for raising a child up to the end of secondary education, but not more than 20 years of age• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the amount of monthly support for raising a child until secondary education is completed, but not more than 20 years old, for the twin children - BGN 75 for a child; - the amount of monthly support for raising a child until the end of secondary schooling, but not more than 20 years of age, for a child with one living parent, the full amount of aid; - the amount of single help during pregnancy - 150 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - amount of single help at birth: 250 BGN For the first child, 600 leva. For the second child, 300 leva. for a third child and 200 leva. for the fourth and each subsequent child; - the amount of single help for raising twins - BGN 1200 of a child; - the amount of one-time support for raising a child by a mother, adoptive mother, student, student in regular form of education £ 2880.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • The programme budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is structured in 7 policies and 16 programmes, including the program................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In 2018, policies will be implemented in the areas of employment, labour relations, social protection and equal opportunities, people with disabilities, social inclusion, living level, income and demographic development, free movement, migration and integration. The funds for active policy from the state budget in the National Employment Action Plans remain at 73 million. lv. In the field of social assistance policy is proposed an increase of the guaranteed minimum income from 65 to 75 BGN, which will have an effect on monthly social benefits, one-off aid under the Social Assistance Act and the target heating aid. For the service, a personal assistant, social assistant and home helper will be provided 68 million. 395,000. 300 leva. On a monthly basis, these services will benefit from 23,400 disabled persons and persons over 65 years of inability to self-service, through the part-time appointment of nearly 16,600 personal assistants, social assistants and household assistants. Monthly support for a child with permanent disability is for 26,625 monthly average children, and the necessary funds for them are 161 million. 103,000. BGN 960. The total expenditure for 2018 for all ten measures under the Programme "Supporting families with children" will amount to 568 million. 683 thousand. lv. Following the completion of the presentation of the draft Budget 2018, a discussion took place, attended by MPs Hasan Ademov, Kalin Popovski, Mikhail Hristov and representatives of employers', trade union and pension organizations. Upon completion of the discussion, a vote with results shall be held: 1. Under Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, including a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under Art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017: no votes for the Council of Ministers and 19 votes abstention. 2. Under Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017: 11 votes for the Council of Ministers, 7 votes against the Council of Ministers, 1 vote abstention. On the basis of the presentation, discussion of both votes with these results, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee adopted the following opinion: it proposes to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on October 30, 2017 "Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u196	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. The report of the Committee on Foreign Policy follows. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u197	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe On Draft Law No 702-01-38 on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At a regular meeting held on 1 November 2017, the Committee on Foreign Policy of the National Assembly examined the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 in its part for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The draft budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2018 was presented by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva. Zdravko Bechev Chief Expert at the Directorate of State Expenditures. The Ministry of Finance briefed the Commission on the general framework and priorities of the budget 2018. For the purposes of programming budgeting and given the administrative functional distribution in the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, eleven programmes are formulated to achieve greater accountability in three policies: A strategic policy objective for the development of an effective diplomatic service is an effectively functioning and adequately secured administration. The operational objectives are developed in two programmes: "Administration and provision of the diplomatic service" and "Management of foreign missions and support of Bulgarian citizens abroad." A strategic goal of public diplomacy policy is to generate a favourable internal and external environment, ensuring successful implementation of the foreign policy programme and its priorities. The operational objectives of this policy follow the general and specific objectives of public and cultural diplomacy and are defined in two programmes: The strategic goal of the policy of active bilateral and multilateral diplomacy is to develop and defend successive national positions through coordinated, targeted and systematic actions. The policy objectives are developed in seven programmes: The Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 defines: revenue, expenditure, transfers and subsidies from the central budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The main parameters in the 2018 budget project in its part for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are as follows: - own revenues amount to 55 million. 190,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • - costs of 125 million. Ninety-seven thousand. £400.• • • • • • • • • - The subsidy amounts to 70 million. 850,000. 900 BGN, of which 70 500 BGN for transfers between budgets and accounts for EU funds. The allocation of expenditure on policies and budgetary programmes shall be confirmed as follows: - Policy on the development of an effective diplomatic service Eight hundred and 500 leva.• • • • • • • - Public Diplomacy Policy - 805 thousand. £400.• • • • • • • • • - Policy in the field of active bilateral and multilateral diplomacy - 21 million. Two hundred and 500 leva. The maximum costs that may be borne in 2018 and the maximum cost obligations that may be incurred in 2018 by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which amount to 101 million, shall be confirmed. 431 thousand. £400. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. BGN, which cannot be spent for other purposes, and not more than 5% of these funds can be used to administer the aid. In order to ensure the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, additional funds of 6 million have been provided. 900,000. lv. above the cost ceiling set by Council of Ministers Decision No 281/2017 as follows: - Three million. lv. to provide additional support for long-term missions of employees abroad; - One million. Five hundred thousand. lv. ensuring that the changes related to the Ordinance on travel funds under an overseas mandate in force from 1 January 2017; - One million. 900,000. lv. implementing decisions to open new diplomatic representations; - Five hundred thousand. lv. implementing audit recommendations to improve the energy efficiency of the Central Governance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In line with the implementation of the central budget and in connection with the future procedures for the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the cooperation and development organisation, additionally for the period 2018 - 2020 is envisaged from the central budget to provide 5 million. 106,000. 851 lv. By Decree of the Council of Ministers No 67 of 5 April 2017 for 2018 funds of 2 million were provided. Three hundred and fifty thousand. lv. for the external dimension of the Communication Strategy, the cultural programme and expenditure related to the personnel management of embassies in third countries in relation to the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Following the adoption of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 and the Decree of the Council of Ministers for its implementation, another 1 million are expected to be provided. Four hundred and sixty £700. to further secure the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs related to the preparation and implementation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 8 votes in favour, 5 votes in opposition and 1 vote in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that the bill be adopted in the first vote. No 702-01-38 for the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Following is a report from the Defence Committee. He will introduce us to the President of the Commission, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u199	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At its meeting held on 2 November 2017, the Defence Committee discussed the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. The meeting was attended by 20 MPs. The meeting was also attended by the Deputy Minister of Defence Mr. Anatoly Velichkov, the Chief of Defence and Lieutenant General Andrey Botsev, the Permanent Secretary of Defence Mr. Anton Lastardzhiev, and the Director of the Directorate of Planning, Programming and Budget. A representative of the Ministry of Finance was state expert Marusya Grbacheva. The Chairman of the Defence Committee pointed out the advantages of Budget 2018, its importance as a basis for achieving the objectives of the updated medium-term budgetary forecast for the period 2018 In his exhibition, Deputy Minister of Defence Anatoly Velichkov noted that after four years of freezing significantly increased personnel costs in order to create conditions for motivation and professional selection of staff to fill part of the non-completion of the Armed Forces. Along with this is reaffirmed the defence policy related to the maintenance of modern and combatable armed forces, continuing the modernization of the Armed Forces under the Program for the Development of Defence Capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Funds are provided for the investment projects of the Air Force and the Navy. For the implementation of modernisation for the period, funds of 1 billion are envisaged. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty, BGN, of which: 678 million lv. for a new type of fighter with an estimate of 226 million. lv. For each year, 513 million. lv. for the acquisition of multifunctional patrol ships for the Navy with an estimate of 171 million. lv. for every year. Thus, the overall defence expenditure for 2018 reaches 1,55% of gross domestic product, which is growth compared to the previous year, which is a good reason for the Ministry of Defence to support the draft budget for 2018, to call on the Defence Commission to adopt and vote on it. In her statement, the representative of the Ministry of Finance Mrs. Grbacheva pointed out that in accordance with the Program for the Development of Defence Capabilities adopted by the National Assembly in 2015, the requirement that the means of defence should not be lower than the level of the approved minimum for the sector was met. In addition, she noted that additional funds from the central budget for 2018 are intended to build the state communication system and provide payments to cover the accumulated deficit of the Military Medical Academy over the years. The following debates were attended by the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Kolyo Milev, Nikolay Tsonkov, Milen Mihov, Simeon Simeonov, Petar Vitanov, Georgi Andreev and Hristo Gadzhev, who united around the opinion that with an increase in staff costs by 10,22% the defence budget for 2018 represents an important step forward compared to 2017. During the discussion, the continuing practice of planning staff funds in the Ministry of Defence's budget was pointed out as a major obstacle to filling the staff's non-completion, only to the actual staff available and not to the established staff of the Ministry of Defence. Some of the MPs noted that the Draft Law on the State Budget also did not take into account the amendment on the basis of determining the basic monthly remuneration, which does not correspond to the minimum wage and is an additional obstacle to predictable and more tangible increase in the incomes of the servicemen. In conclusion, the MPs, assessing and noting the merits of the draft budget in its defence unit, expressed their opinion that the additional funds, although substantial as a percentage of increase, would not immediately solve the accumulated problems in the Armed Forces over the years. However, the approach taken to increase defence spending more markedly and the continued increase of the Ministry of Defence's budget is a good basis for the development of defence capabilities and strengthening the country's overall defence potential. After the discussion was concluded, the Defence Committee adopted the following opinion: it proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October. 2017: "Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u200	Thank you, Mr. Popov. We are about to get acquainted with the report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. The next report is from the Committee on Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, to your attention, is: ♪ I can't believe on a draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017, No 702-01-38, together with an updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2018 - 2020, representing reasons for the Draft Law and the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the draft budget of the judiciary for 2018. At its regular meeting held on 1 November 2017, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed a draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017, No 702-01-38, together with an updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2018 - 2020, representing reasons for the Draft Law and the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the draft budget of the judiciary for 2018. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Marusya Grbacheva and Svetlana Tropcheva, state experts at the Directorate of State Expenditures"; by the Ministry of Interior: Valentin Radev The position on the submitted draft law on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 was presented by the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev. The draft budget of the Ministry of Interior provided a total of 1 billion. The Commission 400,000. BGN, which is 62.8 million. lv. above those established for the Ministry with the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. Of the planned current expenditure under the Draft Budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2018 The total amount of EUR 1 billion is estimated at EUR 1 billion. The Commission 653 thousand. BGN, 1 billion One hundred and Seven hundred and sixty-three thousand. lv. they're staffed. The planned increase in staff funds for 2018 is 55 million. lv. for the Ministry of Interior. For other current expenditure, 22 million remain. Seven hundred and forty-seven thousand. BGN, providing for an increase of 7.8 million. lv. above those established for the Ministry with the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. When presenting the draft budget of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, the President of the Commission Evtim Kostadinov clarified that total costs 3 million were provided. 480,000. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked Three hundred and forty-four thousand. BGN, and capital expenditure lv. The planned funds will fulfil the objectives and tasks set out for 2018. As regards the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, the Draft State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 provides for a budget of 2 million. 530,000. BGN, of which 2 million 280,000. lv. are for running costs. Mr. Karadjov supports the budget policy at stake, but draws attention to the indicator of staff and noted the entry of new activities in 2018 and 2019 with a new data protection regulation, which will require additional activities from the Commission. In connection with the construction of a training center for the renovation of the provided building, 1 million are needed. Five hundred thousand. BGN not provided for in the budget. The State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 concerning the budget of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data does not provide for additional funds to ensure the Commission's obligation to coordinate and direct the Working Group E.23........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ During this period, the Bulgarian government has provided for 4 meetings in Brussels, which will be attended by numerous preparatory meetings, as well as in the Member States, as well as in Brussels with the Council of the European Union Secretariat. We believe that the minimum necessary means to fulfil this obligation are 100 thousand. BGN, which should be included in the draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. The State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 on the activities of the State Agency "State Reserve and Wartime Stocks" provides for a budget of 40 million. 706 thousand. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. Seventy-six thousand. lv.; for staff, seven million. $475,000. lv.; capital expenditure? 1 million 396 thousand. lv. The increase is related to the increase in the minimum wage. It shall adopt the budget and the planned funds will meet the objectives and tasks set out for 2018. The discussion was attended by the President of the Commission Tsvetan Tsvetanov, who thanked the Ministry of Finance for having allocated funds for an increase in security and defence, while the MPs Ivan Ivanov and Krasimir Yankov expressed a position related to the need to discuss between the first and second votes to secure more funds in the sector. As a result of the debates held on the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, with 10 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour of the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017, No 702-01-38, together with an updated budget forecast for the period 2018 - 2020, representing reasons for the Draft Law and the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the draft budget of the judiciary for 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u202	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Following is the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, and after it we will hear from the Committee on Education and Science. Mr. Rykoff, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u203	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 1 November 2017, discussing the quoted bill. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests: Rumen Porozhanov Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and NGOs were also present. The main parameters in the part of Agriculture are as follows: According to the draft budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry for 2018, the projected revenue is 156,6 million. lv.The proposed cost ceiling is 210.1 million. BGN, of which: for staff lv.; for capital expenditure........................................................................................................ lv. According to policies and budgetary programmes, these funds are: for lv.; for............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. lv.; for the preservation and increase of forests and farmland............................................................................................ BGN, and In the context of the current costs of providing a public service to protect against the harmful effects of water, 17 million have been established. lv. and 1.7 million. lv. on the implementation of the activities of the Executive Agency "Sertification audit of European Agricultural Funds'. Under the draft budget of the State Fund................................................................................................. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement The cost ceiling is around 368 million. BGN, of which for subsidies and other current transfers to non-financial corporations lv. According to policies and budgetary programmes, these funds are: for lv.; for............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. BGN, and The bill established 84 million. lv. for the tax preference for a reduced excise duty rate on gas oil used in primary agricultural production. The VAT reverse charge mechanism for the supply of cereals and technical crops will be applied. The tax relief under Article will also apply. 189b of the Corporate Income Tax Act, which constitutes State aid to farmers. An increase of the minimum monthly amount of insurance income for registered farmers and tobacco producers is envisaged from BGN 300. Nervous system disorders Very common: very common (≥ 1/ 10,000 to < 1/ 10) very common (≥ 1/ 10,000 to < 1/ 10) very common (≥ 1/ 10,000 to < 1/ 10) very common (≥ 1/ 10,000 to < 1/ 10) very common (≥ 1/ 10,000 to < 1/ 10,000) very common (≥ 1/ 10,000 to < 1/ 10) £480. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry supports the bill despite the lack of funds to secure certain activities. In the subsequent discussion, the MPs from the parliamentary groups of the BSP for Bulgaria and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and Freedoms stated that they would not support the bill. From the parliamentary groups of the Political Party GERB and the United Patriarchs...................................................................................... After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods, with 11 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, 8 votes against the Council of Ministers, and 1 abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to support the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u204	Thank you, Mr. Rykoff. With the report of the Committee on Education and Science, the President of the Commission will introduce us to Mrs. Milena Damyanova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u205	♪ I can't believe on the State Budget Bill The Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At its extraordinary meeting held on 2 November 2017, the Education and Science Committee examined the above-mentioned Bill. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev, representatives of the academic community, trade union and civil society organizations, the national representative of the student councils. In the field of education and science policy, the bill was presented by Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, who stressed that the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 increased the costs of education and took the sector as a priority in government policy. The growth in education expenditure is aimed at: - mainly to increase the remuneration of pedagogical specialists in the system of pre-school and school education; - to a change in the funding of institutions, which will eliminate the existing inequalities between large and small schools and provide equal opportunities for educational institutions. The total estimated expenditure for education for 2018 is 3,840.2 million. lv. The priorities aimed at pre-school and school education policy are: - support the reforms and implementation of the measures laid down in the Preschool and School Education Act; - providing support for pedagogical specialists and attracting young people into the profession; - full coverage of all educationable children and students, prevention of dropping out of the education system and reintegration of early leavers; - improving the quality of education in all schools and levels of the system; - providing quality vocational education and training in partnership with business and compliance with the needs of the labour market. In the field of higher education and science policy, Minister Valchev explained that it is aimed at improving the quality of education through its financial encouragement and orientation to the practical needs of the labour market. The figures for higher education for 2018 increased by 27.9 million. lv. and their total amount reached 777.5 million. lv. The draft budget provided an additional 8.6 million. lv. to support the training of students on the basis of the results of the training and 9.0 million lv. for scholarships of students training in priority professional fields. The total amount of transfers provided for under the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science for state universities amounted to 414.9 million. BGN, to be distributed by element, according to art. 91 of the Law on Higher Education. National funding for education will continue to be complemented by EU Structural Funds in 2018. The 2018 budget also increases public funding for the science sector. The funds for science for 2018 are 405,8 million. BGN, at 285,0 million lv. for 2017 With the increase of the expenditure for science for 2018 an increase of the transfer to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Agricultural Academy by 5.9 million is provided. lv. The scholarship for PhD students increased from 450 to 500 BGN. The total amount of transfers to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for inherent scientific or artistic and creative activities and publication of textbooks and scientific works of state universities at the Ministry of Education and Science for 2018 amounts to 93.6 million. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. BGN, which will provide conditions for research in different areas of public life, for competitive project funding of research and others. The following discussion included MPs Anelia Klisarova, Irena Anastasova, Errol Mehmed, Stanislav Stanilov, Milen Mihov and Tanya Petrova, as well as representatives of trade union and civil organizations in the field of education, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Council of Rectors, the national representation of student councils. It was expressed that a better budget in recent years for pre-school and school education has not been discussed, teachers' salaries have been increased and the system of delegated budgets has been improved. It was said that only the increase in teachers' salaries would not lead to the required quality of education. It has been proposed to speed up the development of the standard of physical environment in order to distribute more fairly the means of improving the material base. Representatives of higher schools and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences supported an increased budget for pre-school and school education, but said that the increase in funds for higher education and science was not enough. The need for urgent measures was requested to increase wages in the sector and support young scientists. It was argued that the complex assessment of the quality of education in higher schools should be clearly expressed when allocating funds to them. Dissatisfaction with the amount of PhD funds was expressed and it was suggested that the PhD scholarship be tied to the minimum wage. It was highlighted that society should be convinced of the need to increase funds for science. There needs to be clear rules on the allocation of funds for science, on scientific fields, priority and competitive, financing projects of national importance. To all questions and opinions answered the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. After a vote with results:...... 11 votes.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. We are about to hear the Commission's report on children, youth and sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At its regular meeting held on 2 November 2017, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed the Draft Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasen Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sports, Mrs. Rositsa Dimitrova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Teodora Ivanova, Secretary General of the State Agency for Child Protection, and Mrs. Zoya Kasserova, State Expert at the Department of State Expenditure. Minister Krasen Kralev presented the draft for the state budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. He informed the MPs that in the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 the Ministry had determined expenditure of 75 732 300 BGN, which is an increase compared to the budget of 2017 by more than 2 million. leva. The funds allocated to the Ministry of Youth and Sports include BGN 9,600 700. for activities delegated by the State. These are the funds from the budget of the six sports schools. The allocation of funds is for the following defined policies: Sports policy for students and sports in leisure time The funds available for 2018 amount to BGN 16 354 000, which are distributed among the budget programmes "Sport for students" and "Sport in leisure time." Within these financial frameworks, after optimizing the costs of certain indicators, will be financially secured both for all approved and working children's, school and student programmes and for all new starters in 2015, 2016 and 2017 projects and programs to support children's and youth sports. Sport policy for excellence. The allocated costs for the implementation of the goals and activities in the field of sport for excellence for 2018 amount to BGN 50 479 700. This appropriation is intended to cover the sub-programmes for the development of sport for excellence, the development of sports clubs, the hosting of international sports competitions in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as the means of stimulating, rewarding and social support for athletes, including ensuring the lifelong premiums of Olympic medalists who have ceased active competition. In the general budget of the sport policy for excellence are laid down funds to secure the activities of the Antidopping Center and the laboratory for implementation the requirements for its licensing of BGN 1 278 700. A policy in the field of bringing sports objects and facilities into line with the current international standards will be conducted in 2018 with funds of BGN 3 289 800, which continue to be extremely insufficient to conduct an effective policy regarding the construction and renovation of sports bases. Policy in the field of absorption and implementation of good international practices for sport. The determined costs for 2018 amounted to 297 600 BGN. are designed to meet the policy objectives of good international cooperation and the development of European projects, which is key to providing additional funds for the implementation of the policies of the Ministry of Youth and Sport. In this regard, Minister Kralev expressed hope that the work of the representative of the Ministry of Youth and Sports during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the EU will contribute to achieving positive results in the protection of the Bulgarian interests at EU level in the field of youth and sport. Young people's policy. Within the established budget for the implementation of the objectives of this policy in 2018 of BGN 3 287 000. programmes for youth activities will be financially secured, to finance projects of non-governmental organisations in the sector. Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Rositsa Dimitrova presented this part of the draft budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which relates to the implementation of the policies falling within the Commission's competence: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. Six hundred thousand. lv. The aim of the programme is to provide financial support to families of children at risk and, in particular, to raise children in a family environment. The 2018 budget forecast was developed on the basis of the current data on foster families supported by the state budget and taking into account the fact that the implementation of the scheme.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The budget of the State Agency for Child Protection This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled 815 thousand. lv. is increased compared to 2017 by 400,000 BGN. Within the framework of the budget programme, Employment assurance and the improvement of the quality of the workforce of unemployed and employed persons in the mandate of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in 2018 will continue the active labour market policy for young people who are the priority target group of all programmes and measures appropriate to them. Measures implementing this policy shall include: - measures to implement the European Youth Guarantee 2014-2020, activation of economically inactive young people; - training and employment, including internships and apprentices of unemployed young people up to the age of 29. The activity of reaching young people who neither work nor study, but are not registered in the employment bureaus will also be activated. On the part of the Ministry of Health was presented in writing the budget programme "Medico-social care for children in disabilities" included in the draft budget of the Ministry of Health for 2018. The financial resources allocated to this programme for 2018 amounted to 23 million. 108,000. lv. is for long-term medical supervision, prophylaxis, diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation and specific care for children with chronic diseases kept in the rest, still not covered 16 homes for medical and social care for disadvantaged children from 0 to 3 years of age. Vesela Lecheva, Slavcho Atanasov, Theodora Halacheva, Stefan Apostolov, Ivan Chenchev, Dimitar Gamishev and Georgi Markov took part in the discussion of the draft 2018 budget. Questions were raised regarding some financial parameters of the individual budget programmes from the draft budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sport for 2018, to which Minister Kralev provided supplementary information. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of a 10-vote vote held, 8 votes against the Council of Ministers, and 1 abstention, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. We are about to get acquainted with the report of the Committee on Health. You have the floor, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u209	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At a joint meeting of the Budget and Finance Committee, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee and the Health Committee held on 2 November, The State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 was reviewed and discussed. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Finance Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Miroslav Nenkov, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Manager of NHIF Professor Kamen Plotchev, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, trade unions, employers, word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Mr. Vladislav Goranov, who introduced the MPs to the main financial parameters set out in the draft budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. The total estimated expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2018 amounts to BGN 495 244 200, which represents an increase of BGN 36 396 500. to the budget of the Office for 2017. These funds will finance activities, policies and programmes in the field of public health protection and control, activities under national health programmes carried out by the budgetary structures of the Ministry of Health, emergency aid and all other public health activities. Priority areas and activities will continue to be emergency medical care, e-health, mother and child health, assisted reproduction, medical claims for hospital care, as well as drug policy. The budget of the Ministry of Health will finance programmes and activities carried out by public health budgetary structures, emergency aid, stationary psychiatric assistance, medical and social care for children, treatment abroad and others. The planned financial resource will be spent to secure national programmes and central supplies for the prevention, control and treatment of socially significant diseases, to provide vaccines for compulsory immunizations and reimmunizations, as well as training for the acquisition of a specialty in the healthcare system. In 2018, the Ministry of Health will continue to provide a transfer to the National Health Insurance Fund to finance the costs of medicinal products and activities for their implementation under art. 82, para. 2, p. 3 of the Health Act, for activities for health uninsured persons, including activities for outpatient follow-up of patients with mental and skin diseases, in addition patients with intensive treatment, activities under art. 82, para. 1, t. 2 of the Health Act and the supplementary payment of the amount for visiting a doctor/meditator in dentistry and medical institutions by persons who have exercised the right to a pension for internship and age. After the discussion was closed, a vote was taken on the following results: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017:...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017: On the basis of the discussion and the vote on the above results, the Committee on Health suggests to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u210	Thank you, Mr. Genov. The report of the Committee on Environment and Water will introduce you to the President of the Commission. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u211	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At its regular meeting held on 2 November 2017, the Committee on Environment and Water examined at first reading the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Environment and Water: Neno Dimov - Minister, Atanaska Nikolova, Deputy Minister, Krasimir Zhivkov, Deputy Minister, Adriana Vasileva The Chairman of the Committee on Environment and Waters gave the floor to Maria Veselinova from the Ministry of Finance, who briefly presented the main points and priorities of budget 2018, including the Presidency of the Council of the European Union from Bulgaria in the first half of the 2018 Major priorities in fiscal policy remain the efforts to preserve economic and financial stability and create conditions for economic growth in line with the 2017 management programme. It stressed that the macroeconomic prospects are positive, which is taken into account by economic data, pointed out GDP data and forecasts, the preservation of the reserve in 2018 and the expenditure on the main functions of the consolidated fiscal programme, of which for housing, public works, community agriculture and environmental protection they amount to 2.2% of GDP. Minister Dimov presented the draft state budget, in the part of the environment and the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water as follows: by the draft law of the State Budget Act for 2018, the Ministry of Environment and Water defines revenue of 56,3 million. BGN, of which income from ownership BGN, revenue from state fees, mostly under the Water Act "55.5 million." BGN, proceeds from fines and penalties BGN, revenue from concession fees BGN, VAT revenue lv. and others - 0,3 million lv. The revenue includes staff, maintenance and capital expenditure, with the total expenditure set out in the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water for 2018 amounting to 49,8 million. BGN, at 46.0 million lv. n/ a The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee Of that 3.8 million. BGN 2,3 million lv. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Cohesion Fund, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment In total, 29 million. BGN, or 51% are staff costs, 18,3 million. lv. or 36,8% is the cost of maintenance and capital expenditure is 2,5 million. BGN, or 5,1%. Minister Dimov presented the estimated expenditures of the MoEW budget for 2018 by components as follows: for integrated water management and water protection................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. BGN, for the integrated system for waste management and conservation of the soils....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... BGN, to reduce the harmful emissions in the atmosphere and improve the quality of the atmospheric air BGN, for conservation, strengthening and restoration of ecosystems, species and their genetic resources BGN, information, participation of the public in the decision-making process and implementation of the control mechanism BGN 2,7 million for environmental impact assessment and management. lv. and for policy in the field of the National Environmental Monitoring and Information Security System lv. The Minister also pointed to the budget of the PDOOS, in which BGN 6 550 000. are own income and transfer from BGN 67 100 000, or a total of BGN 73 650 000 and the planned costs for 2018 amount to BGN 80 135 000, and the difference is covered by the stocks from previous years. The distribution by components is as follows: for management and protection of water 30 345 400 BGN.; Waste Management - 40 202 300 BGN; restoration of ecosystems, species and genetic resources; information, participation of the public in the decision-making process - BGN 1,800 000 and to manage the activities of climate change - BGN 450 000 Under the draft law, environmental protection policy for the forecast period 2018 - 2020 will be implemented through active interaction with other public authorities sectors contributing to water, soil and air protection, waste reduction and waste recovery, adaptation to climate change and efficient use of resources in the country's economic cycle. The efforts will focus on increasing the awareness and culture of the public in the field of the environment and ensuring public access to policy-making and implementing the principles of transparency, open governance, partnership and dialogue. The funds provided for the implementation of programmes to address the environmental damage caused by past actions or inactions in privatisation for 2018 amount to 5 million. lv. The cost ceilings of the MOEW are: 49 858.1 thousand respectively. lv. for 2018; 50 084.7 thousand lv. for 2019 and 50 388.6 thousand. lv. for 2020 Atanas Kostadinov, Dzhevdet Chakarov and Ivelina Vassileva took a position on the bill. People's representative Kostadinov pointed out that macrorama is not the subject of a debate in this Commission, but the part concerning environmental protection and water protection is being discussed and asked the Minister what cannot implement environmental protection policies and could be improved by setting requirements not only on flood prevention, but also on the requirements of the reporting directives, as well as on the cumulative effect of horizontal policies. He also raised a question about the possibilities of the Atmospheric Air, including in the field of waste management, which received an answer to both questions from Mr. Dimov, who stressed the importance of the problems of air cleanliness, as well as funding opportunities from other sources; the people's representative Dzhevdet Chakarov on the administrative burden and funding for staff who received a response from the Minister, including for the financing of staff under the Presidency of the European Union; the national representative Ivelina Vasileva, who expressed satisfaction that there is an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water, which can help increase wages in the ministry, which are below the average for administration and asked a specific question about the parameters of the Operational Programme Environment, by proposing in relation to the questions asked about the activity and funding from the POS and reporting on the directives, to be made a meeting of the Commission on environment and water to which the activities of both the POSOS and the Trusting Environment are to be presented. Mrs. Vassileva also asked an additional question about the Presidency, is there in this regard provided funds for the Ministry of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union or all the funds provided for are in the Ministry for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Mrs. Tsonka Dryankova responded in the part about the budget parameters of the Operational Programme lv. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. lv. In the case of the axis under consideration, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, for the axis of call The estimated cost is 9,145 million for the Natura 2000 sites and biodiversity. The planned costs are 18,542 million BGN, under Priority Axis 4, Prevention and problematic risk of floods and landslides. lv. and with regard to the measures to protect air cleanness, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. Minister Dimov pointed out that funds of 1,0 million were provided for the MOEW in relation to the Presidency. BGN and 426 000 BGN are provided to the Council of Ministers. for 121 environmental events. After the end of the debates and the vote on the bill, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 12 votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission supports the draft law and its indicators regarding environmental protection and water protection and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38 tabled by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Following is a report from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Who will present the report? After that we will hear the report of the Committee on Culture and Media. Here you are, Mr. Milushev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 1 November 2017, a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Dimitar Genovski, Mr. Veliko Zanchev and Mr. Angel Popov The main macroeconomic framework of the State Budget Bill for 2018 was presented by Mrs. Maria Veselinova. The programme budget for transport, communications and information technology was presented to the members of the committee by Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski, who stressed that the strategic goal of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications for building a sustainable transport system, a developed and viable sector of electronic communications and postal sector, as well as for technological development and innovation is achieved through the implementation and implementation of transport and information technology policy. Of the total expenditure for 2018, amounting to 2 billion. 131 million. 294,2 thousand. BGN 981 million is envisaged. 862,9 thousand. lv. to be provided by accounts for EU funds and other international programmes and contracts subject to the regime of European Union accounts of 893 million. 009,9 thousand. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 494.4 thousand. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the Nine hundred and twenty-seven thousand. lv. The Commission notes that the Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid After the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 11 votes for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u214	Thank you, Mr. Milushev. On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media. You're welcome to present the report. After that, we will hear the report of the Commission on interactions with NGOs and citizens' complaints.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u215	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. The Committee on Culture and Media at a regular meeting held on 2 November 2017 discussed the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. Representatives of the Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Finance, Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, Electronic Media Council, Bulgarian National Radio, Bulgarian National Television took part in the discussion. The Minister of Culture Mr. Boel Banov presented the budget of the Ministry of Culture. View of the state budget for 2018 took Mrs. Rositsa Spasova, Head of Department of State Expenditure Directorate of the Ministry of Finance. The draft budget of the Ministry of Culture for 2018 provides for own revenues lv.; cost frame of 175 028,4 thousand BGN, of which for current expenditure are 168 344,7 thousand. lv. and for capital expenditure 6,683,7 thousand. lv. The expenditure of the Ministry's budget shall be aimed at the implementation of: - policy on the protection of movable and immovable cultural heritage; - policy on the creation and promotion of contemporary art in the country and abroad and access to quality artistic education; - the budget The estimated amount of the central budget for the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency amounts to 4 852.6 thousand. lv. and is intended to finance activities which the Agency carries out as a national independent information institute of the Republic of Bulgaria. The State Budget Bill for 2018 provides for an amount of 1 million revenue for the Electronic Media Council. 200,000. BGN, costs of 1 542.6 thousand lv. The State Budget Bill for 2018 provides an amount for the Bulgarian National Radio of 42 336,8 thousand. lv. The costs of the BNR are to fulfil the main objectives of the public operator for the preparation, establishment and dissemination of national and regional radio programmes. The capital expenditure under art. 70, para. 4 t. 2 of the Radio and Television Act amounted to 3 million. 900,0 thousand. lv. For the Bulgarian National Television in the State Budget Bill for 2018 the amount is 65 397.4 thousand. lv. Capital expenditure, including under art. 70, para. 4 t. 2 of the Law on Radio and Television amounted to 8 100,0 thousand. lv. The funds for BNT are mainly for the creation and distribution of the national programs BNT 1, BNT 2, BNT HD, BNT The world and regional programs. Paragraph 5 of the Law on the State Budget for 2018 has been postponed for the next time by § 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, para. 1, para. 2 and para. 4 of the Law on Radio and Television, 2018 and 2019 respectively. During the discussion the MPs Vejdi Rashidov, Diana Savateva, Stanislav Stanilov, Krasimir Bogdanov, Chavdar Velinov, Nona Yotova and Alexander Simov were asked questions. The Minister of Culture answered the questions in detail. On the part of BNR and BNT, the issue of the need to increase funding for public media was raised. After the discussion was concluded, a vote with the following results was held: 1. Under the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 with included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. Under the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2:....................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Culture and Media proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Mr. Kutev, you are welcome to brief us on the report of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Mr. Kutev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u217	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 At its regular meeting held on 2 November 2017, the Commission on Interaction with NGOs and Citizens' Complaints examined the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October. This Decision shall The meeting was attended by Mrs. Evgenia Orlova, Chief Expert at the Department of State Expenditures. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Evgenia Orlova. The State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 is accompanied by the updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2018 - 2020. Key objectives continue to be the preservation of fiscal sustainability and the implementation of consistent, transparent and predictable fiscal policy. In the submitted draft state budget for 2018 in its part for non-profit legal entities, subsidies and other current transfers to non-profit legal entities: Total planned funds under the consolidated fiscal programme for non-profit legal entities amount to 207 024 thousand. BGN, or with 23,907 thousand. lv. More relative to This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to Under the state budget,.. 68 245, 3 thousand. BGN of which: - on the central budget of 11 642 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - included in the budgets of the ministries and departments lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • The Municipalitys of 64 043 thousand. lv. basic subsidies for Chitalishtes; According to National Fund, 43 221 thousand. lv. to finance projects with beneficiaries of non-profit legal entities (EU Funds) under the European Funds; State Fund.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. lv. Under the central budget for 2018 the funds (subsidies and capital transfers) for NGOs are provided for and named by Annex 4 to art. 51, para. 1 and Annex 5 to art. 51, para. 2 of the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 and amounted to 12 642 thousand. lv. (as referred to in Annex No 4 s) 11 642 thousand. BGN, and under Annex No 5 lv. for capital transfers of the Bulgarian Red Cross). The total amount of the subsidies of the NUCL under the central budget for 2018 is maintained compared to 2017, with the exception of the subsidy of the Bulgarian Institute for Standardization, where there is an increase of 100 thousand. lv. The main group of legal entities is the national representative organizations of and for people with disabilities (on the basis of Art. 52 of the Law on the Integration of People with Disabilities). In total, the funds provided for this group of legal entities amount to 4 359 thousand. lv. The application also includes the subsidies of the Bulgarian Red Cross (Bulgarian Red Cross), the National Council, the Union of the People's Chitalishtes, the Rila Holy Monastery (Rila Monastery), the Troyan Storopigial Monastery (Bulgarian Studio), the Bachkovo Monastery (Bachkovo Monastery), the Assumption of the Mother of God), the National Donor's Fund of 13 centuries Bulgaria (Bulgarian Institute of Standardization), the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage, etc. The funding of the organisations in the Annex shall be carried out in accordance with the provision of art. 4 of the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities under conditions and by order laid down in the relevant special laws. The funds provided for shall be intended to support and finance the implementation of the relevant activities and policies. In 2018, the amendments to Art. 1 will enter into force. 4 of the Council of Ministers, according to which the establishment of the Council for Civil Society Development is envisaged. In one of the Council's activities, it is committed to allocating funds to promote and financial support to projects of public importance of NGOs registered for public use activities. With art. 4, para. 8 of the NUCLC provides that these funds are planned and spent on the state budget. The funds are planned under the central budget, but as the Council is about to set up for the first time, the adoption of its rules of procedure, as well as the approval by the Council of criteria, conditions, rules and procedures for assessing the projects and the allocation of funds, the funds will be provided by the Council of Ministers under the Public Finance Act. The 2018 State Budget Bill spoke to MPs Krum Zarkov and Milena Damyanova, who expressed their views on the list under Annex No 4, concerning subsidies and other current transfers for non-profit legal entities and non-financial corporations from the central budget for 2018. According to them, the more precise criteria and justifications for inclusion in the list will be possible in 2018, when changes in the ZULNC come into force. After a debate, opinions and opinions were held, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints with 7 votes.............................................................................. and 2 votes.................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u218	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. The report of the Commission on the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics follows. The report will introduce us to the President of the Commission, the MP Boris Yachev. Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017 The Committee on the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics at its regular meeting held on 2 November 2017 examined the first vote Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No702-01-38, submitted on 30 October 2017 by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance Mr. Vladimir Petrov, Director of the Directorate of State Expenditures and the Commission for the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests Mr. Nikolay Nikolov, Deputy Chairman, and Mrs. Diana Kunzova Director of the Directorate of Finance and Administrative Service; by the Commission for the Acquired Property. Mr. Plamen Georgiev President, and Mrs. Trifon Trifonov Secretary General of the Commission. The bill was presented by Mr. Vladimir Petrov. He pointed out that one of the main priorities of the Ministry of Justice is the implementation of legislative changes to create conditions for curbing corruption at all levels of government. Mr. Petrov emphasized on the budget of the current anti-corruption units, making it clear that with the adoption of the new anti-corruption law they will all flow into a single body, which should function seamlessly with the scheduled parameters. It has also been clarified that there is no substantial change in the size of the budgets of the two main committees, the CONPI and the Commission, for preventing and establishing a conflict of interest. During the debates, Mr. Nikolay Nikolov was heard by the Commission to prevent and establish conflict of interest, which expressed some reservations about the budget presented in the Commission's maintenance part, based on the increase of the minimum wage, which, respectively, generated all costs up. Mr. Plamen Georgiev from the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property assessed the planned budget of 6 million. 226 thousand. BGN as extremely insufficient for the work of the Commission led by it. He noted that it will finance the main activities, but the volume of work has increased significantly and it is necessary to appoint young people without experience, with low wages due to lack of funds. This way, according to Mr. Georgiev, risks losing hundreds of millions of levs, which the Commission currently leads, and on the other hand, resource security with staff would seriously increase the quality and effectiveness of the Commission's work. According to the bill the MPs Boris Yachev, Slavi Netsov, Kristina Sidorova, Simeon Simeonov, Spas Gurnevski, Simeon Naydenov and Milko Nedyalkov were involved. After the discussion, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission with 6 votes against the Council, without abstentions and 4 votes for the Council did not support the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 in the first vote. No 702-01-38, submitted on 30 October 2017 by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u220	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Following is the report by the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. It will be introduced to us by the President of the Commission, the People's Representative Christian Vigenin. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At its regular meeting on 1 November 2017, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. The bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. An expert opinion on the draft was made by Mrs. Manuela Milosheva Director of the National Fund Directorate at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Ivan Ivanov Director of the Directorate of Central Coordination Unit in the Administration of the Council of Ministers and Ms. Milena Penevska State Expert in the same Directorate. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018: Ms. Tanya Mileva, Head of Political Office, Mrs. Siya Nikolaeva, Secretary General, Ms. Mariana Kitova, Chief Accountant. The State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, which is accompanied by the updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2018 - 2020, provides for the following parameters under the consolidated fiscal programme: Revenue, aid and donations: 38 223.9 million lv. (36.2% of gross domestic product (GDP); Expenditure (incl. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. lv. (37.2% of GDP); Deficit: 1,100 million. lv. (1,0% of GDP). The projected GDP at current prices for 2018 amounts to 105 609 million BGN, with real economic growth expected to be 3.9%. I am missing some of the information in the report as it will be attached to the official opinion of the Budget Committee. In view of the specific nature of its activity, KEVKEF examines the parameters of the 2018 state budget project concerning the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union budget for 2018, as well as the planned revenue and expenditure under the European Union funds. Contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union budget for 2018 Our country's main financial commitment to membership in the European Union is expressed in the national contribution to the European Union budget. For 2018, it is planned to be 1,33.9 million. lv. This forecast was drawn up on the basis of the new Council Decision on the system of own resources of the European Union 2014/335/EU, Euratom, which entered into force after it was adopted by all Member States. With regard to the contribution, the following circumstances should also be taken into account: In the process of implementation of the EU budget, it is possible to impose a change in the amount of increase or reduction in the contribution of Bulgaria due to the impact of the following factors: the additional or unforeseen needs of funds under the European Union budget in the implementation of expenditure policies; a change in the amount of other EU revenues outside the own resources; a change in the amount of traditional own resources collected from all Member States; periodic updates of the data for previous years on the harmonised VAT base and on the gross national income of the Member States with a view to achieving greater accuracy in the calculation of their contributions, etc. The forecast presented is based on the assumption that the United Kingdom will be a full member of the European Union during the entire period 2018 - 2020 or, in the case of an actual withdrawal from the Union, will continue to pay its due contributions to the European Union budget in accordance with the legislation in force and the legal commitments made during its membership. In this regard, the forecast is based on the assumption that there will be no changes in both the expenditure and the revenue side of the European Union budget in this regard. The reason for this is the fact that negotiations on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom have not been completed at the moment and the results of the agreement on leaving the European Union are not clear, which should be concluded under art. 50 of the Treaty on European Union. European Union funds planned revenue and expenditure for 2017 It is envisaged that the aggregate amount of revenue, aid and donations under the European Union funds for 2018 will be 2 327,5 million. BGN, or 2.2% of the forecast GDP. These include accounts for funds from the European Union of the National Fund, FF......................... and other international programmes and contracts to which the regime of accounts of the European Union applies. The estimated aggregate costs for 2018 under European programmes and projects amounted to 4 224,4 million. lv. or 4% of GDP, including 2,881.8 million. lv. European funds "2.7% of GDP" and 1 342.7 million. lv. National co-financing of 1.3% of GDP. National fund. In planning the costs of operational programmes co-financed by the European Social Fund, the European Regional Development Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Aid Fund for the Most Deprived and the bilateral cross-border cooperation programmes at the external borders of the European Union, the new rules for the 2014-2020 programming period, the implementation phase of each of the programmes, the specificities of the supported sectors, as well as the nature and deadlines for the implementation of the individual projects have been taken into account. The experience of the launch of the 2007 programming period is analyzed and the conclusions drawn are taken into account in the preparation of the current forecasts. In this regard, the total revenue of the National Fund for EU Funds for 2018 is estimated to amount to 1 460,4 million. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. lv. 2.5% of GDP. The planned revenue for the period 2018 - 2020 under the operational programmes co-financed by the European Social Fund, the European Regional Development Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Aid Fund for the Most Deprived and the bilateral cross-border cooperation programmes at external borders of the European Union include the identified indicative amount of expenditure expected to be reimbursed by the European Commission during this period. The estimated revenue has been calculated taking into account the following features: 90% of the cost of operational programmes corresponding to the European co-financing carried out in the last two months of the previous year. Under the rules of the European Commission, only the payment applications that the Member State sends by 31 October will be guaranteed to be recovered within the year in which they are sent. For this reason, all payment applications expected to be sent after that date are planned to be received in the following year; 90% of the cost of operational programmes corresponding to European co-financing carried out during the first ten months of this year; up to 10% of the amount of certified expenditure in the previous accounting year expected to be reimbursed by the European Commission in the annual clearance of accounts. The preliminary annual funding expected to receive/restore Bulgaria after the annual clearance of the accounts. With regard to the expected revenue, the temporary retention of reimbursements by the European Commission under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" will result in a significant shift over the period of reimbursement, which will be certified only after the deficiencies in the management and control systems of the operational programme have been corrected. The total revenue of the State Fund is estimated to amount to 582.6 million on the European Union fund account for 2018. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. lv. "1 per cent of GDP." In accordance with the first pillar of the common agricultural policy, funds will be paid to support farmers under production-linked direct payments and market support schemes. The single area payment scheme in 2018 provides for the use of 1,551,4 million. lv. direct payments to farmers, payments on behalf of the EU. Under the second pillar of the CAP, funds for rural development will be paid for 2018. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, of which 967.2 million lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. National co-financing. The funds that our country plans to absorb under EU programmes and pay for the Common Fisheries Policy for 2018 are 38.3 million. BGN 29,6 million lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. national co-financing and advance payments. The updated medium-term budgetary forecast for the period 2018 - 2020 estimated revenue, expenditure and corresponding co-financing from the State budget under other accounts for EU funds and funds under international programmes and contracts to which the European Union's financial accounts regime applies. The reports are drawn up on the basis of the proposals of the authorising officers with a budget for expected revenue and expenditure, including for their co-financing under the various international programmes, projects and contracts, such as the European Fund For 2018, the planned revenue amounts to 284,6 million. BGN, and the costs of 511,2 million. lv. In the subsequent discussion Mr Vigenin raised a question to the importers as to whether the risks related to European funds in terms of loss of funds and possible financial corrections were envisaged in the budget. Ms. Marinela Petrova assured that this type of risk is envisaged and possible losses of funds will be recovered from the budget of the relevant office responsible for the programme. Mr. Ivan Ivanov explained that sufficient funds are provided to ensure that our country provides the necessary national contribution to the European programmes. Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva requested information when a final confirmation is expected from the European Commission on the implementation of the Programme period 2007 " 2013" and whether additional receipts are expected or all payments from the Commission to the State have been completed, she also raised a question to Mr. Ivanov regarding risk management in the event of a possible release of funds. Ms. Milosheva replied that at the moment there is not one completed and closed by the European Commission operational programme from the past programming period for any of the Member States. She explained that there are still non-functioning projects, and in order to pay off the balance of our country, all projects should function. In response to Mrs. Vasileva's question, Mr. Ivanov informed that there are also options for transferring funds from one programme to another, but this requires more time and it is assumed that such an option should start earlier than other possible hypotheses. Mr. Ivanov explained that such a type of measure, if accompanied by a logical justification, could be supported by the European Commission, but the measures to be transferred should not be fundamentally different from each other. As a result of the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds with 2 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria and 5 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly not to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u222	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. The Commission's report is indeed the most comprehensive. Mr. Lazorov, let us know about the report of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence tools and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u223	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At a meeting held on 2 November 2017, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications discussed and examined the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. The meeting was attended by the Brigadier General Svetoslav Daskalov, Director of the Military Information Service, Mr. Dragomir Dimitrov, Chairman of the State Agency, Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency, Mr. Boyko Rashkov, Chairman of the National Office for the Control of Special Intelligence Funds; Mr. Tsvetan Kitov, Chairman of the State Agency, Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers; representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Defence. During the debates, the MPs expressed their views in support of the bill and such regarding the need to increase the funds provided for expenditure. The possibility of targeted funding of the security services was also discussed. After the discussion held with 4 votes, 3 votes against and without abstentions, the Commission proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u224	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. We still have the reports of two committees. First we will hear the report of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Policies of the Bulgarians Abroad on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At its meeting on 1 November 2017, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad discussed a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 in its part on Policies towards Bulgarians Abroad. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Todor Stoyanov The draft budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was presented by Mr. Stoyanov, who said that the export of consular days is about to increase and reduce the administrative burden of our compatriots abroad. From the Ministry of Finance Mr. Ivaylo Tanev summarized the information about the draft budget in its part concerning the policy towards Bulgarians abroad and announced that the budget of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad (SPA) will remain unchanged. The draft budget of the Ministry of Education and Science was presented by Mrs. Vanya Balcheva, who stressed that budget funds of 13 million are provided for Bulgarian communities abroad. 169 thousand. BGN 177. From the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad Mr. Krasimir Tomov explained that an additional 10 state figures are needed. During the discussion the President of the Commission and the MPs discussed the issues of providing funds for the programme for support of Bulgarian organizations and media abroad. After the discussion, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad with 9 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, 5 votes against the Council of Ministers and 1 vote abstention proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u226	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. We remain to get acquainted with the latest Commission report on monitoring revenue agencies and combating the grey economy and smuggling. Here you are, Mrs. Sabeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u227	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. At its regular meeting on 1 November 2017, the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling, together with the Energy and Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism, discussed and voted on a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, No 702-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Vesela Daneva, Director of the Department of State Aids and Real Sector, Mrs. Verginia Yoncheva, State Expert at the Department of State Expenditures, Mr. Ivaylo Novev, Director of the Directorate of National Fund (National Fund) and Mr. Ivan Borisov - State Expert at the Department of Strategic Analysis, Assessment and Forecasts in the Directorate "Strategic Analysis and Forecasts" and by the National Revenue Agency (NAP) Mrs. Milena Krastanova, Deputy Executive Director, Mr. Plamen Dimitrov, Deputy Director of the Directorate of the Directorate of the Ministry of Finance. The draft was presented by Mr. Kiril Ananiev, who briefed the members of the Parliamentary Committee on the general framework and priorities in the 2018 budget, focused on measures related to the continuation of reforms in the sectors of Education, Defence and Security. The focus was placed on the funds invested in the draft budget to ensure the subsequent increase in efficiency and fiscal impact of the control activities of the National Staff Revenue Agency of 299 million. 274,000. lv. to increase his numbers by two hundred state numbers. This is directly related to the performance of the functions assigned to it with the amendments adopted to the Law on excises and tax warehouses, which extend the scope of the Agency's activities, given the treatment of a certain type of fuel as high fiscal risk goods. It also provides 44 million. 618 thousand. 100 leva. for activities in the field of the protection of society and the economy against financial fraud, the smuggling of goods, money laundering and terrorist financing. The funds provided are aimed at ensuring conditions for the functioning of the administrations with a view to implementing the activities assigned to them and tasks related to the implementation of the internal and foreign policy of the country in all their aspects, including funds for the Bulgarian development aid, payment of the membership in international organisations, establishment and operation of a sustainable system to achieve maximum efficiency in the collection of taxes and social security contributions, reduction of corruption, improvement of the quality of administrative services, improvement of customs control, the fight against customs and currency violations, smuggling and others. In the discussion of the bill took part the MPs Dragomir Stoinev and Valentin Nikolov. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, including a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2: without votes for..... 1 vote against.... and 17 votes abstention............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2: 11 votes.......................................................................................................... As a result of the vote, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposes to the National Assembly: - not to adopt the draft State Budget Act for 2018, including a draft budget of the Supreme Judicial Council under Art. 1 and Art. 2. - to adopt in the first vote the draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art.1 and art.2, No 702-01-38, submitted on 30 October 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-08.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Sabeva. Honourable Members of Parliament, the report which has just been heard has concluded the presentation of the reports of the parliamentary committees on the subject. Four of our weekly program. According to the Programme, which we adopted at the beginning of today's meeting, we are running out of work today. Our work continues in the next meeting on 9 November 2017 at 9:00 with further discussions on this issue. 4. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
