ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly work programme of the National Assembly: Draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria on 9 November 2017. In the course of the debate on the draft decision provided for in the programme, the parliamentary control provided for in the Programme will begin after the end of the debate, if this occurs after 11.00. Otherwise, the control begins at 11.00. Please vote. 200 MPs voted: 185, against 1, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Before I give the floor for a statement on behalf of the parliamentary groups of the.................................................................................................................................................................................... In relation to the proposed proposal to include a new item in the programme, I propose that the proposed candidate for Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev be admitted to the Chamber. Please vote. Vote 191 MPs: 186 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday and the other day we were looking at the most important laws for the next year. The budgets of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Borisov was absent. We're renovating the office today at his suggestion. We have questions for him. What did you have to do with this shift? Mr. Borisov is absent again. As Prime Minister, he's not here in this chair. I ask that he be invited, that he be obliged to attend the National Assembly. What other more important obligations does the Prime Minister have than being here when proposing a new minister when the Minister of Health resigned when the National Assembly has issues with this cabinet repair? Let Mr. Borisov be good enough to come here and answer to the MPs and to the whole of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I will contact Prime Minister Borisov and present your invitation. Here you are, Mr. Volen Siderov, for a statement on behalf of the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, we cannot fail to mark today's historic date November 10th. Every year on this date I read all sorts of comments, usually written by people who have neither experienced the events nor know exactly what happened, but write bravely. Usually on this date, we take stock of what we have achieved in 27 years of transition. Since I have experienced some of these events, I will first say a few words in personal terms about how I welcomed November 10th. I worked at the National Museum of Bulgarian Literature and learned at noon that Todor Zhivkov resigned from a colleague of the informal associations who worked in the press. I went to my office and I said to the party secretary, "Congratulations, you have a new secretary-in-chief!" I, the ordinary, ordinary citizen, didn't party tell my party secretary that there was a new secretary general. But I had already written the article "Is it Bulgaria?" which was broadcast in the summer of 1989 on Free Europe. Because, imagine, in the then Constitution, I discovered that there is no text on which the Head of State is being released. In 1971, they had made a Constitution and introduced the figure. However, the Constitution could not be accessible to anyone, as it is now, it was a hidden work, apocryphal. When I found it and read that the Head of State could not be released, I was so impressed that I wrote this article. Later, late President Zhelev said: "Bravo, I heard it on Free Europe, I liked it very much and keep it that way! I went on like this and in January 1990 we did in. The round table began and the round table itself. The opposition had already been born in Bulgaria. It was called the SDS. It was called the Union of Democratic Forces. I'm going to tell you another memory because it's a sign through personal, through private we're making a path to common. On November 18th, when it was the huge big rally, from which every year pictures of Radoy Ralyn, Angel Wagenstein and others appeared in the newspapers in front of St. Alexander Nevsky, a few days before this rally I and some of my colleagues from informal associations, literary circles, human rights companies and so on gathered where? We were invited to Angel Wagenstein's apartment. It's at the corner of the Moskovska and Rakovska. You can see the whole square from the balcony. There, on Mr. Wagenstein's balcony, I saw the posters lined up, which the next or the next day would have been erected in the square. From this memory you can conclude who manipulated, orchestrated and directed everything that was then called the People's Excitement and the emotions of the rallies at that time in Sofia. At the round table, we remember that the chiefs of the UDF then "Petko Simeonov and Zhelyu Zhelev" boasted that they had pulled over, so they said: "We pulled over the demands of the communists to talk about economic issues." Can you imagine what naivety or collusion, perhaps a combination of the two we have pulled off the economic topics?! So we're going to talk about the pentagrams, we're going to take them down, we're going to talk about depolitization, we're going to talk about disassembly of the totalitarian system, that was the expression. I recently heard here from colleagues from a parliamentary group that they want to disarm the government and nationalists. Watch out, guys, 'cause when we disintegrate, the whole structure could collapse and bury us! That's what happened with the disassembly of the totalitarian system. So we dismantled it, and it collapsed and buried everyone, and along with the dirty water, we threw the baby away. There were good things about socialism, there was a well-functioning health care system, we will now talk about it, there was an education system and other social benefits. There was no freedom of speech, there was no number of other positive things, which now have them, political pluralism and so on, as well as, of course, freedom to travel abroad. But now these freedoms are linked to the financial opportunities of the people. Most people simply do not have a financial opportunity to use their freedom to travel abroad. So there's no total happiness. The point is that we had to do the analysis of what happened in those 27 years. I'm still waiting for this analysis, he hasn't yet come up with a calm, objective, moderate and real analysis of what happened. The mistakes we made during this transition, because in this transition we were told from the outside that everything must be privatized and the state is a bad owner. We could hear those words all the time. Now, in this government we do so to see that the state can also be a good owner, only there is no way that six months of management of the Patriots and GERB to replace, to delete the mistakes of 27 years of transition.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u5	Twenty-eight.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u6	If it's 28, it doesn't matter. In any case, it is a very long time, during which not only mistakes, but also deliberately leading Bulgaria to destruction and damage had it mostly under pressure from the outside and with the help of the inside. As you know, fortresses always happen by surrendering from the inside. But the pressure was external. And on 10 November the power in our country was changed under the pressure of foreign ambassadors, and now, at the moment, foreign ambassadors are telling us what to do, yelling at us from the TV screen, waving their finger or coming here to tell us which energy project to do or not to do. So one of the first mistakes of the transition that we may need to correct is not to listen to so many foreign ambassadors. Our role in the cabinet is exactly that of the Patriots to influence in this direction. We haven't been able to get a majority so large that we can force it all of a sudden, but we're affecting it in this direction. I think we have a positive influence in this regard to be more self-sufficient in our thinking, because Bulgaria is always out of influence from the outside. Recently, we were again discussing a statement by a foreign foreign ministry, which caused outrage. I would like any statement that affects the Bulgarian national dignity to provoke such a reaction. Then we'll really be a country of respect. During these 27 years, a transition has been imposed and we have been told that we must privatize everything, regardless of the price and now, after 27 years, we come to the decision, a few days ago, the Political Council of the ruling coalition decided to make a team of lawyers who will work out a special law or amendments to the laws so far, which will enable a revision of privatisation to be made, because without this revision we cannot conclude that we have made a mistake, and this revision will show this. It can't be any other way, since we haven't forgotten how the national airline was sold at the price of a SUV.. 150 thousand. The dollar. I've written dozens of articles, I've dealt with it. It is not just me and other people to this day that remember this most Christomatic illustration of looting privatization. There are other very large examples. There are also large metallurgical combines for one lev sold and others, and others. All this accumulated in the minds of the Bulgarians, as a crime for which there is no punishment. Now the ruling coalition "GERB" and "United Patriarchs" come to the conclusion that there should be sanctions for this privatisation. Then we will see where corruption started, how it was played out and how it was used over the years, by whom it was used, whether from parties that existed since 2005, from 2007, long before the privatisation began, or from parties that existed well before that. I also include this formation, which in 1990 started with such a hope.................................................................................................... Unfortunately, there was nothing left of her and she could not find her ideological base to step on conservatism, patriotism, national responsible policy and to start leading the country in this direction. It didn't work out, so history has called on the stage parties that are patriotic or centre-right who have no part in privatization, which are now trying to correct these mistakes. I'm gonna go over this again, and I'm gonna sum it up with this. In six months or even six years, there is no way to correct the mistakes and crimes committed in 27 years. So let us be more calm and objective when assessing a governance. Let us also be aware in today's debates, which we will now start with regard to the new minister, that so the sport of hulking, for the sake of its own hulking, has led us to bear in mind today that this transition has failed. Let's learn from these mistakes because for the next 27 years, it's just biologically not going to allow us to be back on stage and repeat these things. Let us now correct the mistakes that we have made, so that generations after us can make our sons and grandchildren in cleaner territory, to build a better Bulgaria. Long live Bulgaria! Good luck to the Bulgarian Parliament! [[Applause from OP and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Second affidavit? Here you are, Mr. Karadayi, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today is Friday 10 November, an occasion to take account of the anniversary of the beginning of the change in Bulgaria. Despite attempts to neglect, forget or underestimate 10 November remains a symbolic date in the Bulgarian democratic calendar as the beginning of democracy, rule of law, market economy, respect for human rights. The formal condemnation of the communist regime, the crimes of the communist regime, including the revival process, is not enough. We are witnessing how still misunderstood, unconscious and uncondemned remain unacceptable manifestations of an anti-human ideology, even in this House, especially in this National Assembly. Despite attempts to rewrite and rewrite the events that symbolize November 10, 1989, are a direct consequence of other events that gave birth to the great protest. These are events related to the so-called "renaissance" process, the so-called "great excursion" which banished nearly half a million Bulgarian citizens from the homeland. The violent change of the names of Bulgarian citizens, partly in the 1970s and 1980s, reached its peak in 1984 with the change of the names of all ethnic Turks, including those who died. The revival process is the largest crime on ethnic basis in Bulgarian history. November 10th has a direct link to the Mayan events in 1989, with peaceful protests in defence of the basic human rights bloodied by power, with a fierce attempt to preserve itself. Immediately after the violent change of names, the protests of the Bulgarian Turks and Muslims began in defence of the right to name, language, self-determination, freedom of religion. These protests do not go unnoticed by progressive and democratic Europe, by all progressive humanity. As well as the greatest forced exodus since World War II in peacetime, where hundreds of thousands have been expelled, forced to abandon livelihood, home and homeland. November 10th has a direct link with the Conference on Human Dimensions in Paris at the end of May 1989. To this Conference a Declaration was sent by our Honorary Chairman Dr. Ahmed Dogan, written in prison and exported illegally. Already at this Conference, and then in Copenhagen in 1990, it is stressed that respect for rights and freedoms and the rule of law is the foundation of democracy. Although the changes do not immediately take place "November 10, 1989 is a prerequisite and condition for the subsequent democratic changes in the country. The beginning is marked by the cancellation of the notorious art. 1 of the Constitution of the People's Republic of Bulgaria, the release of political prisoners, with the return of the names and registration of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. In the beginning, the DPS said: "No to rematchism! " and since then it has worked steadily and consistently for unity, for a single civil nation. The DPS was and remains a guarantor of peace and stability in the country. This historical period is related to a specific historical concept...... Bulgarian ethnic model. This model, such as inspiration, ideology, philosophy and creation, belongs to Dr. Ahmed Dogan and is inextricably linked to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, embodied in the main documents of our party. The political matrix of the Bulgarian model for solving ethnic problems implies real integration, not autonomy. The Bulgarian model includes concepts such as peace, balance, tolerance, dialogue, agreement, equality and partnership. The model is based on respect and respect for the rights of every Bulgarian citizen, the rights of minorities in the country. This model has made Bulgaria an example of a successful solution to interethnic conflicts at the beginning of democracy, unlike many of our neighbouring countries, and in a region often defined as a powder keg. The Bulgarian model had to and succeeded at the beginning at a faster pace, in recent years more and more elusive, to ensure the possibility in Bulgaria, in a peaceful environment to develop the process of democratisation through a multiparty system, guaranteeing the electoral rights of all Bulgarian citizens, in defence of rights and freedoms, the right to a mother tongue and the right to religion. The foundation of the Bulgarian ethnic model is the understanding of the nation as a collection of all citizens of the state, regardless of ethnic and religious differences. The nation is a set of people united by the will for common sovereignty. The Bulgarian ethnic model is an exceptional achievement, given the peculiarities of Balkan nationalism. Without ethnic and verbal tolerance, integration of ethnic and religious communities in civil society cannot be carried out. The Bulgarian ethnic model is not a given, something guaranteed. This model needs confirmation and its implementation to the full extent, so consensus is needed and requires tolerant attitude between all members of the nation, regardless of origin, religious affiliation and other differences, not least the refusal and categorical denial of hatred and aggression. Along with the Bulgarian ethnic model DPS has another merit in the face of its creator Dr. Ahmed Dogan. Already at the dawn of democracy formulated the country's historic mission to take a worthy place in the European family. Dr. Ahmed Dogan said Bulgaria's path to membership of the European Union is going through NATO membership. Indisputable are the merits of the DPS for the country's membership in NATO and the European Union regardless of the knowledge or recognition of the facts. What's the picture today? Today, instead of achieving democracy, we see hatred, aggression, division and opposition, erosion of statehood, stability, erosion of trust in public authorities and institutions. We are witnessing bad messages from the government to society and to Europe. The goals of the revival process continue with other methods. There are many examples. Just a few: Last week's civil registration law, mother tongue study and use, and a number of other examples are available. What country do we want to live in with the denial of the Bulgarian ethnic model, through the inclusion of nationalists in power, or we want to live together, in a country of nationalists, chauvinists, fascists, a country of hatred, aggression, division and opposition, or in a country of unifying patriotism, in the spirit of Levski's covenants for the Clean and Holy Republic, in which all are equal both Bulgarians and Turks and Jews. We of the DPS and our constituents have a clear and clear answer. We are consistent, for peaceful prosperity in our homeland. As a party sensitive to human rights and freedoms issues, democracy and the European future of the country, peace and stability in the country and the region, the DPS responds to any threat to democracy and stability. It can't be any other way. Let no one get the illusion that putting the DPS in one category with the nationalists will change the facts. The DPS preaches tolerance and togetherness, but strongly opposes the breakers of democracy and stability in the country. The DPS for this ideology pays no small price, but will not give up those values that make it a Euro-Atlantic, democratic and national responsible party. The DPS is just today, marking the anniversary of November 10th, paying attention to the biggest political party in the National Assembly to learn lessons from historical lessons, not to close the way to its European development and not to risk the success of the European Presidency. For us, European Presidency is important, but even more important are peace and stability, they are a condition without which we cannot as citizens, society and state. Today's mistakes can have severe consequences for the future of our country. The reluctance, I hope, is not the inability to listen to the voice of reason, ladies and gentlemen of GERB, to understand the responsibility you bear in front of future generations and to assess the seriousness of the situation will soon come to fruition. Nothing relieves you of responsibility, and no one can and will not take it away from you. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, we of the DPS cannot and will not be tolerant to nationalists, chauvinists, radicals, extremists and the like. It minimizes the future of the country. They breed hatred, they sow division and are a threat to the country, to Europe and to the future. [[(Comments from GERB: The Search! Time!]] This is a quote from a Spanish politician regarding the processes that are developing in Spain. The DPS will continue to pursue its policy to preserve ethnic peace, to create stability in the country and the region, to secure citizens both firmly and firmly, and we will work against everything that threatens democracy. [[(Comments from GERB:]] Mr. Chairman, I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today is Friday 10 November, but it is not 1989. If in 1989 the start of change was given, let today be the beginning, the new beginning of mandatory and inevitable changes in the name of democracy and our common future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. [[National Representative Philip Popov wants the floor for procedure.]] Please come in for a procedure. Prior to the procedure, as I made a commitment, the Prime Minister is currently holding a meeting of the Security Council under his leadership to update the security programme in relation to and the National Security Advisory Council held with President Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this regard, it is my procedure. Under the National Security Council regulations, there should be and should in principle be the Minister of Defence who is here, the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but they are not on this Council. I do not know what National Security Council is taking place after the ministers are here and Mr. Borisov is absent again. Please, if we are to interrupt this meeting for a moment, the Council will be completed. Maybe another ATM went off tonight, so they're doing this Council. [[(partial applauses from the BSP for ……]] And order the Minister here to answer our questions. With what motives, because here in the decision of the proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u11	Which minister should I order?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u12	With what motives does this change offer to the Ministry of Health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u13	Which minister do you propose to attend?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u14	Prime Minister Boyko Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u15	Are you proposing to interrupt the meeting?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u16	Until the minister arrives.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u17	Are you proposing?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u18	Yeah, I'm making her an offer. I'm asking you to invite him back and make him an obligation to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u19	We are voting on the proposal made to interrupt the sitting. Please vote. Vote 184 MPs: 86, against 95, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. You want a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group? You have the floor for a statement on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, Dear Ministers! November 10th is the date on which not only was the next plenary of the Central Committee of the Bulgarian Communist Party, but the date on which the democratic development of Bulgaria was launched. This date, as well as the subsequent events, is the result of the gigantic political process that led to the collapse of state socialism in Eastern Europe and to the creation of prerequisites for democratic transition in the countries of the former socialist community. Bulgaria did not make an exception and there was no way to make an exception to this transition. And here all those who believe that there is a link between the external and internal political factors that led to the change have their reasons. The Bulgarian Communist Party, the ruling party according to the then Constitution, faced the challenge of making changes in the direction of democratic development of the Bulgarian society, in the direction of building a multiparty political system, in the direction of revision of the mistakes that have been made in the past decades of Bulgaria's development and in the creation of prerequisites for the transition of the functioning of our state on the basis of new constitutional foundations and principles. It was a gigantic task. Historical circumstances imposed quick, brave and deep decisions. The Central Committee of the Bulgarian Communist Party made a series of important decisions. I'm going back to the story to get back to the facts. A report on the decision of the Central Committee of the Bulgarian Communist Party to investigate the distortions during the transition and to establish the actual state of the Bulgarian economy and the external debt by November 1989 was prepared for the decision of the Central Committee of the Bulgarian Communist Party to investigate the distortions during the transition and to establish the actual state of the Bulgarian economy and the external debt by November 1989, a political change was made in the leadership of the Bulgarian Communist Party and a new party leadership was elected. In April, the name of the party from the Bulgarian Communist Party of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and the Bulgarian Socialist Party was changed with its new program and with the dialogue that was built with the then opposition, the Union of Democratic Forces, created during the round table negotiations, created the prerequisites for Bulgaria's transition to a new constitutional order. The main challenge facing the Bulgarian state in the last months of 1989 and the beginning of 1990 was the preservation of constitutional and legal order in the country, the preservation of civil peace, because in the conditions of the beginning of the transition there were radical movements and radical political forces, which set themselves for the purpose in their political programmes the implementation of an act of historic revenge, of revenge, of physical quarrel with political opponents and opponents. This was a huge danger that Bulgarian society and state would be thrown into severe clashes, including a fatal outcome. As a result of the round table agreements, the joint decision was reached, I stress, the joint decision between the then Bulgarian Communist Party and the opposition, in the face of the parties that constituted the Union of Democratic Forces, to convene a Grand National Assembly and to develop a new Constitution of the country. In this sense and as a summary of this first part of our transition, I think it would be objective to say that the Bulgarian society, together with the ruling party, showed the necessary intelligence, the necessary balance, the necessary historical responsibility and managed to avoid the most dangerous and risky moments that the political situation at the time assumed. He moved on to the peace transition in Bulgaria. This is the main achievement, I think, of the politicians, of the political parties, which started building the democratic political system in Bulgaria after November 1989. The peaceful transition in Bulgaria is an achievement which was sealed with the drafting of the 1991 Constitution. I stress that the Grand National Assembly was the result of an unprecedented act of consensus between political forces, which in their platforms often professed radical political views and radical ideas. The achievement of this consensus was a common effort and every attempt these difficult months for Bulgaria, these difficult decisions to be revised and on them to complement the assessments for the subsequent failures of the Bulgarian transition are unjustified. The Bulgarian Constitution since 1991 is the state, political and constitutional framework of the Republic of Bulgaria. This Constitution has continued for 26 years to create opportunities for the development of Bulgarian democracy, for the strengthening of the multiparty system and for the functioning of the Bulgarian state of modern, modern principles of the state constitutional structure and of the liberal state. In 1991 the radical elements, radical movements in the Bulgarian Parliament, which openly preached a boycott of the draft Constitution and who left the Grand National Assembly, were born. We cannot turn a blind eye to these emerging political radicals. What did radical political forces and radical transition politicians propose? They proposed not to adopt a Constitution; they proposed elections to be held in Bulgaria until the full victory of the democratic forces was achieved; they suggested that a 100 per cent privatization should be held in Bulgaria, regardless of the actual state of the economy; they suggested that the first government of the democratic forces should be introduced in Bulgaria; they proposed that the collective character of Bulgarian agriculture should be destroyed through the implementation of the Law on the Restitution of the Land. All these proposals of the radicals, of the extreme political forces in Bulgaria, some of them were realized, one part came across the resistance of the majority of the democratic Bulgarian citizens. In 1997, the Greek authorities submitted their comments on the opening decision. The most critical moment, I think, for the Bulgarian transition, was defeated the Bulgarian Parliament and Bulgarian parliamentaryism was put to the test. In these years Bulgarian democracy did not just survive, it established itself. The right hand then showed reason and did not succumb to the calls of radical political forces to ban political parties. We should remind ourselves that the slogan for banning political parties was raised several times during the Bulgarian transition. Within the transition, there have always been radical political attitudes bordering on political extremism. And here, it seems to me, is the second major achievement of our political development in the last 27 years, namely the isolation of radical political elements, which in the course of the Bulgarian transition craved for another society, craved for another state, craved for the destruction of constitutional order. [[The President signals that time has expired. Noise and lines by GERB.]] Economic change cannot be isolated from the Bulgarian transition. She was part of it. It is about the famous of all privatisations or the passage of huge in their material nature and financial dimensions state property. The historical truth is that it was privatized in the second government of the right with Prime Minister Ivan Kostov with an underestimate of the material assets and with the implementation of the forced privatisation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u21	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u22	You're running out of time for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u23	It's no coincidence at this time...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u24	It's a very long theme, we'll drive by after lunch! You've been talking for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The subject is long and extremely serious. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u26	You're two minutes behind schedule, you're gonna have to...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u27	During this time organized crime flourished, which has permanently entered Bulgarian political life over the years. She reached out to her financial... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u28	Mr. Jablyanov, I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u29	Why take away my word, Mr. Chairman? [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u30	If you don't know why, then it's just unnecessary to...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u31	Could you ask Mr. Tsvetanov to...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u32	I can ask you to leave the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u33	Well, then I'm gonna ask you for one minute to conclude.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u34	There's not a minute!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u35	The insolences in this room are justified. I beg you, Mr. Jablyanov, to leave the stands! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'm asking you to leave the stands so I don't take your word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u36	Mr. Tsvetanov took the liberty of making remarks at the time...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u37	Mr. Jablyanov, I take your word for it! [[National Representative Valeri Zablyanov speaks in off microphones.]] Don't force me to ask the Quaestors for assistance to remove you from this room! [[Voices: "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria". Noise and lines.]] I'll bet you do. Please, there are rules, I'm sorry. Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Jablyanov! You are part of the management of the Bulgarian Parliament. We have rules on the organization and activities of the National Assembly. If each of us violates these Rules, what legislative authority are we talking about? So a statement that is ten minutes should have a limit of ten minutes. We can't say in a 13-minute declaration that we have to finish by one more minute. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u39	What was the DSS's declaration?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u40	Mr. Chairman, please be objective and follow the Rules of Procedure and the organisation of the Forty-fourth National Assembly! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u41	I accept the remark. Draft Decision on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please be quiet in the hall! Sit down, Mr. Stoinev! Here you go, Mr. Zarkov. Take your seats! Please take your seats! I won't give you the floor, Mr. Zarkov, until the MPs take their seats in the Chamber. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I take the floor in the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman, and I address you with a request: You are the President of the Bulgarian Parliament. Don't let anyone, whoever he is, yell at you and tell you with that tone what to do and how to lead the meeting! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We want objectivity.. 13 minutes was the previous declaration! Dear Mr. Chairman, you are the first among equals, you are the first in this Constitutional Party. You! Don't let anyone talk to you like that! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u43	Who do you mean, Mr. Zablyanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u44	I mean Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u45	Moving on to the next point, Project...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u46	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u47	I won't give you the floor for a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u48	You mentioned me...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u49	I won't give you the floor for a personal explanation, sit down! [[Applause and laughter by GERB.]] Moving on to the next point: PROJECT OF THE PERSONAL CHANGE DECISION IN THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. The floor has Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to present the draft decision on personal changes to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u50	Where's the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! I present to your attention: Project! DECISION for personal changes to the Minister's Council of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the decision of the National Assembly on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 May 2017. HAS DECIDED 1. He released Nikolai Kirilov Petrov as Minister of Health. 2. He elected Kiril Milanov Ananiev as Minister of Health. I will allow myself, in a few words, to present Mr. Ananiev, although he is well known in absolutely all the circles in the executive, legislative, local authorities, with the long years when he has worked in the field of public finances. Kiril Ananiev was born on 2 July 1955. He started working at the Ministry of Finance in 1980 after graduating from the specialty of Finance and Credit at the UNWE. Specializes in the field of financing social and cultural expenditure at the same university as in the field of health reform in Chicago, the United States of America, as well as in the field of health reform. Passes through all the expert posts to reach Head of the Chief of the State Expenditures and Deputy Minister of Finance in three successive governments in the period 1998. He was also Secretary of Financial Policy in the Administration of the President of the Republic between 2009 and 2011, as well as Advisor to the Prime Minister's Political Office between 2013 and 2014. From August 2014 to January 2017 he was Deputy Minister of Finance and in the caretaker government from 27 January 2017 to 3 May the same year he was Minister of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u52	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I'm opening the debate. Here you go. You have the floor, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u53	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Mr. Ananiev! We are about to vote on the resignation of the Minister of Health and elect a new Minister of Health. Routine procedure during the government of GERB. It happens every few months, nothing new. Yesterday, however, the Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov made a prophecy, a prediction: The person who will fix Bulgarian healthcare was not born yet. I would accept it, however, if after this sentence we put a comma: the person who will fix the Bulgarian health care, member or sympathizer of the political party GERB is not born. [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB.]] Because the political party GERB does not have a concept and strategy for the development of Bulgarian healthcare. As for the change, nothing new. The second person in the administration of the health system in Bulgaria, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, became the first Minister of Health. It's okay. However, Mr. Ananiev, you have a very heavy inheritance. There are several major problems that you need to know them. You're crossing the other side of the barrier. You will meet the suffering Bulgarian citizens and you must find the means for their treatment, which is difficult. You will be with the pain of Bulgarian citizens on a daily basis. You enter an environment where the main problem is the lack of regulation. Chaos, as the former Minister of Health said at his inauguration. Because the basic structural documents, the National Health Card and the main package are missing. You have one legacy of 500 million responsibilities of state hospitals. I don't want you to be the minister during which they will be bankrupt. And last but very important. We already have several ministers promising that the 83 million will happen. Euro money to renovate emergency assistance in Bulgaria. With this money, 400 ambulances must be purchased. Since 2013, they are not purchased. The ambulances are now nine years old, they've exhausted their capacity. The government of Bulgaria does not foresee capital expenditure for renovation of emergency aid. At the beginning of his term, Minister Petrov said the renovation will take place by the end of this year. A few weeks ago he told us it would happen legally next year, but it will happen in the next year. With this, I would like to tell you that you need to pay urgent attention to emergency care. Hopefully, at the time of the new minister's mandate, things will happen that we have been talking about for the past six months. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u54	Thank you, Assoc. Yordanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov. After him, Dr. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen ministers, dear Mr. Ananiev! Unfortunately, the atmosphere of your intervention has been severely disturbed. I do not want to comment on it, but it is really difficult in such an atmosphere to take on one of the most neural posts in the state, the post of the Minister of Health. Moreover, the fact that the frequent change of ministers does not want to list how many in recent years, and you are the seventh precisely, suggests the burden of the problem, but also suggests the lack of vision to solve this problem. And in order not to mention abducted things, relying on the fact that you, as you said, were four times the Chairman of the Board of the National Health Insurance Fund and a longtime member of this Management Board, given that in the so-designed state the National Health Insurance Fund represents nothing more than a Cassichka, which is controlled by the Ministry of Finance through the Ministry of Health, and is not a public authority as called, I allow myself to address you at a very responsible time for you and for the nation. This is the moment between the first and second reading of two very serious laws "The Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund, which finances over 90% of Bulgarian healthcare, as well as the large budget of the state, which finances the activities of the Ministry of Health. And to share with you some concerns of the whole society and of the entire professional community, which I hope you will comply with. The first is the lack of balance between hospital and hospital care. This was highlighted in the parliamentary hall. I hope that with your participation as a financier and a high-class professional, this will happen between first and second readings. Secondly, the two absolutely unacceptable, both for the professional community and for the nation, the moratorium on imposing the lack of opportunity to conclude contracts for new activities, new clinical pathways, and also the Moratorium for non-compliance with the Bulgarian patient, to the Bulgarian citizen of innovative funds in the new 2018. Moreover, according to the National Health Insurance Fund, no more than 25 million are necessary for the new medicines that will enter into life threatening diseases in 2018. These two moments are extremely neural, extremely serious and, believe me, they will crack the dam of national patience and can unleash national contempt. Therefore, do not allow yourself as a longtime member of the Governing Council of the Casa and as a future minister to make such mistakes, which have never been allowed by any government in the short history of democracy in Bulgaria for 28 years. As a principal, I would allow myself to pay attention to only two programmes that are extremely important in your ministry's Programme. The first program is for the service of citizens in special condition and especially for Bulgarian citizens who are located in remote and difficult accessible areas. This programme of your ministry's estimates covers a very serious figure: a million and six hundred thousand people. However, the number of funding is very low and we will have a concrete proposal in this direction to support healthcare in these so serious and neural regions of the country. And second of all, the blood and blood production program. This is part of the national security in Bulgaria. There is hardly any person in this room whose relatives did not need to be blood transfusions, and if we quote you about the number of patients affected by the so-called "infusion hepatitis" - hepatitis, which is transferred from blood transfusions to poorly managed blood products, this is a very serious link, a gap that still exists in the system of blood collection and blood products in Bulgaria and represents a really serious part of national security. Specific and necessary measures need to be taken there. Last but not least, with regard to the Ministry's activities, I would pay attention to your Administrative Activity Programme. We must tell you that the accreditation of hospitals as it is currently being carried out is absolutely outdated, archaic and non-compliant with modern requirements. This must be changed in general. And with regard to the quality of medical work, a problem that is extremely important for the huge resource that currently spends healthcare needs to be territorially expanded by the Medical Audit Agency across the country so that it can control the medical activities of all medical institutions in Bulgaria. Graduating, Mr. Ananiev, there are two serious issues that pierce the eyes of all people who are professionally involved in health care in Bulgaria. The first question is the model of financing the healthcare system. The second question is the demonopolization of the National Health Insurance Fund. Please, turn to them! Then you will receive our support for a professional and public debate. If you do not address them, there will be many problems for you and for the whole society. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u56	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. - What's the line? I won't. Dr. Jaffer, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Mr. Ananiev, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I admit that I am extremely uncomfortable with every resignation and vote of resignation by the Minister of Health and the choice of another minister. I am sure that all my colleagues from the Health Committee feel so uncomfortable, and I guarantee that this is how all my colleagues from our parliamentary group feel. However, even more uncomfortable is that in the healthcare system there is no way out of this situation, from the deadlock. It is even more difficult that the Bulgarian patient remains dissatisfied with the system, that he is the most paying out of his pocket, even if he is health insurance, that he is at the latest diagnosed. Even more uncomfortable we feel than those working in the system working in an uncomfortable environment because they are threatened by a priori-set conflicts and are one of the lowest paid with few exceptions. The finance minister said the system is ineffective, but the efficiency of the system does not depend on doctors working in this system. It's up to the government. It depends on those who give direction. And when it is not clear what will happen in this system, things seem to be like this in five or six months we are discussing another resignation. Today the Finance Ministry will take to manual management the Ministry of Health for better or for worse. We all hope the results for both patients and doctors are better. In conclusion, nothing personal, Mr. Ananiev! We will not support your candidacy! Disprove the skeptics that something in the system can change for the better. It remains for those who will support you today to support the measures you will further propose for unpopular reforms, because they must be unpopular if we want to restore the system. Good luck to you. We have principled considerations. We hope that there will be a reform of the healthcare system for the good of the patients and workers in it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u58	Thank you, dear Dr. Jaffer. Before the next speech let's congratulate the children from the town of Samokov who are our guests on the balcony! [[Applause.]] Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u59	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members of the House! What is happening today in the Chamber of the National Assembly is a vivid image of the management of GERB and the face of Boyko Borisov, and it is the following: First, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov systematically violates the Constitution and the laws of the country. Here, Constitution and Rules of the National Assembly [[shows them]] . Dear Mr. Donchev, who is absent! With what power do you present here the candidate of a health minister, since the Constitution and the laws of the country say this makes him the Prime Minister alone? And there's no other possibility. When did Prime Minister Boyko Borisov transfer you his authority to the Prime Minister? Your proposal, Mr. Donchev, here is illegal within the meaning of the Constitution and the laws of the country. Secondly, Prime Minister Borisov systematically destroys the institutions in the country. Not for the first time, but now it is an extremely vivid image because a member of his cabinet is accepted, he deleted the National Assembly as an institution in Bulgaria, and it is the highest in the parliamentary Republic. Then don't be angry that parliament has the lowest confidence in the country. Aren't you humiliated, colleagues from GERB, your Prime Minister doesn't respect you? Leave the opposition alone, he doesn't respect you with his presence! Not to mention what orders he gave you as MPs. He violates the Constitution, destroys institutions, and he's a coward! Why isn't he here to answer questions? [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Every time it gets hot, this guy is hiding! He's very good at pictures, smiles, hugs and PR. But when it comes to taking responsibility, it hides. I'm asking him in absentia because I know he's watching us. [[encouraging in the BSP for Bulgaria]] Subcutaneous or intravenous use Mr. Borisov, why did you refer to Dr. Petrov as Minister, after you know from March 2017 you know! For the examination of the Court of Auditors and the Prosecutor's Office, for having concluded contracts with which he benefited family members? You knew it, and yet you suggested it! Here is another element of the face of GERB and personally of Boyko Borisov. For you, colleagues, conflict of interest, the benefit of power is irrelevant. This is normal for you! We saw it, we saw it, we saw it at the coomgate, we saw it at Delyan's. [[GERB lines]] It doesn't matter to you that someone benefits from power! Even for that, he deserves a high post! Second question, Mr. Borisov: after resigning Dr. Petrov, mass and experts, and doctors, MPs from GERB and ministers from GERB, said that he has become the victim of a game of lobby in health care. Yesterday, when we discussed the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, we lived to see a GERB member from the Health Commission to say: Here, in the Chamber, there is no Minister of Health, because there are many interests in healthcare. That was said by this tribune. Mr. Borisov, why did you accept this resignation and whose interest did you serve with it? If the thesis that Dr. Petrov is a victim of lobbying interests, then whose interests did you serve by accepting this resignation? Well, that's why he's not here! Because he has to say why he hired him when he's in conflict of interest and he's running a prosecutor's check and why he released him after you were pressed by the lobby and who these lobbies are. We didn't say that, you said it was a matter of interest! What do you propose with Mr. Ananiev's candidacy? Well, nothing! He's still on the Health Insurance Supervisory Board, he's part of the health care problem now. What difference does it make to choose this or that health minister? For eight years, colleagues from GERB, you have replaced seven health ministers one a year! What does this show? The power of power or the ministers change under the pressure of this or that lobby? Here, another characteristic of the person of GERB and Boyko Borisov.. The decisions are not taken in the interest of the system, not in the interests of the patients and not in the interest of the society, but of this or that lobby and which prevails, this health minister puts him.... until next year, seven in eight years. During this time closed hospitals, people don't have access to health care, die on the streets, drugs at bomb prices [[GERB noise and lines]] , pharmaceutical mafia and everything. What is happening today is a summary of the image of GERB, the management model of GERB and the personal image of Boyko Borisov. [[(Voices: Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? A line or a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u61	Line!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u62	Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable MPs! Dear Mrs. Ninova, I cannot understand the grounds on which you refer in this debate, demanding the Prime Minister's personal presence on this proposal, also quoting constitutional texts or texts of the Rules of Procedure? Let's read art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution: The National Assembly shall elect and dismiss the Prime Minister and, on his proposal, the Council of Ministers. Here's the offer. [[shows the decision of the Council of Ministers]] of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Borisov. This proposal was presented by Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev [[Shouts and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u64	Please order in the court! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u65	We read further the Rules of Procedure, according to art. 65...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u66	Don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u67	Article 65: The Member States of the Council of Ministers shall have the right to do so! To attend the meetings of the National Assembly. They can take the floor whenever they want it. That's right, fellow Members! It's not an obligation! Don't confuse with parliamentary control. Parliamentary control is a completely different institute, which in this case has nothing to do with it. The proposal is valid, it is duly shaped and should be dealt with as closely as possible without escalating tension or speculating on the actual facts and circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u68	Thank you. Second line? "The People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u69	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, I believe that what was said by Danny Kirilov is the legal side. You can always present things so populist and so unarguably that you can actually put a certain impression into your parliamentary group. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But, Mrs. Ninova, when you have a fear in your parliamentary group to make clear political decisions about whether a Member of the National Assembly insults the Bulgarian citizens and calls 80% of them Debili. [[Applause from GERB, loud noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] When you tolerate your candidates for MPs in the studio to disrespect the people who are repressed by communism, that is fear! Because you cannot make any clear, reasoned political decision in order to distinguish yourself from those things that are unnatural and should not exist in Bulgarian political life. To call Prime Minister Borisov a coward, I think it is quite ridiculous. Because you yourself can never make the clear management decision to discipline your parliamentary group so that there will be no MPs who insult the Bulgarian citizens. [[(Applause and cheering: Bravo, bravo!]] . Because after this speech, which made Professor Ivo Hristov, who, by the way, is a very clear judge of democracy at the beginning of democracy. Because today we're talking November 10th. [[(People from the "United Patriarchs" are coming out of the Chamber. The speech of the MP continues in constant noise, lines, cries from BSP for Bulgaria.]] He was one of the guys who worked on the team...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u70	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u71	...of Mr. Luchnikov about privatization and privatization things how should happen in Bulgaria. Now, however, he went to the other extreme and became not a European, but an anti-European, because he is always pushing us where you want you and your parliamentary group to get out of the European Union. [[(Shouts from "BSP" for Bulgaria]] . Because there were MPs coming out of this parliamentary tribune just two weeks ago and they said there should be a referendum on NATO and the European Union 10 years after we entered the European Union! There, that's fear! Here, this is a lack of political position to distinguish yourself from those MPs who undermine the country's prestige and keep us away from European values! [[(World applause from GERB. Screams from BSP for Bulgaria:]] Political party GERB and Prime Minister of Bulgaria are the people who are brave!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u72	Mr. Tsvetanov, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u73	And they will continue to rule the country with the same drive! [[Woman cheering from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Third line, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u75	Third line, Mrs. Ninova! It's not just about you, I'm not even talking about 80%, but I'll read you art. 162, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: Art. 162. (1) The President may suspend for more than one meeting, but not more than three meetings, a Member of the National Assembly, who shall: 1. insults the National Assembly, the members of the Council of Ministers, the President or Vice-President of the Republic or other bodies of government; After I review the video, I'll think about applying this article to you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Glauchev. For the coat, Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u77	Dear Mr. Tsvetanov! It's typical of you tone, but it's super simple manipulation! Do not do this because it is yet another element of lowering the authority of parliament. [[GERB lines.]] If I have to answer you this way, I will tell you: with what courage have you made a decision about Delyan Dobrev or with what courage have you made a decision about Anton Todorov? (Applications from the BSP for Bulgaria.) Let's not measure each other's courage here in this room, let's be at a slightly higher level! You and I can give a tone about this, but insist on the executive authority, whoever it is today is Boyko Borisov, tomorrow it will be someone else, this executive authority to respect the legislative power, because these are the principles of the Constitution, of the separation of authorities and of the parliamentary republic. I'm sure it's formal if we start reading the Constitution, we'll see that the Prime Minister's written proposal has been formally made. Yeah. But I ask: with which legislative act did the Prime Minister authorize Tomislav Donchev to fulfill his obligations under the Constitution? Let's not formalize on this. [[(Voices from GERB: ……]] It's a fact! Raise the level a little. We can argue on the texts of the Constitution until tomorrow. We will do nothing to contribute to democracy and the rule of law. If you are ready to humiliate yourself by accepting this attitude of the Prime Minister to Parliament, do so. The bad news is, apart from you, this humiliation falls on the institution. We are not ready for this humiliation and our own and the institution. Praise him all you want! Excuse him with the Constitution and with the rules! You can't undo the fact that this man is not coming to parliamentary control. He doesn't come when he offers ministers. It no longer comes to blitzcontrol, and that this is a systematic attitude for eight years from Prime Minister Boyko Borisov to the institution Parliament. It's a fact! Look! If you don't want to go public, get together and talk to this guy. Explain to him that in addition to humiliating his political power, he humiliates the institution of Parliament, ruins the rule of law, democracy and the Constitution. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u78	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! It is normal for Prime Minister Borisov not to be today, here in this hall, as it is said about GERB's failure in health care. Explain what? I was asking myself, what's the reason? Should Borisov's inability to choose a suitable health minister or your inability to manage the sector? I think the reason is one, and it is your reluctance to oppose the interests of large pharmaceutical companies, your reluctance to conduct any reform in the sector, your reluctance to oppose the great private interests, your reluctance to stop draining into the system. It's the only way I can explain this new minister shift, because every time you try to sell us the same thing. Now I hear how, you see, Mr. Kiril Ananiev, undoubtedly with good biography and authority, by the way, I wonder how he agreed to accept this position, he would be the savior. Each time we change the minister and explain how we start reforms and how things are getting better tomorrow so that nothing changes. Seven times we're doing the same thing, but the draining of the system continues, only the power of Mr. Goranov because I see he's following me closely is getting bigger and bigger. The Treasury Cadre Bank seems to be quite impressive. I strongly object to this, at the moment Mr. Ananiev's candidacy to be offered to us as the person, you see, who would solve the health problems because he was a financier and would introduce control and rules. Mr. Ananiev is currently Chairman of the National Health Insurance Fund, which is her job. By the way, the Cashier's budget for next year is 3 billion and 800 million, and you're telling me that we're going to take it out of the Cashier, where the contractual start is, where the payment control is, and we're going to put it in a minister, where the budget is several hundred million and there is going to be more control. No! You're taking him out of the place where he's currently in control, because as Deputy Minister of Finance is doing control right there. The answer was, he would make policies as a minister. And that's not true! Health policies are made here by this House and by the majority that chooses it, if there is, of course, a desire. Again, to do so, to oppose these interests, but none. The facts show: 2009, when you come to power, the cost of health care is 2 billion and 600. Budget 2018 After all these years your management, the cost of health care is 4 billion and 700. What's the score? You can ask the Bulgarian citizens if they are satisfied with this. What's the reason for all this? The lack of control and any regulation! It is important for me today that Mr. Ananiev come out here and answer a number of questions. I will allow myself to address several to him: is he ready to put an end to this criminal re-export of medicinal products? You know very well that you write with prescriptions of fake patients, are paid by the Cashier and then move out? According to estimates, that's 200.300 million losses. By the time you are in the Cashier, Mr. Ananiev, the funds for medicinal products this year will exceed the estimated budget by 100 million and every year they continue to grow even close to 200. I'm not gonna talk about reimbursing politics, pro-generic and other things. Every minister, when a change is made, comes here with another promise. I would also like to hear your answer to that question. Everyone promises new financial rules on which hospitals will work and from every minister we begin to wait for these rules, but the only thing that happens is a shift on the boards of management of these hospitals. The fact is that debts are growing is currently over 500 million. My question is, what are you going to do about it? How will you decide that? Of this 500 million, you know that 150 million is already overdue. Why is the cost of hospital work, look even this year, at the beginning of the year 135 s. 137 million per month, currently over 160 million per month? What does that mean? Lack of control again! My request is: here, today, you must say how you will resolve these issues before you receive trust or distrust from this Chamber. There cannot be one million hospitalized patients in Bulgaria in 2000 and at the moment they can be two million and three hundred. Well, it's a good thing our country is small, otherwise this system, as I see it, will make us all sick only to issue expenses. Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u80	Extend the parliamentary group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u81	Mr. Ananiev, I want to know what your intentions are on this issue. Do you intend to insert the National Health Information System, the electronic recipe, the electronic health card, the electronic file of each and every one of us? Will you make a commitment to do this? I want a clear answer to these questions. This answer you must also have from the majority, which will eventually support you here to be aware of what you are doing. Mr. Ananiev, otherwise it is very dangerous to become another kamikaze that will pass through the Ministry of Health. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u83	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! Dear Mr. Boychev, your colleagues said here in this Chamber that they will not support the election of the nominated Minister of Health Mr. Ananiev. This is the position of your parliamentary group, and you are asking questions and saying that you want to hear the answers to get Mr. Ananiev's confidence. You stated in advance that you would not support Mr. Ananiev's election as Minister. What kind of hypocrisy is that?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Boychev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u85	Mr. Lazarov, this is how we understand parliamentary democracy, a place where questions are asked and answers are due to these questions. Because you can't have a ministerial shift go the way you want, without talking about failure in health care. This answer is due to every Bulgarian citizen who pays his health insurance contributions conscientiously at the moment. Shouldn't he know what the new minister's policy will be? Shouldn't he know what his priorities will be? Should it not become clear what his commitments will be? What I objected to is your attempt to try again seven times each time to explain to us that every shift will begin the reform and change in health care and so until the next shift so that nothing changes and that the money will continue to flow into health care, to make some people richer and the majority of Bulgarian citizens do not receive the necessary health care.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u86	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Come in for a speech, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u87	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ananiev! First of all, I would like to begin by saying that I will not offend any of the members of the Council of Ministers so that you do not expel me from the Chamber. [[Radio.]] The second thing I would like to say is that I am not surprised at the fact that the discussion on the selection of a new Minister of Health is going on this way. Such a discussion is always heated, because instead of everyone in this room and everyone who sits here, let's pour sand on our heads and admit that everyone who ruled and ruled this sector failed, we are wondering who to blame. Why am I saying this? Before that, I would like to refer to an old Chinese wisdom about whether the cat should be white or black. The important thing is that it should hunt mice. Unfortunately, however, instead of catching mice, hunting criminals in the system, the health ministers, who have been so far, were trapped by themselves. And that's the big problem. This is the big problem, because it is the Minister of Health who has to propose policies in the sector to limit the thefts the Minister of Finance is talking about. When we talk about thefts in the health care system and when we have all the power, Mr. Minister, we need to be aware that having the tools of control and all the power, we need to be so kind as to point out those who have corporate interests. Why didn't the Cashier's Supervisory Board, for example, point to these interests, name them directly? Aren't there two Deputy Minister of Health, one Deputy Minister of Finance, who is chairman of the Supervisory Board, and the head of the National Revenue Agency, as recorded in the Health Insurance Act? What is the problem not to indicate corporate interests and to take measures? From here I am going to the discussion, which was short-term in society before the election of the new Minister of Health: what should be the profile of the Minister, whether he should be a doctor, or should he be a manager, economist, financier, manager who can manage healthcare? For our parliamentary group, this issue has long been resolved. As a doctor, it was very difficult for me to experience this catharsis to change my opinion that a doctor should manage this system, but we have reservations about this manager managing this system. If he is a manager of political qualities, this is the best option. Why am I saying this? Because healthcare is politics. Medicine is science, medicine is done in medical institutions, in scientific institutes. Health is a policy and should be done here in this Chamber, and in the Council of Ministers. If we understand everyone in this House this message, we must have expectations of the new Minister of Health that he will conduct a policy to be in the Council of Ministers and in the National Assembly approved by consensus. It is no accident that our parliamentary group is talking about a non-party consensus. It is clear that no parliamentary group can handle this issue on its own. Therefore, for us, this profile, which is now defined as Minister of Health, is acceptable from the point of view that Mr. Ananiev has some of the qualities or the majority of the qualities that I spoke about just now. I would like to conclude with this: firstly, to wish the new minister good luck, and secondly, to wish him a wish, crossing the threshold of the ministerial cabinet, not to see the rear sign, welcome to hell! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u88	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? For a line, Mr. Ermenkov. Before that, colleagues, let's welcome the students from 10 Primary School - Aleko Konstantinov, Sofia. Pernik, who are on the balcony today. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ademov, I do not fully agree with you as regards the profile of this new candidate for Minister It is normal when a trading company is at a loss that the owner sends a reviewer there to tighten the costs. It's normal for this to happen with restrictive measures. It is also normal to stop money for those hospitals that are not profit-free while they are trading companies. So whether this minister will be a candidate or someone else, in any case the problem will be the same.. these trading companies will have to work on profit from the health of our fellow citizens, from our health. As long as this is the case, and as long as the healthcare service is being performed, not health care, it doesn't matter what the minister's name is. I would like, Mr. Ademov, to take the case that I am here, to hear the candidate minister what he intends to do about it. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] I said I'm using the case. Otherwise, I said what my line was. I don't agree that that's all it takes to be a manager. You can't be the manager of something that hasn't been reformed. There's no way!? The result will be the same. Whether it will be by the end of this year, there will be little left, whether it will be by the middle of next year And again in the next budget, if you are in power, there will no longer be four, it will be five billion for health care and even more sick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I'm impressed with your line. It is a consistent position of your parliamentary group on whether or not the medical institutions should be commercial companies. On this issue the discussion has always been complicated and difficult, but tell me the purely commercial activities in the medical institutions under which law should they be registered in Bulgaria? This one, first. Secondly, it is not true that medical activity is a commercial activity because it is regulated under the Health Insurance Act. Medical activity is regulated in a completely different way than the principles of the Commercial Law. You should know that. I'm not sure you're fully aware of that, because the way you said it doesn't show that. Secondly, I repeat, it is clear that the political message about the choice of such a candidate for the Minister of Health is clear. It is obvious that its expectations are to implement rather fiscal measures, implement government measures, the expected measures, so that financial resources can be optimized. I use the word "optimizes" for no reason not to use the word "limitable." The most incorrect policy in healthcare is to increase costs when they are necessary when they are reasonably committed. Therefore, I expect the new Minister of Health to show what are the corporate health interests and together everyone in the Chamber, adopting health legislation, to limit these corporate interests, to close these loopholes and to close those loopholes, which were carried out for example in 2010, when the so-called transfer balance in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund was transferred to the Ministry of Health. There is still no answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u92	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Any other speeches? Mr. Kolev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u93	Honourable Members, Madam President, Dear Ministers! Let's just think about how light we are to deprive ourselves of footage that has proved to be world-class. A proven professional who has achieved wonderful results in the work he is dealing with, wonderful results at the Military Medical Academy with 200 million obligations that have been melted in a short period of time, proven economic results in healthcare where we are looking for such economic results! A professional who knows how to build teams, a professional who took the first steps to stabilise financial discipline in the Ministry of Health and in the health sector. That's the kind of man we're voting resignation on right now. We need to think as MPs how easy it is to separate ourselves from such footage because of a moral act, according to Gen. Petrov. Yes, you did, a moral act, but was it worth it to deprive ourselves of such a professional? That is why with one positivism I want to say now that we all need to understand that such people are needed by Bulgaria and not by a light hand to deprive ourselves of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Kolev. Any lines to Mr. Kolev's statement? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kolev, shouldn't you declare a conflict of interest? In each statement you must declare it, because with such zeal to defend a going minister, you must have had some benefit. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Kolev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u97	Please excuse my inexperience. I declare such a conflict of interest if that would calm you down. But where are the words for Gen. Petrov from your side? Where are the words of the person who, with his proven results in the financial part of the Military Medical Academy, was an example of how this could happen in the Ministry of Health? Where are the words? They're gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Kolev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Kiril Ananiev's candidacy is the first candidate for health minister with a profile that meets the views of the DPS for health minister. [[Radio.]] Since 2005, we believe that the health minister, who needs to change the system and conduct this reform, which is needed by the health care system, should be an economist, in particular a financier with experience in managing health processes. Kiril Ananiev fully covers this profile. Why, though, would we vote against the application? It's very simple. We said it yesterday and the other day and during the discussion of the budget and the discussion of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. The system needs not only a new minister who really understands finance, a budget, an economy, a market relationship, competition to put order, but also needs the political will of the ruling majority, and not only of it, a common political will to reform this most important public sector. Several times we have already had the opportunity to expose you to our position on this issue. We've told you what we've done in the past, where we've come from, what mistakes we've made. Here it was said that GERB is responsible for the serious condition of this sector. I'll be correct. We are all to blame for the difficult situation of this sector "all the political parties that have participated in the country's governance over the years in which we did not have the courage to oppose a model that is nowhere in Europe and the world. We didn't have the courage to reform a system, the only system in which there are remnants of a plan model, a command-administrative model of regulating market relationships. Once again, healthcare cannot be subject to full market regulation. There must be quasi-market relations put in place, but it must be done so that they exist. The main interaction between the financing part and the medical part should be on a market basis. The choice of who is to manage our money must be on the market principle of having a choice. Control tell us why we have moved to a market economy because we have all come to a consensus that it is very difficult to control market entities that are state-owned, that the best regulator is the market, that the best regulator is competition. And this sector is no exception. If these market mechanisms are introduced to competition, the system will begin to heal itself, Mr. Goranov. She doesn't need a healer. The healer is the mechanisms that cure these diseases, and they are clear to the whole of Europe and to the whole world. We don't need to find the hot water. The only thing the new minister receives on his inauguration is a shy written text in the management program of GERB and the government, a step-by-step demonopolization of the Health Insurance Fund. When did it take place, what stages does one God know? The other thing I see you're telling him: to become a controller of a system that can't control because it works on other principles. And there the principles are such that over 6 billion, and here also as financiers, as budgeters, should not deceive the Bulgarian public with the money that hospitals spend on medicines. The cost of medicines goes between 50% and 60% of the total amount of healthcare, there is nothing to comment on, there is no analogue anywhere in the world..................................... the Bulgarian doctors and the Bulgarian patients from the money they are owed. Not to mention the fact that the words "white mafia" have their reasons. The other very important issue that the minister has to decide is how to control a system where there are no real controls. Not at all. And that's why ministers change every few months. It would be a shame to have a really good professional, a man who knows brilliantly budget procedures, budget, finance, economy and health processes burned just because he will not be given the political leverage to reform this system. To end with, not to be naked: we at the DPS are ready to participate in consultations with the government, if you wish, what kind of system, what to look like in time? If we proceed to a brave reform, the resistance of those who will lose from the fact that the reform will change, we will make a commitment not to take their country, but to defend the one who will make this reform. You can't ask for more than one opposition. This is a hand, not for anything else, but because it is the most important system, the most sensitive sector in which the most money is sunk, in which the inefficiencies of spending the money is huge and on which the health and life of the Bulgarian citizens depend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u100	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Any lines to Mr. Tsonev's statement? Is there? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u101	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! I have one remark to Mr. Tsonev's speech and I ask him not to let go, as other speakers in this room, and to indirectly sew on the medical community in Bulgaria the nickname "White Mafia." This can cost very dearly both him and those who allow themselves from this tribune to involve Bulgarian doctors to a phenomenon that may exist, but should not be generalized and entered into the political vocabulary of the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u102	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. Second line? I can't see. Hole, Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u103	Thank you for that line. It gives me reason to really be more precise in my speech. I deeply respect the thousands of doctors, nurses, and all who work in the system fair and square, and who, thanks to our reluctance to create working conditions for them, are one of the most victims of this system. I didn't mean them. I meant the few of them, along with the pharmaceutical companies, some of the pharmaceutical companies, along with politicians, administrators in the Casa who do this. Yesterday I referred to an interview that I read to your esteemed colleague Professor Grigorov, who has participated in the establishment of both the Military Medical Academy and the Government Hospital Lozenets, who literally said so: If a doctor tells them, I can't help but trust him, and such a specialist. But to everyone else, if I have offended them by my speech, I deeply apologize because I value their work very much. It was no accident that three years I worked on an order of the management of the DPS and on an order of the management of the triple coalition in the team, which had to design a new model for the functioning of the health care system with desire and affection for doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u105	Dear Madam President, ministers gentlemen, colleagues! I'll say two words as a patient because we often talk about doctors, but we patients are inextricably linked to doctors. Mr. Ademov will support me. We've been through this problem. Look, I'm not gonna take professional treatment, even though I've been living with a doctor for 25 years who works at Pirogov. Rather, I would like to say a few words: the most important thing I understood with my cohabitation with a doctor is that for a sick person the most important thing is the diagnosis of a good diagnosis, the exact diagnosis and from here on follows the treatment. I will congratulate Minister Goranov, who, for the first time, listened to him in the Committee on Health, makes a very precise diagnosis of health care. Mr. Tsonev is right. The problem has not been since yesterday, it has not been for ten years, the problem has been since Lukanov continued the breakdown of the system started since then. It must be very difficult because it concerns people's health. So I'm going to say: there is one diagnosis. Looks like all we're talking about is health care money. If you feel it, we all use the word "money" in health care how it is poured and how it does not work. There must be some problem with the money itself. I don't know about finances. I'm not gonna take any chances, but I'm gonna take a look at the diagnosis that's been made. This problem needs to be solved because, when I went to Germany, people asked me: "Why not in Bulgaria? " "Beautiful doctors, great doctors to preserve the dignity of the Bulgarian doctor, because every day we understand how important they are when we get there. They're easy to get away from. I said I was going there because we're poor people and we don't have this technique, special treatment, very special technique. This poverty will wear us out if we continue to talk about Bulgarian medicine. Amazing specialists. So let's get involved in this particular diagnosis. It's very accurate, I won't repeat it. I got it. For the first time in my life, I think... With a very serious Bulgarian financier to sit down, do arithmetics, regulate processes, stop pouring money, improve health care, be rich Bulgarian doctors, be happy but also healthy Bulgarian citizens. So let us vote on trust, not just spit politically, because it is not about politics, but about health for the health of the Bulgarian people. Let us give a chance to a wonderful Bulgarian financier, a budgeter, to tighten the arithmetics a little bit. I'm not gonna tell you how much this treatment cost me, and I'm not gonna tell you how much I paid for it myself. Of course, I thank both the Bulgarian health care and the Health Insurance Fund. I think it's unnecessary to spit, especially when we're talking about doctors. Let's give Mr. Ananiev a chance. Let's tighten the financial discipline. It does not concern only medicine, it concerns all ministries and all portfolios in the state. And finally, this health care thing gets back on its feet. I hope that with very good experts, the minister does not need to be a very great expert, in a team of good, healthy, good experts. Good luck to him. He's safe. He's safe. And good luck! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u106	Thank you, Sir Rashidov! Any lines to Mr. Rashidov's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? There's another statement. Dr. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ministers and candidate ministers! The theme was dominated by this hall during the week for a number of reasons. The first reason was the health budget, which we discussed and which in the course of the negative comments and political interpretations somehow sank with the positive, namely that we have 407 million more for the National Health Insurance Fund and 36 million more at the Ministry of Health. This ensures financial stability, and I strongly oppose all those that the funds allocated to health care are costs. It's an investment in the health of the nation. They must be sought for their effective spending, but in no case can the health system be taken into account only that it carries a budget cost. On the contrary, the commitment of all political forces should be the investment in a healthy Bulgarian nation. The second reason for the health debate was the resignation of Minister Petrov "a worthy act of a decent man, unfortunately, not so popular in all political forces. The fact is that there were interests that led him to be discredited, and the attempt to denigrate the name of a worthy Bulgarian doctor was accepted by him with sufficient strength and dignity. Now that's strength and dignity. And attempts to use such action to solve domestic political problems, to strengthen party positions or to transfer the focus from scandals in everyday life to another topic are really incorrect. The most incorrect of all this is to make health policy, not health policy. I would like to stress that the problems in the sector are, of course, both financial and organisational. I believe that we have found the right figure for a minister who will stabilize the financial and organizational system and follow the Programme drawn up by this management. In this programme, first of all, we have set up a Single National Health Information System that will provide sufficient efficiency, transparency, better management and better control of the system. I believe that all the next points in the program of the management of the United Patriarchs and the Political Party GERB will be realized. What was missing in today's debate, of course, not all of those who spoke, was also an element of repentance. Because, yes, we are all responsible for the state of the healthcare system at the moment, because all political forces, in one position or another, have managed this sector in recent years. What we can find from now on is consensus. Because it is this mechanism that can solve the problems in the sector by consensus, by looking for the best out-of-party solutions, by looking for a long-term vision. That is why today we will support Kiril Ananiev's candidacy for a minister and I believe that the reasonable people in this room will also do so because we will give Bulgarian healthcare a good chance. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u108	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. - What's the line? Dr. Naydenova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u109	Dear Madam President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I take the floor to disagree with the esteemed Dr. Daritkova. I think the sum of, and there are a lot of economists here, and I quote exactly 2 million. 358,000. 500 leva. for eHealth for 2018, it will not reach even if the Minister of Finance is Minister of Health. The amount is extremely small and, although the government boasts that this will be enough, I think that whoever the next minister is will ask for more money as long as there is the political will to do so. If he does not, however, it seems that there are really interests for electronic healthcare in Bulgaria not to happen or to delay in time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u110	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. Second line? A hole? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u111	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief. I absolutely agree with you, Dr. Daritkova, that the debate on health policy should be held. However, the very fact that the problems have not been solved within the last nine years during which your political power has dominated, the very fact that we are currently debating the election of a seventh health minister, says rather that an anti-health policy is being conducted. And everything positive that is happening at the moment in this very difficult end of Bulgarian social life is happening, despite this anti-health policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u112	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. Third line? I can't see. Pinhole Dr. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u113	My fellow Members, who have replicated me, I am very sorry that you are once again going into interpretations of individual elements and details, and in negativity we really need to have a global view of the system. Ms. Naydenova, the Programme for Information Single National Health System is implemented not only by the National Health Insurance Fund. It is implemented with European funding under the Good Governance Programme and there are over 600 million. lv. I believe that within this framework the Ministry of Health will be able to successfully implement this project, as a result of which this system will be built, because it implies not only covering the structures of the Health Insurance Fund, but the whole system, which concerns the health of Bulgarian citizens. Yes, the fact is that the ministers' frequent shifts were there with us, and they were there with you when you were in charge. Exactly what I always think and will continue to repeat that it is missing, and what you stress is missing is exactly the consensus. If we achieve it, regardless of our positions of government and opposition, we will indeed have better health care.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u114	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Declaration on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group. [[Applause.]] Very enthusiastic welcome to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Ministers! It's 28 years old today...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u116	Mr. Gurnevsky, just a moment. Colleagues, either leave or sit down! Wait for the movement to stop in the hall. [[Noise and lines. PG of BSP for Bulgaria is leaving the hall.]] Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u117	Madam President, I have one suggestion for you to include a direct transmission. [[Noise, lines and excitement.]] Well, they got the artists out of the hall. There's no need for a direct transmission. Declaration on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group. Today is the 28th anniversary of the historical reincarnation of the Bulgarian Communist Party in Socialist. From its main ideological cliché, fighters against fascism and capitalism, the words of....................... have dropped and repainted communists have defined themselves as socialists, anti-fascists even though it is known to everyone in Bulgaria that there has never been fascism in this country. By the date of the change in 1989, communist government had already declared the bankruptcy of the state. Its huge resources were exported years earlier out of the country through foreign trade companies. Bulgaria implemented the market economy and launched the era of return to capitalism. This period will be remembered with the march of the red briefcases and the gradual return of the kidnapped capital. The first democratic government was overthrown after the betrayal of his coalition partner from the DPS. [[Noise and lines.]] Their mandate was made up of the government of Berov, which all the annals today define as the government of the Bulgarian mafia. Market relations since then are defined as the second major robbery of Bulgarian assets, which ended with the bankruptcy of the banking system in 1996, with 26 bankrupt banks during the government Videnov "Gechev." With this bankruptcy the savings of Bulgarian citizens were also robbed. If you look into the list of credit millionaires today, you'll see that all of them are either a former red nomenclature or former State Security agents. It was no accident that after the midday robbery of the insurmountable homeland during these first years of pseudo-democracy and with the capital initially accumulated on the criminal path, in 1997 the privatisation began. If today the names of the big capitalists of Bulgaria are made public, it will become clear that more than 90% of them are descendants of the former fighters against fascism and capitalism. This process continued for years to come to the KTB affair. On this exact date last year, at the Plovdiv Municipal Council, I delivered a report and he accepted it, showing how the mastite oligarch from the High Council of BSP Georgi Gergov managed to stunk the municipality of Plovdiv with 150 million properties and with them to privatize the International Fair in 2006 and the total assets are over 600 700 million total by Panaira. At the time, Deputy Minister of Economy and Chairman of the Fair Board was the leader of the BSP Ms. Cornelia Ninova, and an active fighter against corruption. It is a very nice initiative of the majority responsible for privatization to fall and, when we talk, and we are looking at corruption, these two moments of privatization and corruption, to go and look together, and so interesting things will come out that this part of the House will still be empty. [[Applause from GERB.]] This is what I want the young people in BSP to know and some descendants of the generals of State Security. I also appeal to Mr. Krum Zarkov with the recommendation before giving irony advice on the studios, to get acquainted with the history of his party, but not with the fake, but with that parallel story that led Bulgaria to a begging staff. But so much forgiveness that twice they tried to sell it to the Soviet Union for the 16th Republic. This robbed people, Mr. Hristov, you call them debilitating people?! These 80% of it, who will never trust you with the government of the country because they know perfectly well that when BCP is ruling, the state is necessarily bankrupt. [[Applause from GERB.]] Did you fire on this worthy people the automatic blow of hatred and rematchism, Mr. Hristov? Is this how you educate young people of European Bulgaria? Your shooting is a disgrace to Bulgarian science! I say all this because of the young people and in the other part of the Chamber, so that they know why in 2009 GERB inherited a colonial state which, despite the communist resistance, is a stable and respected member of the European Union, an undisputed leader, a respected and sought-after ally of the Balkan peoples. What was built in the first two mandates of Prime Minister Borisov led to the fruits that are gathering today. The economic upsurge is in place. With 4% of economic growth and 105 expected, 106 billion GDP in 2018, it is obvious to everyone that, at the end of its term of office, the government of GERB and the United Patriarchs will fulfil all the promises it has made. [[Applause from GERB.]] And when he does that, after government 1, 2 and 3 he can't help but follow 4, 5, 6. [[Applause from GERB.]] And for you, Mr. Hristov, don't worry, we won't send you anywhere outside of Bulgaria with this Declaration. But I would like to share with you personally the words of Alexander Stamboliiski, spoken 100 years ago from this tribune. He says so here you can check in the annals: For you, the communists, I will take the Lake of Burgas and leave it in it to build your communist state. And if anything comes out of it, then we will think about communism in Bulgaria, but I seriously doubt that you will succeed. Well, dear friends, as you can see, to date, Alexander Stamboliyski was obviously right. Thank you. [[Applause and excitement by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Gurnevsky. Colleagues, we are continuing the debate on the point. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Go ahead, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u119	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I propose the vote on this. 1 and 2 of the proposal to be separated.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. I put to the vote the procedure made by Mr. Atanasov, t. 1 and 2 of the draft decision to be voted separately. [[The result of the vote written on the dashboard: Vote 188 MPs: for 83, against 55, abstention 50. Awesome.]] Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u121	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! Colleagues, I would like a re-vote procedure and I would like you to respect the following: in this case it is unacceptable to have a separate vote because the two acts, the two acts, are linking and pre-eminent. The current minister must be released in order to appoint the next minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u123	I'm clarifying procedure because it's a procedural error.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u124	Revoting procedure. Re-vote, please. They voted 193 MPs: for 86, against 70, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the draft decision that I will read: "Project! DECISION for personal changes to the Council of Ministers' Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the decision of the National Assembly on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 May 2017. (DV, No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No HAS DECIDED 1. He released Nikolai Kirilov Petrov as Minister of Health. 2. He elected Kiril Milanov Ananiev as Minister of Health. Please vote. Vote 206 MPs: 121 against 85 abstentions. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] The motion is accepted. Congratulations, Mr. Ananiev. Here's a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u125	Thank you, Madam President. The fight is ruthlessly cruel. The struggle, as they say, is epic. I fell. Someone else is gonna replace me and... that's it. What does a person mean here?The Immortal Vaptsarov. Members of the ruling majority never understood that this was not about personalities. They did not understand that this is about policies, about lack of reforms in this sector. The new minister you just elected, we never heard from him today. We did not hear the motives of the proposed Mr. Borisov, which means, Mr. Ananiev, that you should prepare to go through this Ministry quickly, because obviously your stay there will not be very lasting. This is about lobbies, about profits, about this is today's issue, so it was today's debate that we tried to make here in the hall, and we did it, to which you kept silent, you wanted to lead him in the personal sense... which minister was good, who was not. This, honourable MPs of the ruling majority, was not today's debate that you sought. Today's debate is that in the healthcare system it will get worse and worse that Bulgarian citizens will not have access to this system. That's why I voted against the hospital because the hospital is going bankrupt, because as long as there is a business relationship between a doctor and a patient, this system will continue to be destroyed and going down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Replying from the O.P.: "He is speaking! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u127	Dear colleagues, make a difference between speech and line...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u128	Mr. Ermenkov, please state the reasons for your negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u129	Dear Mr. President, honourable gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll allow myself to tell you why I voted negatively by reading something written by a hospital director. I read: I think it doesn't matter who it is or what it is. It matters whether it has a mandate for reforms or a mandate for bankruptcy, and that the system is in collapse is clear. There are a few sums that this hospital has to pay, and I'm not going to bother you with them. And it goes on: "Have you heard that doctors and nurses do not sell diplomas, that no one wants to start working in a district hospital because there are the most severely treated? Does it matter what the minister's name is? If there is no will for urgent reform, the other is Vratsa, Lovech, and this is only the beginning. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Third negative vote.. People's representative Valeri Zablyanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In the release of Minister Margarita Popova as Minister of Justice, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov is absent. In the release of Stefan Konstantinov as Minister of Health, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov is absent. In the release of Minister Sergey Ignatov Boyko Borisov is absent. In the release of the Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov and the election of Ekaterina Gencheva-Zaharieva Boyko Borisov was not present because of a commitment abroad. In the release of Minister Todor Tanev as Minister of Education and Science Boyko Borisov was abroad. In the release of Ivaylo Kalfin as Minister of Labour and Social Policy Boyko Borisov was even further away in Uzbekistan. Dear Members of Parliament, Dear Ministers! Dear Mr. newly elected Minister Ananiev, you do not have the support of the Prime Minister. This is the main conclusion of today's discussion. You'll find it in a few months. We are now informing you of the previous practice of the Prime Minister in this area, if you are not aware, because you are an integral part of the management for many years. And lastly, to the Prime Minister, on today's date, it is particularly relevant: the downfall does not always help, Prime Minister. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u132	Is that a negative vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u133	This was a negative vote. The reasons for Mr. Zablyanov to vote negative. Minister Ananiev, please come to the stand for the oath. Repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u134	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u135	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u136	Dear Mr. President, honourable gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, honourable gentlemen and ladies Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the House, honored guests! I would first like to thank all the MPs for participating today in the vote for a new Minister of Health. I respect the opinion of all those who supported me and those who did not support my candidacy. I would like to say that I will work with all parliamentary groups represented in our Bulgarian Parliament. I will also work with civil society, I will work with the word organizations, and with all the others who can help improve and develop the health sector. The healthcare sector does not have a color. It is a cause. And behind this cause we must all go. A few words about today's debate. There were proposals both on the left and on the right that deserve their attention as a debate, as a discussion. Why didn't I take an attitude? It wasn't that I couldn't take any attitude or that I didn't know what to say, but agree to take this post, I have prepared an action plan that comprehensively covers all issues related to health reform. This action plan is based on the priorities of the government which have been adopted, developed by me within the framework of my vision for further development of the sector............................................................................................ From this point of view, there was no way I could start debating separate issues, such as for companies or for drug control, things are very complicated. In the rest, the debate was purely political. I think he has contributed to deepening the tensions in the sector.................................................................................... You know that the tension there is very high from the smallest hospital to the administration of the Ministry of Health and Administration of the National Health Insurance Fund. My goal is to reduce this tension, create balance and peace in this system. One of the first measures I will take after today's choice is to set up an Advisory Council for the Minister of Health, in which to enter honest, decent, professionally proven Bulgarian doctors, economists, specialists with whom to debate and draw up the things that should happen and which Bulgarian citizens want them to be. Secondly, I will contact the scientific potential in the Bulgarian higher education institutions there work many Bulgarian scientists who develop the problems of the healthcare system. Why shouldn't I also give advice to the health ministers who have managed so far so that we can have this debate with them? One of my first meetings will be with the word organizations. We are about to prepare and sign a National Framework Treaty..................................................................................................... That is, within the short time we had today, we could talk more in the constructive direction in which I imagined this conversation would go. But no matter what, once again, I thank everyone for the positive or negative position. Let it be positive for the development of Bulgarian healthcare. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u137	Thank you, dear Minister. Let's wish Minister Ananiev good luck! [[Applause.]] We interrupt for 15 minutes. Then we continue with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u138	Honourable Members, here we go. PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Communication on Parliamentary Control on Personal Change in the Council of Ministers: In connection with a personal change in the Council of Ministers, voted by the National Assembly today, of the irresponsible questions and questions to the released Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov, the asked MPs will receive corresponding oral and written answers from the newly elected Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. Under the required parliamentary practice of the newly elected Minister of Health, time will be provided to get acquainted with the choking questions and questions, to prepare or update already prepared answers, to shape them according to their views, and to plan their participation in a plenary session for parliamentary control within two weeks. There are no new questions. Written answers from: - Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018. "Lilyana Pavlova, to a question from the National Representative Gemma Grozdanova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests - Rumen Porozhanov, to a question from the National Representative Slavcho Velkov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov, to a question from the National Representative Slavcho Velkov; - Justice Minister Tsetska Tsacheva, to a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy - Bisser Petkov, to a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Culture "Boil Banov," three questions from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov, to a question from the MPs Emil Hristov, Konstantin Popov and Hristo Gadzhev; - Minister of Education and Science "Krasimir Valchev, to a question from the National Representative Vesela Lecheva; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests - Rumen Porozhanov, to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Environment and Waters "Neno Dimov," to a question from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Finance - Vladislav Goranov, to a question from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Education and Science "Krasimir Valchev, two questions from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. The first question is to Valeri Simeonov, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy. He will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on a policy to solve the country's demographic problems. You have the floor, dear Mr. Gokov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u139	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Ministers and Members of Parliament! First of all, to outline the apocalyptic picture of the severe demographic crisis in Bulgaria. In less than 30 years, we have lost over 30% of the population, and without any serious causes of war, of mass epidemic, of pestilence by population, of natural cataclysms or the like. As a result, Bulgaria has emerged as the country with the worst demographic indicators in the European Union and perhaps all over the world, and our demographics continue to deteriorate and we are about to fall into the group of hyper-aging societies. The latter is the most critical category in the United Nations ranking, which is based on what part of the entire population in a country is over 65 years of age. According to this ranking, a society counts as hyperaging when the share of people out of working age in it is more than 21%. If we look at the data of the National Statistical Institute, we will see that the Bulgarians over 64 years are 20.7% of the entire Bulgarian population and those who are working at age decrease by 45 thousand compared to the previous year. Not very far back in 2010 the ratio rate was 17.7%, i.e. the rate was more than alarming. We can now calmly talk about a disastrously deserted Bulgaria. Again, according to the National Statistical Institute, this percentage will become 30% in 2030, and this is no longer telling us from anywhere, from the UN or from somewhere else, is a critical value for the sustainability of our social security systems, our national security and whatnot. In Bulgaria, everyone, including the parliamentary parties, is aware of the extremely difficult demographic situation in the country. I say this because all these parties in their election platforms deal to a lesser or greater extent with this issue. Therefore, I think this should be the issue with which the government is committed as a priority. Moreover, under the Government's Management Programme they are committed to priorities and objectives, I quote: "Restricting the demographic trends of negative demographic trends, including raising birth rates, reducing youth emigration, balanced immigration policy, tailored to the needs of the Bulgarian business. Therefore, my question to you, my esteemed Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is: what measures in the short and long term, does the government foresee to solve our country's severe demographic problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u140	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mr. Valeri Simeonov. Here you are, Mr. Simeonov. Five minutes you have to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, thank you for your question. An extremely up-to-date, important, meaningful question! It boils down to two sub-questions: what are the short-term, what are the long-term measures? I'm going to start with.....I'm not going to repeat what you said about the demographic situation. Indeed, everything you said is true. What are the measures we intend to take in the longer term, I am talking about the next three and a half years. We're on our way to solving a few questions. First of all, this is an increase in birth rate in order to achieve at least zero natural growth. Secondly, the reduction of youth emigration and a new immigration policy. In each of these three directions there is considerable foreign experience, foreign experience that we have tried to get acquainted with. Within these directions, the measure is already in place to facilitate assisted reproduction, as you know. The following six measures are yet to be submitted for adoption by the National Council for Demographic Policy to the Council of Ministers, so take them as ideas, just like long-term tasks. The first measure is the granting of special one-off financial assistance at the birth of a third child. The aid shall be granted to responsible parents who have no breach of their obligations to their first two children, respectively under relevant laws and other regulations. Just for comparison, from this year Hungary grants 32 thousand. EUR for a third child, and with similar stimulus by about four times, although four times less, Russia's birth rate was increased in eight years by 31%. In other words, there is a positive experience of where to draw. The second measure is granting special monthly financial assistance to a third child of the order of maintenance of that child's life until the age of a certain age is over. He also relaxes on responsible parents. For information, about 5,000 third children are born in the country every year at present. We want this figure to be increased! Third measure: provision of low-interest, interest-free housing loans to young families. I give comparison to Hungary, where families with three or more children in addition to this one-time aid I mentioned are given 25-year housing loans of 32 thousand. EUR at 3% interest rate. Fourth measure: provision of low-interest, interest-free housing loans to young specialists with higher education. The fifth measure is providing scholarships to young people for training in Bulgarian and foreign universities against the obligation to work in the country for a certain period of time. Scholarships are awarded for studies in Bulgarian higher education schools for specialties, where are observed the most massive emigration and shortage, as well as for studying in the highest rating foreign higher schools in specialties and areas that are strategically necessary for the Bulgarian economy. The sixth measure is the introduction of a modern immigration policy by setting conditions and criteria for the selection of potential migrants, tailored to the needs of the state. Immigration in Bulgaria has the potential to become a significant factor in achieving the goal of increasing the number and improving the age structure of the Bulgarian population. As a rule, immigrants are young people, economically active, who contribute more to the social and health insurance system and less need. I make comparisons with children, however unpopular such a comparison is. We're talking about an emigration process that is planned and managed, uninstigated, and it's not about illegal immigration either. This can happen with immigration procedures oriented towards two indicators for selection of candidates. First, what the potential emigrant can be useful for Bulgaria - education, children, age, languages and so on, and second, how much he is able to integrate into the Bulgarian nation. Of course, the Bulgarians from our historical diaspora have an advantage in the indicator of our integration and represent our natural demographic reserve. In this regard, a more special approach could be considered, both by the state and by the employers' organisations, in organising and providing work for these people on the territory of the country. The measures, quite naturally, in conclusion, will be applied in a complex package, not in a piece. Unfortunately in this area of results you can talk about, to expect in many years, it would not be far-fetched to say about ten years. Can I ask for a minute about the short-term measures that were...?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u142	Yes, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u143	What has been done so far? Telegraphically, because I assume you're in the loop. The first two weeks of this government's governance were changed The rules on labour migration and labour mobility were provided between three and four thousand of our compatriots, mainly from Ukraine, Moldova and other countries with Bulgarian diaspora to come to work for the tourist season and the tourist season, thank God, I would say saved with these three four thousand people because there was no one to work there. It's a fact, it's already done. We're in the final round with the changes in the relief regime for getting a blue card, he's already in the committees. With unpleasant surprise, I realized that the representatives of the BSP did not support these changes. Perhaps influenced by the position of the SNB. I would recommend, however, that you do so in the Chamber because there we allow highly qualified specialists from all areas to enter the labour market. There's a great deal of need for such people. There are no engineers, no technical specialists, no IT specialists. Everywhere there is a need, and there the demand is the largest and the wages are the highest, and it is the most bleached, so to speak business, it is not gray, especially in the IT industry. The third, on which we conclude work, together with the three-sided format with the Presidency, in the face of Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Yotova, and the Ministry of Justice. We are also finishing the amendments to the Law on Citizenship, which will be offered to your attention by the New Year. Dear Members of Parliament, I call on you to support it, where the time limit for obtaining citizenship will be reduced to six months! Once again, the seasonal employment provided within seven days, the blue card will be up to 37 days and citizenship, life and health, up to 6 months. Finally for Christmas, I hope, hopefully, I'm pretty much sure of that. By Christmas, we'll launch a plane to Odessa on two flights a week. I'm hesitant to invite you on the first flight, Mrs. Nino, because when I asked you to fly the helicopter over the fence, you refused me, but this time...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u144	Mr. Simeonov, get it over with!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u145	...maybe I won't invite you!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Mr. Gokov for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u147	Thank you. Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister and Members of Parliament! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your response was not protocol and clerical, only up to now, these policies that you have set out to solve the demographic crisis are rather clerical and administrative. They are not about encouraging in any way the birth rate among the Bulgarians. I do not want to raise the question that close not to say more than 50% of the newborn Bulgarians are not ethnic Bulgarians, which is again a serious problem. There will come a time when it will be difficult to claim that our Bulgarian state is really Bulgarian! Europe has the same problem, but so far it is more successful than us, from Bulgaria, which is part of Europe. My and my parliamentary group "BSP for Bulgaria" feels that even though you have set aside a place for this problem in your programme, there is no adequate action by your side and a number of other issues have shifted the question of demographic perspective to our country, such as highways, sanitization and so on, and this issue is really vital to Bulgaria. With this year's budget you bring the Bulgarian more poverty and more serious inequalities. The new budget, although you are trying to impress the Bulgarians that it is social, it is not social and there is nothing to encourage and solve the issues of demographics. Bulgaria, under the current leadership of GERB for eight years now, is the poorest country, with the lowest incomes, of all others in the European Union, even of those who are not members of the European Union. Everyone knows that! I'm marking it to tell you that this is not going to have a negative impact on the demographic development of the country, I might even argue that this is one of the serious reasons. Therefore, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I ask you: You, as a Bulgarian, who names yourself Patriots, are you satisfied with the current state of the demographic picture in the country and what the government do to solve the grave demographic problems of our country? And the extra questions. We have introduced from BSP today the idea of two bills: one to reduce the VAT on children's foods, to look after and help raise children with reduced VAT, and the second bill to introduce an indeterminate minimum income for families with one, two and three children. Do you support such policies, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. For your answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Gokov, I really tried to make an unadministrative answer. It would be good for you not to make this response politically because I have heard declarations that I will not comment on. You have the right as a political force and as a MP to have your attitude, your opinion. I don't agree with the fact that nothing is done. I see my presence in the department with exactly the meaning: something to try to do in the portfolios for which I am responsible. Of course, in the end, it will be your judgment and the voter's judgment, but that will be understood in the election. I have the self-confidence that these six months I have not only dealt with other things, and I have paid very serious attention to this question of demographics. Another point is that there was so much noise about it. More noise has been raised about the noise in the restaurants than about the demographics, but I dare remind you: in two weeks we have provided three four thousand people to enter the Bulgarian market, we are in the final for the blue card, the changes for Bulgarian citizenship are also quite advanced. So as you think, that's the kind of assessment you're gonna give. To your further questions, I am pleased with this state of demography, absolutely not. I'm not happy! There's a lot to be done. This is a very sluggish, slow process which, unfortunately, is directly linked to the economic situation in every country, not only in Bulgaria, so that the demographic crisis and trend will be reversed in case we have a reversal of the economic trend. This is how I see the issue, which does not exclude the state's incentive measures. To the other question about the VAT on children's foods. In this programme, in which we are ruling parties from GERB and Coalition, we have agreed not to change the VAT on any products, food or goods. That's what's at stake in the program. Don't ask me for my personal conviction, I won't share it, but that's how we signed up, so we'll act in this department. On the subject of the taxable minimum income, I also think that you have seen our position in the 40th and third National Assembly, here is also a matter of budget and discussion in plenary. I think that's acceptable, possible. Yet others decide the people who dispose of the money, in fact, of the country's common finances. It's up to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Gokov, please come in for treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, don't take this personally! I see that you are making efforts in this direction and the profile of your party, of your coalition, is that way. We have very many ideas in this direction that we can share with you, and that is why I think that it is vital to limit the consequences of the demographic catastrophe. This must be the subject of a very serious parliamentary discussion which will lead to real and responsible measures by the government and the majority, legislative and organisational measures of the executive for the priority provision of funds and their direction towards solving demographic problems. We should discuss here in the National Assembly, but not only as a strategy, because the Bulgarians are sick of strategies, but as concrete and clear measures that lead to a solution, to help young Bulgarian families raise their children. For this reason, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Mrs. President, on the basis of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I submit and present to you [[submits a document to the President of the National Assembly]] I think there are 66 signatures to postpone parliamentary debates on measures on the demographic crisis in front of our homeland. Believe us, we have something to say about this. I hope that you too have something to talk about on the problem of demographics, because the demographic crisis is falling birth rate, demotivation for raising children, are very serious risks and, in a short term, will be a threat even to our national security. I am pleased that these debates, the debates that we are going to make, will be on the eve or between the two readings, between the second vote on the budget for state social security and the state budget, and some decisions that we are taking or agreeing on can come in with this budget to resolve the demographic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Regarding the previous question. By letter No 754-00-122, dated 10 November 2017, submitted today at 12:00, a request was received for discussion on the question, No 754-05-51, of 26 October 2017 by the National Representative Georgi Gokov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov on a policy for solving the demographic problems of the country and Project for a solution. The proposal for debate and the draft decision are signed by 66 Members of Parliament, that is to say, the requirement for more than one fifth of the Members of the National Assembly to make a proposal on the questioning of the holding of a debate on art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting designated for parliamentary control. Let's move on to the next question. He is one of the MPs Teodora Atanasova Halacheva and Petar Boykov Vitanov on measures of the state for the protection of the children of Bulgarian immigrants. Here you are, Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! For many years there has been an unpleasant social phenomenon in the Republic of Bulgaria. Many children are raised in under-functioning families because their parents are economic immigrants. In the development of these children, there are many problems, starting from growing up without emotional and personal communication with their parents, so that their procedural representation is reached. In 2015, UNICEF did a representative study, which proved that this group of children have specific needs and problems. They struggle with their full development, have more frequent problems in school, four times more problems in a children's pedagogical room, four times more problems with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. In this regard, I and colleague Petar Vitanov ask you to answer the question: how many children in the Republic of Bulgaria, whose parents are immigrants, and what measures are you taking for their protection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u154	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u155	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear Mrs. Halacheva, Mr. Vitanov! As a result of a number of factors for years in Bulgaria is the phenomenon of. Often working abroad Bulgarian citizens entrust their children to the care of their close relatives in our country. Undoubtedly, those children whose parents work abroad and who are mostly financially, but not emotionally, influence their behavior and development, leaving a negative impression of their overall and personal growth. Children of parents of labour immigrants shall be included in the common group of children at risk within the meaning of the Child Protection Act as defined in § 1, item 1. 11 of the "Additional provisions'. They may be subject to appropriate protection measures by the relevant Department of Social Assistance at the place of residence of the child. Part of the measures are: housing in a family of relatives and relatives, in a foster family or social service of a resident type. Children and persons caring for them are directed to use appropriate social services in the community, working with a psychologist, counseling and support, prevention of violence, working with children with anti-social manifestations and deviant behavior. Some cases attract external specialists, educators, clinical psychologists, psychiatrists, pediatricians and so on. The law on school and pre-school education provides for the joint work of social partners with business establishments. It is envisaged that through the centers of support for personal development to municipalities should be carried out preventive, diagnostic, rehabilitative, corrective, re-socializing activities with children and students, including those whose parents are abroad. Further support is given to the children from the personal development team at the school and so on. In 2017, the State Agency for Child Protection conducted a study on the number of children with parents working migrants with the assistance of the Agency for Social Assistance, Regional Directorates for Social Assistance and Regional Managements of Education, as well as regional administrations. It is clear from the reports submitted by the regional education and regional social assistance departments that no accurate statistics are being kept. For children whose parents live and work abroad, no database or register of children with immigrant parents is maintained. There is a significant difference in the number of children from this target group, submitted by the regional managements of education, 10,618, and the district administrations of 5648 children. Paradox represents, for example, the information released in the media in 2016 that much of the children in the town of Nedelino, Smolyan region, are raised by their grandparents because their parents work abroad, while the data given about this municipality is that there are no such children. So the statistic is the naked water. It is impressive that only a small part of these children were employed by the Social Assistance Directorate. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Well, I've got two more pages!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u156	You've got two more minutes on your back then. Continue if you want another minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u157	Yes, I can give it to you in writing... By districts are described children with immigrant parents. Just a few words.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u158	Yeah, finish up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u159	In view of the importance of the problem in the National Programme for Child Protection since 2017 in the Operational Plan of the State Agency for Child Protection, an activity has been put in place and carried out integrated checks at municipal level regarding the respect of children's rights with immigrant parents, in accordance with the operational objective. In 2018, the rights of children with immigrant parents will be one of the priorities of the State Agency for Child Protection. I'm sorry. I can provide you in writing...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. If the coworkers don't mind, then I'll give you one more minute in the back so you can move on. Here you are, Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Simeonov, unfortunately, one thing has become clear from your reply: the state has no adequate policy to support the children of Bulgarian immigrants. You've been in office for six months now, so I'm paying attention to one fact. No provisions under art. 17a, para. 9, p. Article 2 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply. 21, para. 6, p. The National Information System for Children in Need of Special Care and the Municipal Social Assistance Services have created and maintain registers for these children, you have just recognised it. For the purposes of § 1, para. 11, p. These are children at risk and the care for them must be strictly taken. Therefore, Mr. Simeonov, I take the liberty of offering you one thing: come into contact with UNICEF and let the study, which I quoted in 2015, be set as a goal and to do every year to have data on the children of Bulgarian immigrants. It won't be worth more than 12 or 15,000. BGN, but the social effect it will bring will be great.. will motivate these children to stay in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u162	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Halacheva, Mr. Vitanov, thank you for your recommendation. I don't know exactly how the detention of children will happen with this UNICEF study, it didn't make sense to me, but in general it is not bad to organise the creation of such statistics. It's really necessary. On the other hand, I dare express my personal opinion that these children are, as a rule, not at risk in all their volume. Of course, there are children who are largely deprived of any care, but there are children who are cared for extremely well. For example, Mr. Ermenkov and I are personally taken care of by our grandparents. We have not become more incompetent or more unfair citizens of this country, of our country, but this is another topic. Indeed, especially when it comes to children of minorities, where parental care is not at this level, what you have been talking about in statistics on increased crime, antisocial activity and so on. Thank you, however, for your concern. I'm going to look into this research. Indeed, this amount is not available if it is in this order. That's all I can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. This was the last question to Mr. Valeri Simeonov "Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy." Let's thank him for today's participation in parliamentary control. We move on to questions to the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Mr. Karakachanov. Question from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov on the Rules on the Construction and Activity of the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u165	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, this time for you is the question. Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov Higher Naval School, as well as the National Military University and the Military Academy are state schools and are headed by the Minister of Defence. Their main task is to prepare personnel for the needs of the Armed Forces and for the organisation of the military education system in 2002. The Naval School, thanks to the General Staff, is preserved as such and has not entered the National Military University as a faculty. This was then the request of the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence, but this request was not satisfied. Even then, it is unanimously determined that the head of the school should have the rank of a first-rank captain and that the reason for being a school and not a university is pointed out and that the graduates are not more than 20 students. However, in January 2016, the rank of head of the school was promoted to a Phlotilen administrator and in this year new preferences for the Naval School were observed in updating the regulations and acts for the establishment of military schools. Only in the draft Rules and Acts for the establishment of the Higher Naval School is the requirement that the head of the school be a habilitated person, although such a requirement under the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria does not exist. The question of whether the chiefs of military schools are habilitated or not is very sensitive. In 2009, such a requirement was introduced in the Law. It was subsequently canceled. The reason for this cancellation was that the opportunities for the development of the army officers were reduced and the connection between schools and the army was interrupted. In relation to the above, I would like to ask you the question: what does it require only in the Rules of Procedure and in the Act establishing the Higher Naval School to introduce the requirement that the head of the school be a habilitated person? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u166	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. For a response, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Mr. Karakachanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u167	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Ermenkov! According to the amendments and additions of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the regulations on the structure and operation of military academies, higher military schools, scientific organizations and professional colleges are issued by the Minister of Defence. In the implementation of the said Order from the beginning of the year drafts of regulations for the structure and activities of the Military Academy are being developed. In the course of work, it was found that, in view of the changes in the regulations, it is necessary to amend and supplement the acts for setting up academies and higher education schools. By my order of 8 August 2017 I appointed a Working Group to prepare final drafts and decisions of the National Assembly for the establishment of the Military Academy of Georgy Stoykov Rakovski and the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov in accordance with the Law on Defence and Armed Forces, the Law on Higher Education and the Decision of the National Assembly on the Conversion of Former Military Schools of Vasil Levski, Panayot Volov and Georgy Benkovski. at the National Military University of Vasil Levski and projects and regulations for the construction and operation of the Military Academy of Georgi Stoykov Rakovski, the National Military University of Vasil Levski and the Higher Military School of Nikola Yonkov Vapzarov. In accordance with art. 93, para. 2 of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces by acts for the establishment or transformation of military academies and higher military schools shall be defined their kind, name, registered office, subject of activity, management bodies, organisational structure and the real estate provided to them for management. It is apparent that, in order to ensure the legality of the regulations on the structure and operation of the Military Academy and higher military schools, they should comply with the acts of their establishment and, respectively, with their amendments and additions. As a result of the analysis made so far by the application of the provisions of the Law on Defence, the Law on Higher Education and the Law on the Development of the Academic Staff relating to military education, as well as the proposed proposals, it can be concluded that it is appropriate to draw up identical drafts of decisions amending and supplementing the decisions on the establishment of the Academy and higher military schools in accordance with the Law on Defence, the Law on Higher Education to reflect the specifics of each school. I am convinced that the chief should be a military officer who not only served in the Armed Forces, but also knows the higher education system in the country, be part of the academic staff, have gone through academic positions, and know all procedures under the Higher Education Act, the Academic Development Act and the Rules for the Implementation of the Academic Development Act. In accordance with art. 31, para. 1 of the Law on Higher Education the Rector is a habilitated person. He participated in the Council of Rectors, expressing the common interests of higher schools in front of state authorities. The Council of Rectors gives opinions and proposals and so on. In the military education system there is already a proven experience and an example in the face of the head of the Higher Naval School "Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov" who is a habilitated person. Currently, the Higher Naval School is among the 12 best maritime universities in the world. I believe that it is appropriate that the heads of the Academy and the higher military schools be habilitated so that they can fully manage the military-education institutions. The amendments made to the act for the establishment of the Higher Naval School of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov are not related to personnel changes. The goal is not to release some of the current superiors. In conclusion, I would like to say that Admiral Medakov is an officer and head of the military school, which can be set as an example. I personally do so whenever other types of armed forces raise questions about higher education. I give it as an example as a supervisor who has gained not only the necessary experience but can be used as an example. Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u168	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You had one minute left by Mr. Ermenkov at his request. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u169	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I have no doubt that this change was made not to fire anyone earlier. Moreover, as you know, with art. 160 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, at your decision, persons having a senior officer's rank and post in which habilitation is required may continue to take up their duties until the age of 60. In fact, the subject of asking the question was this particular one, is that the only reason why habilitation should be requested only for the head of the High Naval School? I fully share what you are saying that the military schools and the Military Academy are not only construction formations, but are educational, above all, and that those who really need to manage them, apart from construction training, must also have a concept of management of a higher education institution. Therefore, I ask you: will you still submit a proposal for a change in the Law again to introduce this requirement for other military universities, so that we do not leave it only to the subjective decision of one minister or another, or to one or another chief of military school, which offers the Minister the relevant regulations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u170	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u171	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Ermenkov, good offer. It deserves serious consideration. I'm available. It seems your theme is to your heart. As you know, I have always expressed my willingness to discuss any of the questions and topics related to the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u172	Thank you. There is a question from the MP Nikolay Tsonkov concerning the preparation of an agreement between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior for the joint use of the Institute of Defence. Here you go, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Tsvetan Lazarov is a scientific institution that works in the field of defence by doing research, developing research and applied projects, as well as scientific and technical developments and providing support for the introduction of new weapons, equipment and so on. In fact, the research, scientific and applied activities and the research and development work of the Institute are in the field of new developments related to C4I systems, technical provision, armaments. One main part of the work of the Institute is to produce the scientific and educational degree of Doctor, which is accredited in the field of technical sciences. Of course, in addition to these activities, the Institute of Defence has been involved for some time and new functions which are related to the development of technical procurement tasks. You know, as I do, that the development of these technical assignments at the Institute of Defence is a problem, because in a large part of these technical assignments and the subject matter of the orders does not have the necessary scientific and expert potential, and from this point of view many of the orders have problems in their implementation. On top of that, in August 2017, there was an agreement between you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, and the Minister of Interior for the development of a legal mechanism under which the Defence Institute will develop technical assignments for the Ministry of Interior. Given that there is not enough expertise and there is even a presence of corrupt practices and doubt about them in this direction, I would like to ask you: has such a joint group been established to develop a legal mechanism? How far did she get? Is such cooperation necessary between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior in the field of public procurement? However, I believe that the Ministry of Interior has sufficient resources, there is a directorate that deals with this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u174	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u175	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, dear Mr. Tsonkov! Regarding your question, I would like to inform you of the following. By my order of 3 August 2017 and by order of 7 August 2017 of the Minister of Interior, an Interdepartmental Working Group was established to study the existing regulations, the opportunities for joint use of the resources of the Institute of Defence "Professor Tsvetan Lazarov" and the preparation of an Agreement on bilateral cooperation between the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence. The purpose of this Agreement is to establish common principles and procedures for cooperation of mutual interest for the two ministries on the basis of the principles of equality and mutual benefit. The areas of cooperation under this Agreement shall be carried out in accordance with the rules of national law and the internal acts of the two ministries. The following areas of cooperation are provided for: technical and expert assistance, research, scientific cooperation, tactical and technical testing, laboratory tests and other areas of mutual interest in an arrangement between the two ministries. The forms of cooperation between the two countries are the following: implementation of bilateral scientific; scientific and technical and innovative programmes and projects; exchange of experience and consultations; exchange of scientific and technical information and documentation; exchange of results from scientific and technical activities to date; improvement of the contractual and legal basis of scientific and technological cooperation; exchange of information, documentation and scientific projects of mutual interest; exchange of scientific and technical information and documentation; exchange of results from scientific and technical activities to date; carrying out expertise on the results of scientific and innovation activities; methodological assistance in the development of tactical and technical assignments and technical specifications by the Institute of Defence With regard to the financial security of those activities, the Parties shall bear all the costs associated with the implementation of the activities in this Agreement on the basis of the principle of reciprocity. That is the answer to the question you are asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u176	Thank you, Minister Karakachanov. You have two minutes, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! I agree with the first part of the answer. It is good to have a joint cooperation, work to develop new research projects, introduce new technologies and everything that is related to innovation in the security system. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the Rules have been changed for some time, including the Order, which concerns the Director of the Institute of Defence. In this sense, the requirement for the Director to be a habilitated person, which I think is not correct at least not to say absurdly to a research institute director to be a non-habilitated person, is now over. Secondly, in the end, there is a large directorate at the Ministry of Defence, which is tasked with developing jobs and implementing public procurement. There, in my opinion, is a much higher potential for this activity. Let us let the Institute of Defence carry out its main function of developing innovative projects, scientific projects, applied projects, scientific and technical provision for the needs of the Ministry of Defence, but not to engage in developing technical assignments, because, as I said, this is a secondary function, there are no necessary experts in this area for any order. This creates problems for both you and the Ministry. Note, I am not convinced that precisely in this joint work between the two ministries to develop technical assignments will come to him nicely. It's more suspicious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u178	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. You don't want to take advantage of the back. We proceed to the next question by the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev about the repair of engines on MiG-29 aircraft in Poland. Here you are, Mr. Boychev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Karakachanov, each of your predecessors, coming to this post, was beginning to explain how he saved combat aviation and recorded huge achievements. That's why I took the liberty of asking you this question. The previous National Assembly, the 43rd, ratified the Agreement with the Republic of Poland on logistical support for the repair of MiG-29 aircraft engines. Then, here in this room, this has been seen as a huge progress, a huge achievement, there have been many speeches about how we have made a breakthrough and how from now on we will keep our Air Force on alert. So my question to you is this: how has this Agreement ended, what is the score of it, what is the final price that the Bulgarian state has paid for these engines? That was one of the great arguments that was put forward here. What is ultimately the extended resource that can be used by them, and are all these engines currently used for their intended purpose? There's always information that we don't have the amount of planes to carry the combat duty, and that creates a problem in the Air Force.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u180	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You have three minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u181	Dear Madam President, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Boychev! In accordance with the arrangements reached under the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on providing logistical support for MiG-29 aircraft, the following activities have been carried out so far, I give it in chronological form. At the end of 2015 and at the beginning of 2016 with flights of the Polish Air Force in Poland, six Bulgarian RD-33 engines were transported. On December 29, 2015 two Polish RD-33 engines were delivered to Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria for a period of 200 hours or two years, which occurred first. On 8 July 2016 the first two RD-33 Bulgarian engines were delivered on a flight of the Polish Air Force in Aviobaza. On 15 July 2016 the Ministry of Defence received information that repair of the next two Bulgarian engines was completed. In accordance with the provisions of the Agreement, the same shall be for temporary use in the Republic of Poland. On November 14th, the last two RD-33 engines were delivered. In this way, the Polish side completed the repair of the six engines under the agreement within the agreed time limits. Currently the Bulgarian Air Force continues the operation of the four Bulgarian and the two Polish engines delivered at the end of 2015. [[We are talking about the two Polish engines 2015]] , as reciprocal Polish side operates two renovated Bulgarian engines. Under the terms of the Agreement, these engines will be provided back to each of the Parties when operating 200 hours or two years. That was the chronology. The final price you are interested in is 1 million dollars in the Engine Repair Agreement. Twenty-three thousand. EUR per engine or a total of 6 million 138,000. EUR for the six repaired engines and the amount is fully paid on our part. The engine resource is extended by 350 hours, the guarantee period after the repair of the six Bulgarian engines is 200 hours or two years, which of the events occurred first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u182	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u183	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I wanted to hear this answer because this Agreement was presented as a major foreign policy success and a breakthrough for our country, which gave other opportunities to keep our combat aviation on alert. You know very well that this Agreement does not solve the issue of aircraft maintenance, so I have a few more questions. Is it true that one of the engines didn't work and it got out? If so, are the relevant guarantees made? Under the Agreement, the guarantee must be lodged with the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland. I say this because there is once again a big debate in the Bulgarian society about how and how to maintain Bulgarian aviation. Then it was claimed that this was the road and this was the way out of the agreement with Poland. Therefore, I would like to hear: Having already had one agreement, having the result, what are your intentions, Mr. Minister? Moreover, I have to admit that I was making a reference to how the debate in the Chamber went. I was disappointed to find that you supported this agreement with the Republic of Poland. In public now, at the moment, you are offering another option and another way out of how to maintain the combat readiness of our aviation, but my question is: has one of the engines really failed? How will a guarantee be made to remedy this accident? From now on, what will be the road by which the Bulgarian state will guarantee the maintenance of its military aviation?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u184	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Here's your coat, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u185	Dear Madam President, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Boychev! It is, last year, when we had the debate in this Chamber, and in the Defence Committee, I have asked questions about the subject of the engines that are subject to the Agreement, which you are quoting. The then leadership of the Ministry of Defence had decided to conclude this Agreement with the Republic of Poland. At this time this Agreement seemed the best option possible and gave breath to the Bulgarian fighter aviation. Personally, I think that repair and maintenance of our engines is best done by the producer country. That is precisely why, in the first month when I became Minister of Defence, I called for an official meeting with the Director General of RSK MIG, I invited him to Bulgaria. The meeting was held officially at the Ministry of Defence. Something that had not happened for how many years and for what reasons. There is a memorandum of intent between the Ministry of Defence and the RSK. The contract is signed by us. I expect literally these days to be signed by the Russian side and the task force to come and review and evaluate the engines so that we have a clear idea of how much this will cost and whether all aircraft will be subject to this agreement or only part of them. Everything depends on the price and the degree of modernisation that we can provide. Again, on this subject, you remember, in the last parliament there were very sharp debates. My vote at the time was because it was the fastest possible way, and any other decision that could have occurred or been imposed by the House would have wasted time. I don't want to go in, it's the easiest, many of my colleagues have done it to justify themselves with ancestors. I don't want to do this. That is why I say that my opinion and my decision was directly the meeting with the producer country, the producer company, and, I have said it several times publicly, I also say it from the stands of the National Assembly, without the admission of mediators of any of the countries, so that we can achieve better financial conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u186	This ended the participation of Krasimir Karakachanov "Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence in today's parliamentary control. We proceed to the answers of Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science. He will answer a question from the MPs Kristina Sidorova, Donka Simeonova and Violeta Zheleva about the quality of free snacks for children in preparatory groups and students from first to fourth grade. Here you go, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The complete, varied and balanced nutrition of children and students at an early age is not only a prerequisite for their health, normal development and growth, but a major factor in creating a healthy model of behavior. We ask this question because at the numerous meetings that the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria and the students from the first to fourth grade are held throughout the country. The question of healthy eating of the students and the quality of free snacks for the children from the preparatory groups and students from first to fourth grade has been placed many times. We are asking this question because we are constantly getting signals from worried parents about the unpleasant appearance, about the poor products from which snacks are made, because they do not have an expiration date or are not packed according to legal requirements. Again in the social network there is tension and parents start filming, uploading and commenting on free snacks. The media was also looking for a solution to this problem. Most of all, we ask this question because healthy eating of children and students is our shared responsibility. The funds for free snacks are provided by the state budget through a national programme to the Ministry of Education and Science, with in some municipalities the funds for a single breakfast are even less than 50 cents. We know that the Ministry of Education has set a number of requirements for the provision of free snacks for example compliance with Regulation No 37 of 21 July 2009 on the healthy eating of students, also Regulation No 9 on requirements for food quality and safety. The question of a reasonable compromise arises as to how and when such a good initiative can become a danger to the health of children and students. Please answer: Are the funds sufficient to provide quality free snacks? How does quality control? Are there violations and what measures will you take for quality free snacks for children from pre-school groups and students from first to fourth grade?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. Come in for an answer, Minister Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u189	Mrs. President, Mrs. Simeonova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The provision and allocation of the public budget target funds to support the feeding of children from preparatory groups and students from first to fourth grade in state and municipal kindergartens and schools shall be governed by the Regulation on the financing of institutions in the pre-school and school education system. Until its entry into force, they were settled by Decree 308 of 20 December 2010. Both regulations indicate that the targeted funds are provided for the provision of breakfast, milk, vegetables or fruit to assist students from the first to the fourth grade covered by the full-time organisation of the school day. The Council of Ministers shall, for each budgetary year, determine the amount of legislation to support the feeding of children and students, which shall be the basis for the allocation of funds by senior authorising officers. The standard for 2017 amounts to BGN 72. to a child, respectively a student, and for 2018 this size is reserved. The senior authorising officers shall allocate the funds received in proportion to the number of children and students on the basis of requests on a template submitted by the principals of kindergartens and schools. The Director shall enter into a contract with a company to provide one of the selected activities. When breakfast, milk, fruit or vegetables are selected, the contract may indicate what days of the week students receive them. By decision of the director in the contract with the company providing snacks or lunches, it can be signed the company's obligation to offer a preliminary weekly menu for coordination. Food providers are obliged to comply with the provisions of Regulation No 37 of 2009 on the health nutrition of students issued by the Ministry of Health and Ordinance No 9 of 2011 on the specific requirements for the safety and quality of food offered in kindergartens, school chairs and retail outlets in the territory of schools and kindergartens, as well as on foods offered in organised events for children and students issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The control over the implementation of the regulations is assigned respectively to the authorities of the state health control and to the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency without canceling the control functions of the contracting authority, which is most often the principal of the school or kindergarten. Yes, indeed, we have the constant task of improving the quality of snacks and in general of school meals, of eating at school, in kindergartens. I have entrusted colleagues to form a working group and to prepare a report with proposals in this regard. We have invited the specific organization that is committed to the petition to improve nutrition. With regard to whether the funds are sufficient, no, is not enough! They're never enough. In this case, we also have that they have not been updated in recent years. We have different types of schools at the meetings that you mentioned you were having, you heard this, and I am constantly in communication mode with the system of different types of schools depending on what snacks they want, that is, we cannot set common requirements. We have schools where students come from socially better families. In many cases they go to school for breakfast, it is more important for them to be something small, but much healthier. We have schools where the socially weak students are more. It is more important for them to have more calories. We will look for a differentiated approach, as well as the inclusion of parents in the discussion. The sensible compromise you said, I don't think there's any danger to health. Where there is one, it is usually reacted by the institutions, but we need to improve quality and increase funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u190	Thank you, Minister Valchev. For a line there is a Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u191	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I listened carefully to Minister Valchev's reply, and I can say that in this reply only one thing was positive... that the Ministry has taken over the problem and is looking for a solution. I'm extremely puzzled by what I've heard that you're going to be looking for differentiation. So children who are poorer need more calorie food, will eat this, [[shows pictures with food]] , and others who are richer did not need such a calorie meal... will eat healthy. I believe that this is some mistake of speech and you don't mean it because it's very scary. I didn't hear an answer to the question whether the funds would increase? I guess the money stays the same, because that's how much you get a child's day, you might get what I just showed you. Unfortunately, everything in Bulgaria is rising, all prices are rising, food products are growing, too. I don't believe that with 48 cents our children will get a healthy meal, to my great regret. I'll give you these pictures. I hope you put them somewhere in your office so that you can see them, and when it comes to our children's food, when it comes to the means that are devoted to feeding our children, you can look at them and think about whether a little more money should be spent on a healthy diet. Think that there are children with poor social status, for which perhaps the apple or banana at school, or healthy food is the only healthy food they will eat during the day. I'm giving you the photos, and I hope that what you said about separation, you don't mean it. [[Passing the pictures to the Minister.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u192	That was Mrs. Sidorova's line. You have an opportunity for a doppelganger, Mr. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u193	Thank you for the line. What I've told you is that we're not ready with a proposal. We're still in the middle of a discussion. This differentiation can also be the funding of a child, such differentiation we have. We now have the possibility that some of these funds or any means can be used for lunch or where there is no demand for inclusion in this assistance. Here it is rather right to talk about a decentralised choice that includes parents in this. In no case will the Ministry set any framework, at least it cannot be applicable to all educational institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u194	Thank you, Minister Valchev. Procedure please, Mr. Kutev, for procedure. What kind of procedure? It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u195	Mrs. Chairman! I apologize for taking the procedure in the way of conduct, but it is dictated by my enormous amazement when yesterday I looked at the website of Parliament and found myself not another, but I am a member of parliament with the most penalties imposed within this National Assembly. Actually, they're three, two of which are mine. These punishments have always been imposed on me by Mrs. Karayancheva. I'm sorry she's not bringing her in right now so I can speak in her presence.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u196	Me too.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u197	In this case, I would like to address to you my sharp disagreement with this. The first is on April 21st, when in fact in a dispute over water in Haskovo I had mentioned that the ministers had slept through the fact that there were several studies about water pollution and as a result came the scandal. This turned out to be enough for Mrs Karayancheva to point out to me: that I am using the parliamentary tribune for political campaigning. If the fact that they slept through the ministers is a political campaign, that I do not understand it and is absolutely false. Secondly, parliament is, after all, an authority in which there are political forces, and it is normal to speak politically. I see no reason for my punishment by Mrs. Karayancheva. The second case, however, is even more scandalous. This is when I read a statement in which I quoted Anton Todorov several times. I quoted what he said about GERB, about Boyko Borisov and so on. These quotes, before he knew that I quote Anton Todorov, she was terribly outraged and punished me for it, I quote: I am making an official remark to you! I will not accept insulting qualifications to the Prime Minister. She was like the Komsomol secretary of the Ambrazur here, behind me. At the same time, he found out that these were quotes from Anton Todorov. Why, in this situation, did she punish me and not Anton Todorov, I can't understand? In either case, there is no reason for me to be punished and at the moment on the website of the National Assembly to stand my name? that I have been punished twice by Tsveta Karayancheva. Why exactly is Tsveta Karayancheva punishing me twice, I can only explain with some strange unclean thoughts of hers. I have no idea. It's some kind of fixation in me, most likely. I ask you to punish Mrs. Karayancheva for wrongful punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u198	For Mrs Karayancheva's impure thoughts, the question should probably be clarified. The procedure was really weird. You took advantage of her. We continue with a question by the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Irena Anastasova regarding the management of the National Centre for the Improvement of the qualification of pedagogical specialists. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u199	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! Our question with Professor Klisarova is related to the activity and rather the management of the National Centre for the Improvement of the qualification of pedagogical specialists. The question is: what are the criteria for selection and appointment of the last four Directors of the Centre for the period 2016 - 2017? What are the duties of the Director and Deputy Director of the Centre and do you believe that for that period the Centre has effectively implemented the objectives set out in its activities? These questions are raised by the questions of many other questions by fellow teachers and directors about the activities of the Centre. No doubt, this is an important activity in the context of qualifications requirements for workers in the education system and is extremely necessary. The question is: is the work of the Centre and, respectively, its leadership effective, are the objectives achieved in the implementation of which this structure of the Ministry exists? The review of the official website of the Center shows that during this year, from January to the present time, there were trainings of ten groups of teachers and directors in July and eight in June. It is hardly justified the existence of such an institution if in ten months he organizes and conducts 18 trainings and this is by catalog. I mean, maybe there's less to it. Apparently, there is also a personnel problem at the Centre, since in less than a year there are four appointed directors. I can't imagine what a supervisor would decide or do if the average time to stay in that position is from one to three months, except, of course, to appoint whomever he chooses and also to fire whomever he chooses.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u200	The weather, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u201	One second to finish the paragraph. According to the structure of the Centre for 2017, published on the site, the employees in it are 16, including Director and Deputy Director. Does the establishment plan correspond to the structure because the structure itself does not correspond to what is stated in the Rules of Procedure of the Centre and because, for example, there is no position in the cited Rules of Procedure of the Vice-President, nor are any of its duties described, but in the structure and in the name of the members of the team such position not only exists, but it is occupied by Mr. Petar Zarev, who at the same time is Deputy Director of Administrative Affairs at the 20th Primary School in the capital, where perhaps by chance is Mrs. Anelia Andreeva, former Director of the Center? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Come in for an answer, Minister Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u203	Mrs. President, Mrs. Anastasova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The National Centre for Upgrading the qualification of pedagogical specialists is a state service unit which is led and represented by a director appointed by the Minister of Education and Science on the basis of a competition conducted under the Labour Code. The minimum specific requirements for taking up the position of the Director-General of the National Centre are defined by the positional characteristics established by the Minister of Education and Science. All those holding the designated position for the period 2016 - 2017 were eligible for the occupation according to the established job description. I have hereby appointed the Director on 17 July 2017 as a temporary acting member. The same has a long experience of over 15 years in the field of training and improving the qualification of pedagogical specialists, holding an expert and management position in the administrative unit of the Ministry, responsible for the qualification and career development of pedagogical specialists. With regard to the latest directors we have presented you this information, I will only add that two of them left of their own free will, which is one of the reasons for turnover. Regarding whether we have a problem with the frequent change of leadership, yes, this is certainly a problem. The task before us is to hold a competition in the coming months with a view to providing the opportunity to take over the post by a director who shows the best qualities of the competition. The Centre shall carry out its activities under the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Centre for Training and Qualification in the Educational System, pending the establishment of new regulations. The duties and powers of the Director and Deputy Director are described in the Rules of Procedure of the Director and his activities at this time. Their official characteristics are detailed. Regarding your question of obligations. These obligations are: in the first place, planning, organizing, controlling and responsible for the overall activity of the Centre; to prepare and present to the Ministry of Education and Science for validation by the Minister of Education and Science the Annual Plan for the activities of the Center. I will not list everyone, there are also the duties of the Deputy Director to assist the Director in the implementation of the main activities of coordinating the process of development of the Centre's Annual Plan and the Annual Report-analysis. With regard to this, could the potential of the Centre be used to a greater extent, to enhance its activity.. In fact, 18 trainings are not very few, but apart from the trainings of the catalog The Center performs activities under the National Program.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Perhaps this is what is not seen on the site, but this does not mean that there is no possibility of further enhancement of its activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u204	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Professor Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u205	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I would like to draw your attention only to three points. At the moment Mrs. Lilyana Drumeva performs three jobs, you know that. There's no legal violation, but she's also a temporary director. Mr. Petar Zarev is a temporary deputy director. She is, at the same time, an adviser to a civil contract and, at the same time, retired. Mr. Zarev is also retired, Deputy Director of the Center and Deputy Director of the School. Regarding their administrative qualities, as soon as they occupy all the positions, I think we should go back to the beginning of the 90s and know the problems at the Shumen Regional Inspectorate, now RIO Shumen. Not only the press, but I also have the third, their great administrative experience, especially of Mr. Zarev, who in 2013 was the chairman of the Committee on Evaluation of Public Procurement Projects with Subject "Training of pedagogical specialists for prevention of school violence, aggression and other negative events." I will not say the project, only on the basis of an audit report from the Ministry of Education and Science, which we did, I think, together, we punished Director Peter Zarev and then the Ministry of Education and Science had paid 2 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. as a result of unverified costs of this poor financial activity. These are the facts, I think we need a lot of urgent measures for changes in the management of this Center, because its purpose is extremely important when we say that the teacher is the deciding factor for quality training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u206	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Here you are for the coat, Minister Valchev. You will not take this opportunity. We are going to ask the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Stoyan Mirchev about providing capacity for the management of the Operational Program "Science and education for smart growth" and possible loss of funds. You're welcome to develop the question, Professor Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u207	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The current implementation of the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" is accompanied by a number of problems related, first and foremost, with the availability of capacity by the Ministry of Education and Science. We know that together we had a joint committee where we discussed the issues needed so to do and solve the problems that we have with the European Commission, so that the result would be a minimal loss of funds. Two weeks ago, a Decision of the Council of Ministers established the Executive Agency, which was absolutely necessary under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" which had to take over the functions of a managing body. According to the published project, the number of this Agency amounted to 106 pieces, of which 24 were for General Administration. For comparison at the moment, before the General Directorate of Structural Funds and International Educational Programs it was with 111 state figures and with a much smaller administration. In this case, I would like to stress that we need to prove this capacity of this Agency as a managing authority, and my questions are related to: Will reducing the number of employees affect capacity? Should the creation of the new administrative units pass the necessary accreditation because this Agency should start working? What is the risk of reducing funds under the Operational Programme?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u208	Thank you, dear Professor Klisarova. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u209	Mrs. President, Mrs. Klisarova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With effect from 1 November this year, the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" is a functional independent administrative unit. The Executive Agency was established in connection with the finding in the audit report of the European Commission on the need to divide the functions between the managing authority of the Operational Programme and the Ministry as a specific beneficiary of the projects financed by the same programme. The new Executive Agency has become fully operational and commitments under European and national law are being implemented. The procedural rules for its management and management and control systems have been updated, reflecting the recommendations from the preliminary audit report of the European Commission. As regards the need for re-accreditation of the managing authority, I inform you that none of this is necessary. With regard to the need to improve administrative capacity, I would like to assure you that we are working on this matter as a priority. In fact, at the joint committee, we have highlighted three challenges in general to the Operational Programme. Perhaps what we can do best to improve the work of the managing authority is precisely to build administrative capacity. Regarding the other challenge, the implementation of the recommendations from the European Commission's Audit Report, what we can say, is that by 1 November, we have implemented all the recommendations that are the Ministry's commitment, with the exception of those of a permanent nature, and this implementation is to be assessed. Part of these recommendations is the establishment of the Executive Agency, respectively the division of functions. The third challenge is related to the delays on the first axis of the Operational Programme, which back in time can hardly be corrected as we cannot return the clock. In terms of capacity. The establishment itself in the Executive Agency makes it possible to improve capacity. One of the European Commission's requirements, and my requirement is that all executives be elected on the basis of a competition. This will happen, although at the time of these managerial functions there are appointed employees who are temporary executives. In the coming weeks, such competitions are to be announced. With regard to remuneration, the establishment of the Executive Agency also allows to raise remuneration and attract specialists, if you wish, from other managing bodies. The managing authority's numbers are not reduced. Why? Because the Managing Authority did not include the entire Directorate-General for Structural Funds and International Education Programmes.It included 96 staff members, without the Department of External European Programs.The Department, which remained in the Ministry because its functioning was not related to the functions of the Managing Authority and the management of the Operational Programme.Science and education for smart growth. This was one of the donors' requirements for the mechanisms that the External European Programmes Department implemented. That is, we actually have 5 units of increase in the composition of the managing authority, but it is aimed at the administrative services of the Agency. All procedures must be set up for the financial management and control system, all rules on the functioning of the Agency. Therefore, I have also seconded several ministry officials to assist in the construction of all these internal systems and procedures in the managing authority at the initial stage. With regard to the loss of funds, the funds for the two announced procedures for the construction of centres of excellence and centres of competence should be agreed by the end of the year. Given the ongoing and forthcoming talks between the managing authority and the competent services of the European Commission at this stage, I would not like to commit to a specific amount, and what I have shared with the Commission is the maximum, potential volume of funds by which the programme can be reduced and, in particular, the first axis of 70 million. lv. With regard to the Second and Third Axis, at the moment, mostly thanks to the system projects, but both grant operations last year have cost. I hope that after the recovery of the funds, we will have no problems in terms of the intermediate objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u210	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You are entitled to two supplementary questions, Professor Klisarova. You have two minutes for this.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u211	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I mean, what you said pleases me for this, because without this capacity, we have no way of realizing the projects we have staked. It is good that this Agency was created on time and quickly, but let the instructors that are needed around it and around it become really timely so that we can resolve the serious issues. What do we have left? By Priority Axis 2, did these five procedures total 25 million start and what happened to the Third and Fourth Rates, where were 99 million and a half? This is how the funds are planned and planned activities are planned by the end of 2017. I hope much that they will happen. My second question is: when will the results of the evaluation of projects for centres of excellence and competence be disclosed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u212	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Three minutes, dear Minister, to answer these supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u213	Thank you. I'll start with the second question. It is precisely because of this functional independence of the managing authority and because it has to make decisions on its own, perhaps they will not provide you with the most accurate information. It is currently the Head of the Managing Authority who has to take a decision, and this is the Executive Director of the Agency. It must also decide with regard to valuation reports whether these valuation reports should be returned for consideration, whether to be approved or rejected. With regard to the first question, yes, the fact is that we have a bit of a delay if we look at the Indicative Annual Programme in terms of new operations. We have identified the new operations that we will develop and present to the next Monitoring Committee in the spring, in fact to the next one, as the next one is coming. One of our recommendations was to make all operations more focused, improve the programming process. That's what I hope we're doing right now. We have identified to a large extent the operations, we have fallen behind in several operations that are prepared as choices, but will only be approved when we have, so to speak, unblocking and adopting the implementation of the recommendations by the European Commission. Such an example is the Project for the operation "Qualification of pedagogical specialists." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u214	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Asking allows expression of attitude within two minutes. Here you are, Professor Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u215	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I see that the work at the Ministry of Education and Science has been quite activated in connection with the Operational Program. For Bulgaria, I think it is extremely important, since we say that education is a priority and we all think so and the development of science accordingly. We must not allow ourselves to lose money from European money for science, because it is difficult for our country to allocate such funds. One more thing I would like to say: a large part of the universities are directly involved in European scientific programmes, such as Horizon 2020. Here I will say about the will of the Ministry, which supports absolutely this application to universities under this Programme, and about the cooperation, about the rapid reaction that is needed. Without them, we won't be able to participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u216	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. We come to the final question of today's parliamentary control. He is appointed by the MPs Bogdan Botsev, Nikolay Boshkov regarding the personnel provision of principals of schools in Blagoevgrad district. Here you go, Mr. Botsev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u217	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! With the entry into force of the Preschool and School Education Act, the institutions in the education system face new challenges both to reflect on the new regulatory requirements and their implementation. The stable and competent management of each institution is of paramount importance. In this regard, we ask for your answer to the following: what is the degree assurance of principals of schools in Blagoevgrad, where the temporary performers of this position are about 15? Is it not more logical to focus the efforts of the RIO to solve these problems and not, for example, in carrying out more than 20 checks for a period of two years at the Professional High School?Nikola Stoychev in the town of Razlog of a director who has a contract after a competition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u218	Thank you, Mr. Botsev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u219	Dear President, dear Mr. Botsev, dear Mr. Boshkov! The total number of educational institutions in the territory of Blagoevgrad district is 134 of them 112 directors are of fixed-term employment, of fixed-term employment contracts until the holder returns 5 and 17 are appointed until taking office on the basis of a competition. According to the provision of art. 217, para. 2 of the Law on pre-school and school education, the heads of regional education departments terminate employment contracts with the directors of municipal schools, state schools, public and municipal centers for special education support, as well as the centers for personal development support, whose activities are not organised by schools, as well as astronomical observatories. Alinea 5 of the same provision defines the position of the Head of Staff in the state and municipal institutions under this Law to be taken on the basis of a competition under the terms and conditions of the Labour Code. With a view to adopting a single approach by all competition committees appointed respectively by the Minister of Education and Science, or by the heads of regional education departments, and to ensuring equal access to the application for the occupation of the Office of the Educational Institutions whose contracts are concluded and terminated by the Minister of Education and Science or by the heads of the Educational Administrations, the Framework rules for holding a competition for the occupation of the position of the Educational Institutions are in the process of drawing up. The purpose of these Framework Rules is to ensure a transparent competition procedure on the principle of competition based on the professional and business qualities of candidates for the post. The members of the competition committees will allow candidates under the same conditions and will assess their professional and business qualities according to the same criteria and will rank them using a single system for the formation of the final result. Contests for taking up the position of the Head of Staff are to be announced on the territory of Blagoevgrad district. Checks at the Professional High School of Tourism and Food Technology "Nikola Stoychev" in the town of Razlog were carried out on the occasion of the complaints and signals received in connection with the admission of students for the academic year 2016. There are also checks carried out on a proposal of the Director, as well as monitoring on the implementation of the activities of the projects. This is the project "Your hour" "Science and education for smart growth" and the National Program "Without free time" adopted by Decision No 216 of the Council of Ministers of 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u220	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Boshkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u221	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Once again it becomes clear that the educational system in Blagoevgrad region seems to be more scandalizing the public and those involved with the education teachers in it. The checks carried out prove that there are no infringements insofar as it became clear from your report. Once again, the question arises about the double standard of personnel security for managers and educators in public schools in the area. We are witnessing another case of checks carried out according to the model GERB. You just said that you would be looking at professionalism, competence, but in practice this is not the case on the field. In our meetings with colleague Botsev in the field we receive numerous signals from educators in relation to directors who have been launched by the Head of the RVO who are doing political orientation in terms of pedagogists and school staff. I think that they are called to study and educate our children, not to engage in such political appointments, as their main and primary goal is the stable and competent management of each institution. Therefore, I appeal: please stop these political races on the territory of Blagoevgrad district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-10.u222	Thank you, Mr. Boshkov. There was an appeal here, there was no specific questions and no reply. Thank you. The Minister of Education and Science does not wish to take advantage of the right of the duplicate. That concludes today's parliamentary control. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your participation in it, as well as the MPs who remain in the Chamber patiently. The next meeting is on 15 November 2017, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
