ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Colleagues, we are continuing this week's program for today's final plenary day at the Forty-third National Assembly. Coming up next: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL CODEX. Importer: Council of Ministers. Report for the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u2	Thank you, Madam President. A report on the Draft Law supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 602-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 November 2016, adopted on the first vote on 20 December 2016. "Accordance to the Civil Procedure Code.' The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. 'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the division: Paragraph 2? a proposal from the National Representative Svilen Ivanov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the version until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... By 31 January 2017, the Council of Ministers shall adopt the amendments and additions in Tariff No 1 to the Law on State Fees for Fees collected by the courts, prosecution, investigation services and the Ministry of Justice (promise, SG No. 71 of 1992) and the Tariff for State Fees, which are collected by the courts of the Civil Procedure Code (promise, SG No. 22 from 2008) deriving from this law. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 3 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u3	Statements on the bill reported for second vote? I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u4	Madam President, honourable Members, I am proposing an amendment: In § 2 the words "January 31" shall be replaced by "February 28"
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u5	Let's do it: "Till 28 February." - What's the line? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law supported by the Commission; § 1 by importer, fully supported by the Commission; the name of the division. 120 MPs voted: 114, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u6	A statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u7	Which paragraph do you want to make a statement on?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u8	Transitional and final provisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u9	We have adopted a transitional and final vote on this. We are now in voting mode at § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u10	Then finally, at the last paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u11	I put to the vote Mr. Ivanov's proposal in § 2 instead of We are voting on Mr. Ivanov's proposal made in the Chamber. They voted 132 MPs: 120 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the full version of § 2. They voted 119 MPs: 111, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. [[Reply from MP Petar Slavov.]] We're in voting mode. [[Reply from MP Petar Slavov.]] We're listening to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u12	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like, in the form of an editorial proposal, to make a proposal for a new "Transitional provision" regarding the changes which, as you recall, I think last week was either the previous one, we voted on the problems with these private arbitration courts. If you remember, then we have done something quite good, which is in the interests of Bulgarian citizens, but we have allowed a technical inaccuracies to which Bulgarian Industrial Association lawyers, from the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, i.e. all respected institutions, to which there have been international arbitrage courts for, I would say, decades. What has been missed with those changes is to arrange for the international element in legitimate cases with an international element, which practically brings these chambers to them. I propose, as an editorial proposal, by means of a transitional provision in the form of a new paragraph in the International Commercial Arbitration Act...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u13	Is he the subject of the first vote in the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the GPC?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u14	Madam President, this bill isn't, but it's the same procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u15	Thank you, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u16	Let me finish my sentence. The same procedure we used last week when we arranged the same matter in relation to the arbitration courts. If you'll allow me to read it for the record and to be voted by colleagues. To say: Where the debtor does not have a permanent address or registered office in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the application shall be submitted to the Sofia City Court. That's the whole point of the editorial proposal. It will then be reflected in its systematic place in art. 405, para. 3 of the GPC with the exact same text at the end of the sentence. Thank you and please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u17	Dear Mr. Slavov, from any other MP who is not a lawyer, I would accept such a proposal, but for a second vote to propose an amendment to a law which has not been the subject of a debate at first reading, means that you want in one sitting twice, the first and second vote on a single bill. This is not an editorial proposal, which is why it is unacceptable. I vote on the Commission proposal, which does not support the text of the importer for § 3 and proposes to be rejected. Vote 112 MPs: for 109, against none, abstention 3. The proposal has been adopted, and with this, the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the GPC to the Second Voting. The next item is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE OWNITY AND USE OF EARTHS OF EARTHS. There's a second reading report. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Report on Amending and Supplementing Bill of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, No 654-01-141, submitted by the National Representative Ivan Stankov on 22 December 2016 and adopted at the first vote on 13 January 2017. The law on ownership and use of agricultural land is amended and supplemented by the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Under § 1, there is a proposal of the MPs Hristov and Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37c, para. The sixth sentence is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u19	Are there any statements on the name of the Bill and § 1? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law and § 1. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u20	According to § 2 there is a proposal of the MPs Hristov and Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... A new article shall be created. Art. 37g. (1) Land use tables, measures and meadows may be established under an agreement between owners and/or users of livestock holdings with pasture farm animals registered in the Integrated Information System of BABBH. The Agreement shall be approved annually by 30 December for the following calendar year. (2) The persons under para. 1 which meets the conditions of art. 37th, para. 4 may submit by 31 October to the Municipal Agriculture Office on the location of pastures, meres and meadows an application on a model approved by the Minister of Agriculture and Food for participation in an agreement. The application shall be submitted in person or by proxy and, where possible, submitted in an optical medium. (3) The application shall indicate the properties used under contracts registered in the municipal agricultural office and/or property documents with which the person under para. 1 wishes to participate in the agreement. To the application, persons shall apply a declaration that they do not have obligations under para. Art. 12, Art. 34, para. Art. 6 and art. 37c, para. 7, as well as liabilities to the state and municipal land fund and are not related persons within the meaning of the Commercial Law with persons having such obligations. (4) The preparation of the agreement shall be led by a committee for each land for which applications under para. 2 and declarations under art. 37b, para. 1. By 5 November, the Director of the Regional Directorate-General for Agriculture shall appoint a commission whose composition shall be determined in accordance with art. 37c, para. 1. (5) The area of properties with a permanent use of pastures, measures and meadows for which no contracts have been concluded and no declarations under art. 37b, para. 1, with the exception of the properties of the state and municipal land fund, shall be distributed with the agreement between the persons under para. 1. (6) The Agreement shall be drawn up by 10 December in a model approved by the Minister for Agriculture and Food, as art. 37c, para. 2 sentences first, second and third sentences apply accordingly. (7) For the preparation of the agreement the Committee under para. 4 to 10 November provides to the persons under para. 1: 1. details of the agricultural contracts registered in the municipal office for use and/or documents for the ownership of pastures, meres and meadows declared or declared for: (a) use within their real limits; (b) participation in an agreement; 2. current reference under para. 9; 3. details of obligations under para. Art. 12, Art. 34, para. Art. 6 and art. 37c, para. 7); 4. the amount of the average annual rent payment for the land. (8) Person under para. 1, to which an area is allocated greater than the area defined in Art. 1. 37th, para. 4 applies to the agreement a declaration on the properties that will be declared for support under the Agricultural Support Act. The declaration is based on a model approved by the Minister of Agriculture and Food. (9) The Commission shall examine whether the persons referred to in para. 1 shall comply with the conditions laid down in Article 1. 37th, para. 4 based on an official reference prepared and provided by BABBH for all registered by 20 October of the current year in the Integrated Information System of BABBH: 1. establishments; 2. owners or users of registered establishments; 3. pasture farm animals at the establishments. (10) The Commission shall, by 20 December, draw up a report to the Director of the Regional Directorate-General for Agriculture, which shall contain data on the areas under para. 5, their owners, the due rent payment, the areas under para. 7, p. 1 as well as data on whether the conditions under art. 37th, para. 4. The agreement and the declarations under para. shall apply to the report. 8. (11) Based on the report under para. 10 The Director of the relevant Regional Directorate of Agriculture by 30 December shall issue a model order approved by the Minister of Agriculture and Food to approve the agreement and the allocation of the arrays for use. The order shall be issued immediately, as art. 37c, para. 5 and 6 shall apply accordingly. (12) Person under para. 1 under the order under para. 11 are defined areas under para. 5 shall be paid to an account for foreign funds of the respective Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Rural Development in the amount of the average annual rent payment for the land within one month of the publication of the order, as art. 37c, para. 7 shall apply accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u21	Paragraph 2 statements? I won't. We vote. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u22	There is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova. The motion has been withdrawn. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. According to § 3 there is a proposal from the national representative Rumen Hristov and the national representative Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. For grazing agreements, meria and meadows for calendar year 2017 the time limits referred to in art. 37g is extended by 4 months. There is a proposal from the National Representative Rumen Zhelev and the National Representative Rumen Hristov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ For the economic year 2016-2017, arrays for the use of permanent crops may be created under the conditions and under the terms of art. 37b and 37c, applying the following deadlines: 1. for submission of a declaration under art. 37b, para. 1 and an application under art. 37b, para. By 20 February 2017, the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and to the Council a report on the implementation of this Regulation. 2. for the designation of the Commission under art. 37c, para. By 5 March 2017, the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and to the Council a report on the implementation of this 3. for the conclusion of an agreement under art. 37c, para. 2 and distribution of land use by arrays under art. 37c, para. 3, p. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2). 4. for preparing a report and issuing an order for the distribution of the arrays in the land under art. 37c, para. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 5 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 5 (2). 5. for announcing the order under art. 37c, para. 5.. until 10 April 2017.......................................................................................................... There is a proposal of the MPs Rumen Hristov and Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In the Agricultural Support Act (prom., SG...) in art. 41 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 5 words.............................................................................. 37c, para. 4 or 10s are replaced by.......................................................................................................... 37c, para. 4 or 10 and art. 37g, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1. 2. In para. 2, p. 4 after the words................................................................................................ 37g, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1. 3. In para. 4 words..37c, para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning mechanisms for control There is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 6: ........................................................... In the Agricultural Landing Act (promise, SG...) in art. 3 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 sentence third is deleted; 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: A lease agreement may be concluded with a co-owner of agricultural land whose property is more than 50 per cent of the ideal parts of a co-owner's property or a co-owner authorised by co-owners holding a total of more than 50 per cent of the ideal parts of the co-owner's property. The mandate must be with a notary certification of signatures and content. In these cases, relations between co-owners shall be settled according to art. 30, para. 3 of the Property Act. 3. Allinea 5 is canceled. The Commission proposes to establish § 7. .................................................... Where a lease contract is concluded under the Agricultural lease Act until the entry into force of this Law by only some of the co-owners of the agricultural land, the relations between them shall be settled under art. 30, para. 3 of the Property Act. This contract cannot be opposed to a tenant under a lease contract concluded with a co-owner of the same property that was previously entered into the office of the holding. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u23	Are there any statements on the reported texts? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! With the amendment of art. 3, para. 4 of the Agricultural lease Act creates an important legal prerequisite for termination or at least minimization of an almost 10-year vicious practice with the possibility of the lease being concluded by only one of the co-owners of the agricultural land, as the previous version of the paragraph allows. The cases were not isolated where the current version of the provision cited, on the one hand, deprived the co-owners of the agricultural land of the possibility of using the property which is legally enshrined in the Property Act and, on the other hand, of the possibility that the co-owner who entered into a lease to use the land in a way preventing other co-owners from doing so. This eased regime for the conclusion of lease agreements on agricultural land has actually created real prerequisites for violating the rights of co-owners. In particular, they were not rarely deprived of the possibility of obtaining a lease from the use of the land in proportion to their share or the rent provided for in the contract proved to be less than the market. As a Member of the National Assembly, I have been repeatedly approached by citizens with similar cases and there have been cases of co-owners with one 17th to conclude a contract, co-owner with one tenth ideal part to conclude a contract, once there were one twenty-four ideal parts, and in the contracts themselves there were clauses unacceptable to the tenants. There was then a suspicion of abuse of the law which gives the present provision. When co-owners are related, and not only then, it leads to a worsening of their relationship. I would like to add that, with the specific legislative proposal, the special Law (lex specialis), in this case, the Agricultural Landing Act is harmonised with the general law, the Property Act, whose provision in art. 32 provides that the common item is used and managed in accordance with the decision of co-owners holding more than half of it. Unfortunately, this change will be accepted, but it will not meet the changes that occurred in the contracts already concluded. There is virtually no possibility of spoiling the contracts concluded so far which violate the interests of the co-owners not involved in the transaction. The law will be in effect from now on. Thus we will create a regulation that corresponds to life's logic and avoid the possibility of conflicts between co-owners and violation of their right to property in the future.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u25	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote the name of the section of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of They voted 101 MPs: 99, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposals have been adopted, with this in the second vote and this Bill. Next item supposed: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW FOR REGIOAL DEVELOPMENT. Report for the second vote Mr. Zelenogorski, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u26	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Report for the second vote of the Law on Supplement to the Law on Regional Development: "Accordance to the Law on Regional Development" The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u27	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. Colleagues, speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law and paragraphs by importer from 1st to 4th including, fully supported by the Commission. Vote 100 MPs: 95 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Last item of our legislative programme today: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT FOR THE DISCLOSURE BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND CONSORCIUM IBERDROLA INGENIERIA Y CONSTRUCTION S. A. U and BELGOPROCESS NV. Report from the Energy Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on Compensation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Consortium IBERDROLA INGENIERIA Y CONSTRUCTION S. A. U and BELGOPROCESS NV, No 502-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 March 2015. At its regular meeting on 26 March 2015, the Energy Commission discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on Compensation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Consortium IBERDROLA INGENIERIA and BELGOPROCESS NV, signed on 23 May 2014 in Sofia. The meeting of the Ministry of Energy attended: Mr. Nikolay Nikolov Deputy Minister of Energy, Mr. Nikolay Nalbantov Director of Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development and from the Nuclear Regulation Agency Mrs. Julia Dimitrova. The bill was presented by Mr. Nikolay Nikolov and he explained that the signing of the Compensation Agreement was provided for by the provision of Section 7.2 The Framework Agreement was ratified by a law adopted by the 39th National Assembly on 28 March 2002. The contract implemented by the consortium is worth 30 million. EUR, with one third of this amount being from Bulgarian funding, which is paid by the State-owned enterprise "Radio-active waste" through the Fund "Radio-active waste." In the event of a possible nuclear accident and potential damage, the payment of the compensation will be covered by the annual insurance contracts. The draft decision submitted will not result in a direct or indirect impact on the state budget. By decision of the Council of Ministers of 22 January 2014 the Agreement on Compensation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Consortium IBERDROLA INGENIERIA and BELGOPROCESS NV was approved, subject to subsequent ratification. On behalf of the Bulgarian Government, the Agreement was signed by the Minister of Economy and Energy on 23 May 2014. The Nuclear Regulatory Agency has no notes and supports the proposed Draft for ratification of the Agreement. As a result of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Energy Committee with 11 votes in favour of.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. A report from the Committee on Budget and Finance follows the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u30	♪ I can't believe under a bill for ratification of the Agreement on Compensation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Consortium IBERDROLA INGENIERIA Y CONSTRUCTION S. A. U and BELGOPROCESS NV, No 502-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 March 2015. The signing of the Compensation Agreement is justified by Section 7.2 of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) on the activities of the International Fund for Assistance in the Decommissioning in Bulgaria, ratified by a law adopted by the 39th National Assembly on 28 March 2002. According to Section 7.2, upon request of the contractors of the projects financed by the International Fund of Kozloduy, the Republic of Bulgaria will provide their adequate protection, will compensate them and will not claim against them in relation to claims made by third parties for damage, loss or damage arising in or outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, in connection with a nuclear incident in the NPP. As regards the request, the Council of Ministers has approved the Agreement on Compensation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Consortium, subject to subsequent ratification by the Minister of Economy and Energy, signed the Agreement on 23 May 2014. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on Compensation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Consortium Iberdrola ingenieria y Construccion S. A. U and BelgoProcess NV, No 502-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 March 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u31	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yordanova. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The President of the Commission Danail Kirilov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u32	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote Regarding a bill for ratification of the Agreement on Compensation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Consortium Iberdrola ingenieria y Construccion S. A. U and BelgoProcess NV, No 502-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 March 2015. At its meeting held on 25 March 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on Compensation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Consortium Iberdrola ingenieria y Construccion S. A. U and BelgoProcess NV, No 502-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 March 2015. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Energy: Mr. Dimitar Kuyumdzhiev - Director of the Department of Energy Security, Mrs. Katerina Kostadinova, Head of the Department of Energy Security and Ms. Anelia Terzieva. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Dimitar Kuyumdjiev. This Bill proposes to the National Assembly to ratify the above-mentioned Agreement on Compensation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Consortium, signed on 23 May 2014. The agreement provides guarantees to the consortium, which carries out construction activities at the Kozloduy NPP, that it will be compensated and will not be claimed against it in relation to claims brought by third parties in the event of a nuclear accident at the plant site. The possibility for the conclusion of a Compensation Agreement is provided for by the Framework Agreement between Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the activities of the International Fund for the Assistance of the Decommissioning of Nuclear Powers in our country, ratified by a law adopted by the 39th National Assembly on 28 March 2002. According to its provisions, Bulgaria will ensure, upon request, the contractors, subcontractors and consultants of the projects financed through subsidies, benefits under the agreement, including the activities related to the implementation of the projects, facilities under them and with the Bulgarian Power Plant Kozloduy EAD. According to the Vienna Convention on Civil Responsibility for Nuclear Damage and the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy responsible for damage, in a possible nuclear accident, is the operator of the nuclear installation, in this case the NPP Kozloduy. The payment of the compensation will be covered by the contract of insurance concluded.. Total civil liability for nuclear damage................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The presented draft law will not have a direct or indirect impact on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. The discussion was attended by the MPs Desislava Atanasova, Chavdar Georgiev and Emil Dimitrov. Several critical remarks were made to the importers by Mr. Chavdar Georgiev and Mr. Emil Dimitrov, who pointed out that the agreement in question does not protect the best possible interest of the Bulgarian state because they believe that all possible means and ways are not used to improve the content of the agreement. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Issues with 7 votes............................................................................................ and 4 votes........................................................................................................................................................... A. U and BelgoProcess NV, No 502-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 March 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. He has the floor of the MP Hristo Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u34	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on Compensation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Consortium Iberdrola ingenieria y Construccion S. A. U and BelgoProcess NV, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 March 2015. At a regular meeting held on 25 March 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on Compensation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Consortium Iberdrola ingenieria y Construccion S. A. U and BelgoProcess NV, signed on 23 May 2014 in Sofia. The reasons for the bill were presented by Deputy Minister of Energy Nikolay Nikolov. The signing of the Agreement on Compensation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Consortium Iberdrola ingenieria y Construccion S. A. U and Belgoprocis NV is provided for by Section 7.2 "Procedure in favour of the suppliers's contribution to the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the activities of the International Fund "Kozloduy" to support the decommissioning in Bulgaria. The Framework Agreement is ratified by a law adopted by the 39th National Assembly. In relation to that possibility, by Consortium Iberdrola ingenieria y Construccion S. A. U and Belgoprocis NV as contractor under the Treaty under a high emission factor facility at the NPP of solid radioactive waste is requested for the signing of a benefit agreement. The contract implemented by the consortium is worth 30 million. EUR, of which one-third is Bulgarian co-financing, which is paid by state-owned enterprise The maximum value of the compensation to be maintained in accordance with the requirements of the Nuclear Energy Safety Act is 96 million. leva. In the event of a possible nuclear accident and potential damage, the payment of the compensation will be covered by the annual civil liability insurance contracts for nuclear damage. The agreement under consideration will not have a direct or indirect impact on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. By decision of the Council of Ministers of 22 January 2014 the Agreement on Compensation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Consortium Iberdrola ingenieria y Construccion S was approved. A. U and Belgoprocis NV subject to subsequent ratification. On behalf of the Bulgarian government, the agreement was signed by the Minister of Economy and Energy on 23 May 2014. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 9 votes in favour, 2 votes in opposition and 2 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1 t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt at first reading a bill for ratification of the Agreement on Compensation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Consortium Iberdrola ingenieria y Construccion S. A. U and Belgoproccess NV submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 March In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u35	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I put to the first vote the ratification under discussion. 100 MPs voted: 96, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure, I am making a procedural motion to vote at second reading of the ratification in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u37	We are voting on this proposal. Vote 97 MPs: 93, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u38	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement on Compensation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Consortium IBERDROLA INGENIERIA Y CONSTRUCTION S. A. U and BELGOPROCESS NV A single member. Ratification of the Agreement on Compensation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Consortium IBERDROLA INGENIERIA Y CONSTRUCTION S. A. U and BELGOPROCESS NV, signed on 23 May 2014 in Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u39	Thank you. Isn't that all?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u40	Yeah, that's all.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u41	Second-reading speeches? I won't. I put to the second vote the ratification under discussion. They voted 111 MPs: for 104, against none, abstentioned 7. The proposal has been adopted and, with that, the Second Voting and the Law on ratification. Dear MPs, this was the last vote for the Forty-third National Assembly. One message: An updated Annual Audit Programme of the Court of Auditors for 2017. It is available to the Committee on Budget and Finance, but there you will hardly be familiar with it, it is more likely to happen at the Library of the National Assembly, for those of the Members of the National Assembly who are interested in it. [[Deputy President Kiril Tsochev and MP are having a conversation.]] Colleagues, how important is this conversation you're having? [[Laughter]] Honourable Members of the Parliament, with Decree No 59 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, promulgated in the Official Journal. 9, as of today, "January 26, 2017,'says the following: ? REPOSBLICA BULGARIA PRESENT ARRANGEMENT No 59 On the basis of art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I SAY: 1. I am disbanding the Forty-third National Assembly on 27 January 2017. 2. I schedule elections for the National Assembly on 26 March 2017. Published in Sofia, on 24 January 2017, President of the Republic Rumen Radev. It follows that today, after we have finished with the legislative part of our Programme, there is an opportunity for declarations on behalf of parliamentary groups, something which is, by parliamentary tradition, content in the last plenary session. Are there any representatives of the parliamentary groups who want to make a declaration on behalf of the groups? In the order of the numbers of the groups? [[Noise and lines.]] Is there? Mrs. Cornelia Nino, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u42	Yeah, I expect there'll be others after me. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Last day of the forty-third National Assembly. His work will get his assessment. The ruling majority and the government of Boyko Borisov reported success, reforms and visible results. We, from BSP left Bulgaria, define it as a failure. [[Noise and excitement.]] Two lost years that brought Bulgaria back! [[Noise and lines from GERB: "This is not true! "]] We will most likely remain irreconcilable in our positions. That's why the most important thing is the assessment of the people who sent us here with expectations of doing the job for them. So let's work to make them live better. And this assessment is humiliatingly low for the Parliament institution! We have reached 7% support from the Bulgarian people for the institution of parliament. Only 7% of people like what we've done here. Dear MPs, last week something happened that in one minute gathers everything and says all about our work and the evaluation we receive from the people, about the status quo and its denial. One line delivered by President Radev: "You have one week left." And this line received enthusiastic support from many Bulgarians. On the other hand, the reaction of representatives of the majority responsible is that they are offended and humiliated. This shows arrogance, aggression and resistance [[GERB's comments, laughs and applause]] , resisting the change that the people asked for and took! [[This is not true! I'm lying!...... ……]] My colleagues have just illustrated what I'm saying, a misunderstanding of what the people have said to us, aggression and resistance to change! That's why we're at 7%. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Why did you come this far? What was there and what was not in the forty-third National Assembly? There were unprincipled political alliances created for power and personal gain! There were reforms at the center of which were the money, not the man! Taking the pension plan was not to have a deficit in the NSI, not to increase people's pensions. There was a lot of work, of course. Statistics will report dozens of adopted laws, decisions and declarations. But there wasn't one, there was no justice! Because it's not fair for thefts in the health care system to punish people by putting them on a waiting list and taking their fingerprints. It is not fair for the wealth of private school owners to punish children in state schools by reducing their money for public education. [[(Noise and lines from GERB: "Eee!") We don't offer money!]] It is not fair, because of influence in the judiciary, to divide the Supreme Judicial Council into two, and for the mafia and political corruption to flow everywhere! It's not fair for our coziness of the MPs to ride in shiny cars. [[(Shouting and laughing from GERB: Lie!]] To spend money on it and not to have money on disabled children!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u43	You're lying!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u44	It is not fair to think that the map of a Member of the National Assembly is an indulgence for violations and crimes, for building entire streets and deploying them as private property.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u45	What was the 40th National Assembly?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u46	The wealth and soullessness of the political class faced the poverty of its people and was punished!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u47	Aren't you ashamed?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u48	There was another thing missing, the second thing: there was no dignity. The ruling majority, the government of Boyko Borisov deprived the Bulgarian people of national self-esteem and dignity, betrayed Bulgaria and the Bulgarian national interest! That's all that happened at the UN, that's your position on refugees, that's your position on Russia. That's not the interest of the people! And you're not sent here to do this!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u49	Why do you speak for the people?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u50	And quite rightly and naturally, the people demanded a change. All over the world, the nations demanded a change and took it! Everyone understands it differently, but if we can sum it up, in two words: in the whole world, this is the national interest. If you want, in a word: patriotism! This is the change that the world has sought. This is what happens in the United States. Some call it "protectionism." [[Noise and lines.]] That's what happened to Brexit. Some call it a disintegration of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u51	Colleagues, you're preventing me from listening to Mrs. Ninova. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u52	This happened in Hungary. Some call it isolationism. But no, it is a national interest; it is a denial of globalisation and the protection of its own people. How much time and what else do you need to figure out?! The world is changing, we're going to have to change.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u53	BSP, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u54	We from BSP left Bulgaria understood it and started this change with the choice of Rumen Radev and Iliana Yotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u55	It wasn't yours, was it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u56	We will bring this change to the end. At the forty-fourth National Assembly we will put in the centre of politics irreconcilable resistance against theft, mafia and defense class goods. [[Noise and lines.]] Income, income and income will be the second central policy of the Bulgarian Socialist Party! Bulgarian industry, Bulgarian production, Bulgarian agriculture! And no explanation that this was protectionism and contrary to 155 directives will stop us from defending the Bulgarian interest. [[Noise and lines.]] Secondary education, which gives a profession and a change in the Law on School and Preschool Education, which ruined the entire education system! Health, in which if you have imported your health contributions, you will be treated without paying, and if you are poor and unable to, the state will help you! [[Strong noise, lines and single applauses from GERB and the Patriotic Front.]] You're young, and you can't buy an apartment. The state will help you by simplifying interest rates! [[(Extreme laughter, noise, shouts: "Bravo, was it??."........................................................................................................................................................]] You're very enterprising, and you can't start a business. The state will help by simplifying the interest on the loan. [[Loud noise and lines.]] You're old and your pension is low. The state will recalculate it. [[(Applause and laughter from GERB, chanting:]] You're an illegal immigrant. You'll go where you came from. In three words: there will be rules, retribution and justice! [[Executing noise and lines.]] And in the forty-fourth National Assembly we shall not shut our eyes until the end of his term. We're looking at 20, 30 years ahead. [[Sighs: "Oooh! "]] We will be calm for Bulgaria only when, traveling along its roads, we do not see undeveloped land and desolate lands. When we walk in parks, we see young families with carts. [[Laughter, excitement in GERB.]] When we walk the streets, we don't see beggars and homeless people. When a teacher, a book and a reading place are sacred words in this country! And when an international meeting enters the prime minister or head of state of our country, it becomes quiet and is said: [[Applause from BSP LB.]] This is the kind of Bulgaria we will work for! Forty-third National Assembly is over! I wish the forty-fourth National Assembly strength and will to achieve Bulgaria as we see and work for! Good luck! [[Applause from BSP LB, shouts: More, more! From GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u57	Are there any other parliamentary groups willing to open the election campaign? [[Laughter at GERB.]] Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u58	Madam President, on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group and of all worthy other MPs, we offer you this bouquet for the whole time that you have endured everything we have heard from the parliamentary platform. [[Applause from GERB]] which is unworthy of the Bulgarian Parliament. We cannot build the authority of the National Assembly institution with such speech, Mrs. Ninova! [[The National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov offers a bouquet to the President Tsetska Tsacheva. President Tsetska Tsacheva and all the leadership are up. The parliamentary groups of GERB, the Reformation Bloc, the Patriotic Front and the BDZ-NS also stand. Claps by the said parliamentary groups and shouts "Bravo!" by GERB.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to make it clear that at the Presidency Council held yesterday, there was overall political consensus that there were no declarations from the parliamentary groups on the fact that only a week ago we opened the parliamentary session. She may be the shortest. However, we cannot fail to respond to everything that has been said because I believe that we have all taken an oath in the forty-third parliament. I can say this. There was an expression mentioned by our leader when there were heavy talks about forming a government in the Forty-third National Assembly. It was with the following content: "Search and the people gave us the task of seeking not what separates us, but what unites us. " We've been doing all this for all these two years. I would like to thank the worthy MPs from BSP left Bulgaria because without them we would not have these good decisions that we made in the forty-third parliament. [[Applause from GERB.]] I always say that everyone has their own specifics, but we should always look for success in different opinions! All that has been said, as aggression, as aggressive behavior, I do not think worthy of the worthy members of your party! I will just mention that when we started the forty-third parliament, we had an extremely important task: to implement the recommendations of the European Commission and to start the real judicial reform. Dear friends, without all of you from all the parliamentary groups, we could not achieve this because when we adopted the Judicial Reform Strategy in January 2015, we adopted it with 173 votes. These were absolutely all MPs from all parliamentary groups! Thank you very much. This has started for the forthcoming reforms to be implemented. If we recall the forty-one and forty-two parliaments, they were unable to respond to the recommendations of the European Commission for the election of the Chief Judicial Inspector. He was elected precisely from the Forty-third National Assembly and was elected with exactly 195 votes. Thank you, Members of the House! Let me also share with you that when we voted on constitutional changes and had to have a final vote in this House, we had 189 votes. Thank you, Members of Parliament from all parliamentary groups! When we talk about the political situation and what today has as a condition, about what the Bulgarian government leaves behind, I will say just a few facts. Social policy. There's 8% unemployment. There is an increase in the minimum wage from 1 January 2017 to 460 BGN. I would also like to say to you that when you talk about your social measures that you will take in a possible virtual management mandate of yours [[Applause from GERB]] You propose that you make a billion and a half for pensions and that your common social policy be worth 3 billion. lv. For a term of office, that is 12 billion. lv. Excuse me, but you must also show the legitimate sources so that this policy can be implemented! [[Applause from GERB.]] Will this be based on increasing people's taxes, or introducing progressive taxation, changing the tax system?! Is this how you from the BSP who said this when we saw the budget between first and second readings as your intention? As far as education is concerned, I would like to thank everyone who voted on the Law on School and Preschool Education, because it enabled us to actually build the education system with the opportunity and emphasis on dual education, the business education relationship, so that we can create more jobs [[Applause from GERB]] and people who can actually carry out such work. I just want to tell you that 230 million are scheduled for this year. lv. more so that the step for the dignified increase in salaries in the field of education can begin. Let me remind you that in the new financial programming period, thanks to this government and this parliamentary support, we have over 500 million. lv. for science and education. Dear colleagues who claim that you are always thinking about science and education when you are in opposition, but not in government, I will only remind you that in 2007, when Bulgaria was already a member and part of the European Union, money for science and education was missing. This is thanks to what you agreed on in the mandate in which you ruled. [[Applause from GERB.]] In terms of environment and water, the new financial programming period has already negotiated 824 million projects. lv. As far as tourism is concerned, let me say that for 2016 we have over half a billion more money as revenue that came right from tourism. Thanks to the pragmatic policy of the Bulgarian government with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov we have the opportunity to get back a market for Russian tourists, and this is done in a way that does not oppose us with Russia, but enables us to create what can be part of the generation of the country's gross domestic product. For the past year, it is somewhere around 16. 17%. As to the allegations that EU funds are being stopped, you may be referring to what happens to you when you manage. [[Applause from GERB.]] I will just tell you that when our country joined the European Union in 2007 for two years of governance, 1% of European funds were paid off until 2009 until the management of Boyko Borisov. In these two years in the cabinet Borisov 2 we have 7,5. This, I think, should be very clear to everyone who speaks from this parliamentary tribune or will participate in all these political debates. I would like to share with you that the currently agreed funds, which are under the new financial programming period, are 1.36%. The average for the European Union is 17, which means exactly that the government... [[Applause from GERB.]] Yes, I really agree with you that when Prime Minister Boyko Borisov comes in, it is said that Bulgaria is entering because Bulgaria for the first time managed to provide funds of 160 million. lv. for assistance to security at the external border of the European Union. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u59	Euros.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u60	As for energy and all these speculations, we have turned parliament into a mahlenian quarrel. I believe that you are contributing to lowering the authority of Parliament and proved it in your mandate, when the 42nd National Assembly had the opportunity to ensure that the bus members of parliament exit through the enclosures that were here. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB.]] But in the 43rd Parliament, thanks to everyone who participated in it, we have contributed to a genuinely correct policy that we have all done together. As far as energy is concerned, I would like to emphasise an extremely important step that has been taken. You know that we limited the possibility of lobbying texts in the Energy Act, which served entirely only BSP left Bulgaria [[Applause from GERB]] so that we do not allow any more preferential prices for RESs. [[BSP LB.]] You know that our country's commitment is to have no more than 16% in this mix. [[BSP LB.]] May I continue? I would like to share that when you completed your mandate, 2014, BEH's accounts had 404 million. lv. Currently there are over 1 billion in BEH. lv. and this is thanks to all these successful policies that the government implemented, thanks to the parliamentary activity that it had in this Parliament. So, colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria, I know that you are quite nervous, I know that you are quite worried because you have internal problems and are trying as hard as possible to transfer all negative energy to your political opponents. We from the Political Party GERB want the debate that will be held in this campaign to be constructive, all together to contribute to the trust of Bulgarian citizens to the Bulgarian institutions, but with real solutions that we can offer. Decisions that we have made in the sector as well "Secure" with the adoption of the National Security Service Act, for the State Agency "Study," for the "Military Information" and the "Development Act," which enabled better coordination. I would like to thank you here that, in the last days of this Parliament, we have been able to pass a law that is extremely important to the services of the Law on Countering Terrorism. I thank all the parliamentary groups because in this Parliament we really had many different opinions, but when we sat down and talked about Bulgaria, about national interests, we had an understanding of all the parliamentary groups, regardless of some of their leaders. I also thank the representatives of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria because we had the opportunity on important topics, when we are not in front of the parliamentary platform, to talk normally and to make the right decisions. And together to consolidate both with representatives of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, as well as of the ABB, of the attack, of the Patriotic Front, of the BDZ, of the Reformation Block, I can say, despite the differences and despite the policy that some reformist bloc politicians have undertaken because the next parliament will be of similar diversity. Believe me, if you want to go back to the time of the 42nd Parliament, [[the President signals that time has run out]] , GERB's parliamentary group does not want to participate in this scenario and we do not want to oppose it in this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u61	Please navigate to the conclusion. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u62	I have respect and respect for every MP from every single parliamentary group! Thank you for talking to me in this Parliament and not turning our heads like we did in the 42nd Parliament. [[Applause from GERB.]] Thank you, colleagues! Let's wish each other good luck! Let us maintain human relations in this campaign because, by entering the 44th Parliament, we all have to work for its authority and take into account the credit of every MP and every single parliamentary group. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u63	Representatives of other parliamentary groups? Mr. Valeri Simeonov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u64	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It is only right at the end of a National Assembly that every political force should report on what has been done and what has not been done. That's what I'm going to try to do on behalf of the Patriotic Front. We believe that the work of the 43rd National Assembly was extremely successful. [[Applause from GERB and PF.]] We believe that the work of the Patriotic Front was also successful and effective. I congratulate all colleagues on the enormous efforts, labor, insomnia, tension, stress, in which we have managed to create, change the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria in the direction of, I believe, the better existence of our people. Thanks again, everyone. Only the people who were in the National Assembly have an idea of what I'm talking about. Unfortunately, society has exactly the opposite idea, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't be telling the truth. Specifically, what did the Patriot Front do? The most important task is to limit the influence of the political-mafia structure of the DPS and other ethnic parties...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u65	Come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u66	...by disabling them from management.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u67	You're talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u68	As a secondary positive effect, this is the fight against corruption, with vote trading, party appointments in the administration. [[The National Representative Ruchen Riza is leaving the Chamber.]] Do you remember March 2015, when I showed you this watch that you gave your constituents? It's the DPS clock that's going backwards. [[It shows a wall clock with the inscription "DPS" at 9.30 p.m.]] This clock keeps going back two years later, and that's not surprising.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u69	We've seen it, Mr. Simeonov. Take off the watch, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u70	This clock counts the end of time and life of pro-Turkish parties, not only DPS. Your last hour is approaching. You're in 38 MPs, you're out 30. I hope that during a modernization of the Bulgarian people in the 44th National Assembly you will have three MPs forced into other parties. The second task, which was put in our programme and managed to implement, I can say it with self-esteem, this is the limitation of Turkey's influence on domestic political life, as well as the religious life of the Republic of Bulgaria. We managed to change the Election Code by limiting nearly four times the number of sections in Turkey, thereby limiting the influence of our southern neighbour in Bulgaria's domestic policy. The DPS will never be a balance sheeter in the National Assembly again. Never! In the fight against radical Islam, we were able to pass the Law on banning wearing clothing covering the face. We also submitted other bills, which unfortunately did not have time to implement them, but for them later. We have made efforts and managed to achieve success in another priority of the Patriotic Front. We have succeeded, with the assistance of colleagues from almost all parliamentary groups, in imposing a moratorium on logging and timber exports and the necessary, essential changes to the Forest Act. We have succeeded in countering illegal, illegal immigration by building a fence, for which I also thank all my fellow Members who have supported the accelerated construction of the fence, which is already ahead of completion. In this way Bulgaria became one of the most probably protected from the refugee and migrant flows throughout Europe. We have also managed to limit the settlement of such aliens in the country, as well as to increase the punishment for human trafficking. Regarding the other priority of the Patriotic Front, we proposed measures to encourage the literacy of birth and master its boom in the marginal layers. We see that recently colleagues from some other political forces have felt and started talking about demographics. That's nice! Keep going! In this direction we will partner, life and health, in the future Forty-fourth National Assembly. We've declared breaking the spine of domestic crime. We have proposed a system of seven measures for this. We see that other political forces have taken them into arms. This is good and means that our ideology has many followers. Regarding the creation of a combatable army, we supported the reform of the army and rearmed it. We adopted some sign decisions in which we were able to unite all Bulgarian parties, and this is the recognition of the Armenian genocide with a decision of the National Assembly. We have managed to achieve an increase in the budget for education and culture. For the first time in the Law, education should be raised in a spirit of patriotism and patriotism. We literally managed days ago to save from death, from painful death, several thousand Bulgarian small traders who are involved in the production of traditional Bulgarian homemade brandy. We did it! Thank you all! [[Applause.]] Some of the most serious changes and achievements we have been able to achieve are related to the changes to the Energy Act, for which I dare say that there is a modest contribution and the Temporary Energy Assessment Commission. [[Applause.]] As a result of the findings that were made in this Commission, a final report was prepared, which was delivered to the Prosecutor's Office, but strangely and inexplicably why this report did not find any place in the media and in the media media of the Republic of Bulgaria. I hope that the issues we are putting in this report, the revelations we have made thanks to the hard work of all the colleagues involved in this Commission, will find their fair retribution through the respective actions of the prosecution. We saved the price of electricity. This is also an achievement, I dare say, at the forty-third National Assembly. You remember that this was one of the most serious conditions that we put for the continuation of the support of the coalition governance of GERB and the Reformation bloc, but we were understood and the price of electricity for two years was not touched. We can also boast in general of the amendment of the Constitution, which changed literally at twelve to five. People who are inside the process of running and organizing parliamentary groups for making such a common decision, which is an exceptional pride for the entire National Assembly, know that the Patriotic Front has a very serious contribution at exactly twelve to five. Finally, but not least, we are proud that we were able to pass the hearing of the Bulgarian national anthem at the beginning of each session of the National Assembly. [[Applause.]] Unfortunately, there have also been many solutions that we have not been able to pass, and our priorities, which we have also failed to implement. These are the thawing of income policy. We failed to pass the non-taxable minimum for the minimum wage, as well as a minimum pension of 300 or 200 BGN. We had proposed both options. Unfortunately, we weren't supported. We could not incriminate the preaching of radical Islam, but the Bill is in the Ministry, so the next National Assembly, I hope, will accept it. We have also failed to pass the Religions Act, a law that will prohibit the financing of religion with external funds from other countries, NGOs and other companies and structures. I am sure that this way we will point to Turkey's intervention in the Islamic religion in Bulgaria. I'm sure of it! I am also sure that the next National Assembly will adopt the other national responsible decision that we have laid down in this Law to stop the use of loudspeakers to amplify the howling from the minarets of all the services of Islam. We have not been able to pass the Military Service Act, unfortunately, we have not received support. We have also failed to pass the Law on the fair distribution of budget funds under the planned regions, in the sense less developed, backward regions. We couldn't get through art. 417 of the GPC to limit the unilateral imposition of obligations, invoices and discharges by banks, heating, ERPs and so on and so forth. We have failed, unfortunately, to my personal great regret, to pass the Law on the termination of the treaties of TPP Maritsa Iztok 1 and TPP Maritsa Iztok 3.............................. the enslaving contracts without the termination of which we will not be able to save the National Electricity Company and our energy. And a few common words in general, as Mr. Tsvetanov set an example. It is right for everyone to evaluate the work with both the other Members and the other parliamentary groups. I can't help but express my satisfaction. To be honest, I'm a first-time member of the National Assembly and I'm serious about politics. I'm surprised at the high level and qualifications of the people I met here. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u71	Please navigate towards completion!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u72	I'm done. I thank all those who have worked hard, labor, qualification, nerves, time to do what we have been able to do, and it is not a small thing. Unfortunately, it was not appreciated either by the media or generally by the public. But here we have to say that one of the main reasons for the low rating of the National Assembly is that the Prime Minister allowed himself, on several occasions, to brutally interfere in the work of the National Assembly through the largest group of GERB. This was the case with the KPC procedure, this was the case with the Election Code, this was the case with the Energy Act. This lowered the rating of the Bulgarian National Assembly unfairly. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In conclusion, I would like to thank the administration of the National Assembly, which quietly but thoroughly and inconspicuously did its job perfectly, the Legal Department and personally the President of the National Assembly, who, although unable to become the mother of the nation, is the undisputed good mother of the Bulgarian Parliament. [[Applause.]] In this regard, Mrs. Tsacheva, I ask you to show a creative solution at the end of today's session and to conclude solemnly with the hearing of the Bulgarian national anthem. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u73	He's not in the book. You will offer it in the next legislation, and then when it is in the Rules, there will be no obstacles. Other representatives of parliamentary groups? Mrs. Mariana Todorova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u74	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It's reckoning day. A balance on which we will build our prospects for the future. This reckoning would be untrue and false if we started throwing election promises at each other again, pointing only at the opponent's faults. How will we preserve institutionalism, how will we expect respect if we build these in the last minutes through opposition? That's what we showed. But this is no longer gaining confidence, but is called for political hypocrisy and repels people. A little over two years ago, society resented the weak state and institutions, against political and social irresponsibility, unemployment, poverty, lack of future. We entered this Parliament after a cycle of elections.. European and parliamentary. Is it a coincidence that the situation is similar now? We must learn our lesson. If we sow hatred, we will reap once again a highly fragmented parliament, unable to broadcast a stable parliamentary majority. If we promise unfulfilled policies and measures and are led mainly by populism, we will be systematically sent to elections and referendums that will make another sense of criminal stocks. Like any previous parliament, we have not been able to change the suggestion that politics and public good are two completely incompatible concepts. In the beginning, consensus and consent were sought, but again, confrontation, opposition, insults. The working ministers and MPs became hostages to the lazy and the screaming. The desire for dialogue gradually disappeared. We have not reached a complete mechanism for discussing important issues, upcoming bills and effective decision-making in the forty-third National Assembly in our departure today. Is it not because of overconfidence or unwillingness to complicate, the idea of the ABB to create an expert advice on legislation that improves the quality of texts and smoothes legislative imperfections?! Unfortunately, it was common practice for the bills to be adopted not so much according to their meaning and utility to the state as it was under the political weight of the group that proposed them. Many of them were not realized just because they were imported from smaller formations, or because the opponent can win and calculate initiative, asset, successes. I don't want to sound edgy. I'm saying all this not to judge, but so we can look for better solutions from now on. In parliament, ABC has built an authoritative, intelligent, dialogueal and disciplined formation. We offered many ideas, we defended causes, we succeeded where reason and arguments could prevail. We have shown that we are not afraid of referendums through a proposal to ease their conduct. The problem is not in the referendums themselves, but in the politically engaged people who refuse to make explanatory campaigns, discussions through which citizens will then make informed choices. Only ABB participated in the campaigns on both referendums, and the latter we declared a three-fold reduction in subsidies and a mixed electoral system. We have contributed to many social laws, including through our representative in power, Ivaylo Kalfin. The pension reform that we are arguing so much about will show its effect in the future. I challenge the next contenders to manage it if they find a better solution. There are also a number of other packages of social laws that have helped a great deal of family assistance for children, social support, equality of women, labour migration, labour mobility and many others. An essential element is the development of a demographic strategy with a clear action plan. Ivaylo Kalfin's idea began the discussion on the revision of disability pensions. ABB was an active factor in judicial reform, energy, defence, security, education and agriculture. And we did our reading in the presidential elections and the referendum. They are voting against the political elite and the way politics are being made. We have given way to new ideas whose bearers are new faces. If we want to impose reforms in individual sectors, we must show that we can change and reform ourselves of our own free will, not just through laws or statutory restrictions. From now on, we will build on what we have achieved in the social sphere by focusing on combating poverty, inequality and exploitation. We'll replace the slogans with real policies. About 60% of the poor in Bulgaria are working. This requires an urgent increase in income from labor. The country must stop pointing out its cheap labour as a comparative advantage. However, we at ABB will work to restructure the economy beyond macroeconomic stability by making it high-tech with added value. We will also offer a reasonable mechanism to index all pensions from income and internship. In order for there to be a balance, we will also propose very effective measures in demographic policy, in line with budgetary opportunities. We will change the concept of education and health to not view it as a market niche and market share, but as a major commitment of the state. It is important for us to have a well-balanced and clear foreign policy in which Bulgaria is an active factor and not a passive receiver of solutions. For all this, we need a clear perspective, and it lies in consolidation and stabilisation of the left space. ABB will catalyze the unification of a principle base with formations to build an alternative center on the left. I, like all other colleagues, would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for their cooperation. I think we found a way and a language with everyone and, when they prevailed on reasonable arguments, we could understand each other. I also thank the Presidency of the National Assembly, Mrs. Tsacheva for being able to contain the passions, lead and balance. I wish all my colleagues success in the upcoming campaign. Let us be more realistic, be humble and not disappoint people again. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the left side of the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. Mr. Karadaye:
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are at the end of the Forty-third National Assembly and we are facing some of the most important elections in the context of complex, worrying times in the country, in the region, in Europe and in the world. Analyzing the political processes, taking into account the pulse of time and people's desire, we at the DPS at our national conference at the beginning of 2016 stated our strong position on the need for change and defined the presidential elections as a stepping stone for the upcoming early parliamentary elections. The loyalty of our decisions was confirmed with a result of the presidential election at the end of 2016. Taking into account the President's main function as a unifying nation, we bet on the unification profile. The vague analysis of the last two years shows that the division in society is deepening, the language of hatred dominates, the model of opposition is perceived as a major one. Will the model of opposition continue, or will dialogue be sought despite differences, for the sake of the country's development? That question must be answered each and every one of us. This issue must be fundamental to the parties and, in this sense, everyone must make his choice. Our warnings about disunity and hate speech as the main causes of today's events are still relevant today. We must free ourselves from this political heritage, declare it harmful to the country today and in the future. The model of behavior should lead to that structure in parliament, which can broadcast a stable majority on a value basis that will broadcast a stable government, ensure stability and security in the country to strengthen the country's foreign policy positions, for a worthy place in the Euro-Atlantic structures in which Bulgaria is a member. These debates should start right now. With our behaviour, the political forces will outline possible options of agreement after the elections. All political forces must accept that there is a limit that must not be crossed in the name of the people and the future of the country. Responsibility to the people requires finding ways, with everyone's efforts, to create conditions for this. Let not be seen as a cliché proclaimed in the Constitution allegiance to universal human values, freedom, peace, humanism, equality, justice and tolerance, elevated to a supreme principle. The rights of personality, its dignity and security to receive real dimensions. Today, more than ever, there is a need to calm society down, to agree on important issues for society. The people choose management programs and individuals to implement them. The people cannot constantly listen to excuses for failed programs, for failed politicians. The people judge when the power is abused, they also pay the corresponding political price with the tide of voters. At the presidential elections, the people gave their assessment of the current government. Now people will decide who and what program will enter the next parliament. I believe that judgment will be sober, reasonable and wise. What we have spoken from the DPS since the establishment of this unprincipled majority was confirmed by the election results in 2016. And if someone continues to live with the illusions of And run away again when difficulties arise, when he sees the rush. Everyone needs to know that when power is taken over, responsibility is taken over. The rulers can't escape responsibility. And today's rulers must be responsible for the failure of the model of governance, for the state of the country, for the society, for the division and for the language of hatred. Let us not forget that those who fuel hatred work on the pattern of opposition, subject to prejudice, are very dangerous. Intolerantness, hatred, along with brutal opposition, can lead to undesirable results. Without objectively assessing the ideas of platforms, ignoring the leading beginning of the well-being of the people and the development of the state, national priorities cannot be pursued. The formula after GERB is unacceptable. She doesn't have to. Here comes the model of unfinished term, unfinished work, escape from responsibility. This reveals and reveals certain fears, inability to teach from their own mistakes. Twice you get trust and both times you betray it. People remember how to live before 2009, they know how to live now. We offer a management programme with clear indicators. This is what we expect from the other participants in the elections. Let us bet on dialogue, learn to talk amongst ourselves, work together and give up the model of opposition. And instead of talking to who we can't, let's make sure that after the election we can work together. After the elections, heavy talks and consultations are to be held, coalition governance is to be held. He'll have to sit at the negotiating table. Let's be able to talk. Criticism is not denial. Criticism requires knowledge and corresponding competence. Criticism requires telling the truth objectively. In this regard, I will remind Pythagoras of a thought: To speak the truth is difficult, to bear the truth is glorious. There needs to be consensus on those issues that make us Bulgarian politicians, we all need to oppose the lie, demagogy and populism. We need to overcome our own fears, tell the truth and offer programs that can be realized. We need to run a positive campaign and fight for the votes of the Bulgarian voters by presenting clear goals in the interests of the people and the state. Starting tomorrow, we have a caretaker government and we all expect it to organise fair and democratic elections. This is the main function of this government. We all have our responsibilities in this regard, too. All nationally responsible parties must be united in our will to secure and ensure fair and transparent elections in order to establish the necessary trust in the newly elected National Assembly. In addition, the government must clearly show its attachment to Euro-Atlantic values, firmly assert national interest in international policy. The caretaker government must continue with the organisation of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union at the beginning of 2018. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the upcoming elections, I wish success to all with whom we can achieve the great goal of value, homogeneous majority in parliament, which will broadcast a stable government, stability in the country and security of citizens, the realization of a national responsible partnership between bodies and institutions with clear national priorities, successful implementation of the Presidency, strong international policy. Be healthy! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u77	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. The word is Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u78	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! We of the Reformation Block consider the work of the Forty-third National Assembly as useful for Bulgaria. This National Assembly made changes to the Constitution not as deep as we wanted, but they were able to speed up judicial reform, and yesterday the European Commission in its 10-year report defined these amendments in the Constitution and in the Judicial Law as successful and significant steps of progress. We know the BSP doesn't like this, but that's it, ladies and gentlemen! It's irreversible! From now on, the implementation of the Law on the Judiciary is in the hands of the judiciary, and indeed we expect some active action from both the current SJC and the future SJC in terms of judicial reform and effective implementation of the changes. As for the Reformation bloc, I would say that we were one of the most active groups. We have submitted 140 bills, of which 90 are on our own initiative. Let me say that we have a high degree of success, and that is in important topics that I will mention later. This National Assembly adopted for the first time in 27 years a new educational law. We know that the left does not like this, but the reform is still happening. There's a new law, new standards, new textbooks, new plans, new standards in higher education, money for science. For the first time in decades, over 350 million. lv. will pour out for science, and salaries in the education system have been increased by about 10%. This National Assembly has stopped the left trend for reducing the money for defence and modernization of the army. Nearly a billion voted for the army's modernisation activities, despite the resistance from the left, which will make us compatible with NATO and increase guarantees for our national security. This National Assembly has made changes to many laws, including the possibility for the Bulgarian army to participate in the protection of the Bulgarian borders.Something extremely important in this complex international environment, something extremely important in this exceptional crisis with migrants. This National Assembly stopped the leaks in healthcare and directed the money in the system to the patient, hospitals and doctors, and not in the circles, which for years benefited from political protection on the left, became a sad sign of BSP's managements in this area. This National Assembly does not vote Delyan Peevski as head of the National Security Agency, but votes changes guaranteeing national security. Changes in energy, which have already been mentioned and which have actually significantly reduced the deficit in the system by hundreds of millions of leva, the electronic vote, the machine voting, the restriction of electoral abuse, something in which the Reformation bloc was extremely active. Changes in laws that may not seem so interesting to society, but so important for the economy and regarding the new Public Procurement Act, the new Law on concessions, the decisive and radical changes in the Law on the Construction of the Area, in the laws concerning the Cadasta, allow Bulgaria to modernise its legislation and systems, which guarantee both the citizens of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian business, and the foreign business effective mechanisms of investment and the implementation of an entrepreneurial initiative in Bulgaria, something that is extremely important, since after the completion of the large-scale European projects, only Bulgarian entrepreneurs, foreign investment and budget opportunities will give a chance for additional capital economic development of Bulgaria, and this without the basis of the Public Procurement Act, ZUT, Cadaster, Law on concessions, will not happen. I pay particular attention to the fact that the next National Assembly would be better still to improve the opportunities for public-private partnership.......................................... the opportunity for the Bulgarian economy and the Bulgarian infrastructure, something mandatory after the completion of the second period in relation to European projects. I would say that after the mandate of the Forty-third National Assembly Bulgaria remains in good financial condition... 1.6% surplus on gross domestic product. In fact, for the first time since 2008, there has been an excess in the 2016 budget. It is obvious that this is a significant effort of both Parliament and the Council of Ministers and of all control services that guaranteed the state's revenues and dealing with smuggling. Thirteen billion fiscal reserves, 3.5% economic growth. Excuse me, but these are indeed data that put Bulgaria in one of the leading positions in terms of economic growth in the European Union, and there is no way that they will not be taken into account. Let me just say that this is unattainable for any left-hand controls so far. I hope you won't have to in the future. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB and DPS.]] For the next National Assembly, it remains to adopt the anti-corruption law and make these reforms irreversible. I cannot help but say that the Reformation bloc was adamant and consistent for a radical and strict anti-corruption law. Unfortunately, after all, only the Reformation bloc and GERB stood behind this bill. For this reason he went only at first reading, did not pass at second reading. Both yesterday's most serious criticisms of the European Commission and of the Bulgarian society and of all non-governmental organizations that put Bulgaria first on corruption were precisely for this reason the anti-corruption strategy, the inability to support the anti-corruption law and the creation of a single body to deal with corruption. I very much hope that in the next Forty-four National Assembly, the topic of anti-corruption will be one of the most important and even at the very beginning, the anti-corruption law will be voted on. I would also hope that the next National Assembly will continue with the bold reforms in the judiciary, why not after new amendments to the Constitution, which will also be oriented towards changes in the judiciary, but also to changes relating to regional development, to possible introduction of a second level of local self-government, as it is in the modern countries that we are seeking, to decentralization of both functional and financial power in Bulgaria. Finally, I would like to thank you all! To thank President Tsacheva and the leadership! I've had experience in this parliament 20 years ago. However, it seems to me that it prevailed the possibility of cooperative cooperation in the name of Bulgaria. Politics is an art of compromise, but not a compromise based on violation of your value system and your principles. I hope that the National Assembly could prove to the Bulgarian society that it can work cooperatively, that it can put the aims of the people and of the nation ahead of its personal or political goals. Be healthy and I hope that there will be fair elections for which the caretaker government will give full guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-26.u79	Any other parliamentary groups? There aren't any. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the forty-third National Assembly shall conclude its work. We have a little more than 13 hours until the end of this parliament's Legislature. And on today's plenary day various parliamentary groups heard different truths about how the legislative institution works, about parliamentaryism. I personally expected to hear more agreement on what is to come, because we MEPs from the forty-third National Assembly are leaving today, but parliamentaryism remains. History will give its estimates from tomorrow for the work of this mandate to the National Assembly. For me, for the leadership of the National Assembly, for all of us, for the administration of the Bulgarian Parliament, it is a credit that we did not work in iron enclosures [[Applause from GERB]] , police cars and uniforms. We had a good dialogue with civil society. We are the most transparent, most accessible state institution in the Republic of Bulgaria. There's an election coming. I join the expectations to be fair, fair so that they can really structure the next state institutions of the Republic of Bulgaria. It's been an honor to be first amongst your peers! Thank you, colleagues! For those who will also find a good memory of the forty-third National Assembly, please order the southern entrance for the so-called family photo. I am closing the final plenary session of the Forty-third National Assembly. [[(Ringing. (Applause)]]
