ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Messages: On 6 July the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 10 for 2017 of the Constitutional Court in Constitutional Case No 10 of 2016. By its Decision the Constitutional Court ruled at the request of a group of MPs from the Forty-third National Assembly and declared the provision of art. 5, para. 4 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. Information on key indicators for the development of the economy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 6 July 2017 was received from the National Statistical Institute. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. For a statement please, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u2	Good morning! Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I hope you've all understood that we of Volja are consistent in our actions and we are proving it with our last initiative. It refers to the so-called "deputy immunity." Yesterday our proposal was sent to abolish this status and, as you know, it takes 60 signatures to submit this initiative. I believe there will be people among you who are free and honest, and will not be bothered to sign this document. What are our arguments for this proposal? For us this immunity does not make any sense, something more in our country the parliamentary immunity has become a tool for oppression and manipulation. Yes, in some countries there is, but for example in Sweden, Norway is not. In Bulgaria immunity is mainly used for discrediting and media scandals, and when it is proven that there are no grounds for removing immunity and any accusations, the moral compensation for the damage done to the person's name is missing. And another thing, the request for immunity in our country has become a conviction and a reason for public lynching. We of Volja do not need immunity and we have already announced it. Now we call on you to do the same. We believe that the people's chosen ones are decent and clean people and do not need this status, which gives only power to behind-the-scenes puppeteers to abuse or try to intimidate someone. Parliament has the lowest rating among the institutions. Playing with immunities usually suggests that almost here are gathered guilty of something people who cowardly hide behind the walls of this building. Is that how you want your constituents to think of you?! Who are we protecting with these immunitys from the people who chose us?! If you have nothing to fear, support our signature. Immunity doesn't give us freedom, but it makes you dependent on the task force. We of Volya............................................................................................................ you can be And I will only give you one more minute, mainly directed at the President of the National Assembly. I will quote his statement "BNT," 2015: The Community expects decisions from politicians and may even have been late in view of what is happening, says Mr. Glauchev and adds that art. 70 does not protect the functional nature of the people's representative, but becomes an unjustified privilege of the MPs against the other Bulgarian citizens. Mr. Glauchev, we invite you to give an example and to be the first to support our signature to change this article and the overthrow of our MPs, so-called............................................................................. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. We move on to work on our agenda: REPORT ON THE ACTION OF THE ELECTRONIC MEDIA COUNCIL FOR THE PERIOD 1 JANUARY 30 JUNE 2016 AND REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE ELECTRONIC MEDIA COUNCIL FOR THE PERIOD 1 JULY 31 DECEMBER 2016 Importer is the Electronic Media Council, 1 June 2017 and 17 May 2017. I shall put it to the vote: Project! DECISION on the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period from 1 January 2016 to 30 June 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 39, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 2016 " 30 June 2016" Please vote. Vote 170 MPs: 91, against 66, abstention 13. The decision's been made. Two: Project! DECISION on the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 July 2016 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 39, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 July 2016. " 31 December 2016" Please vote. Vote 167 MPs: for 89, against 69, abstention 9. The decision's been made. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECTS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL PROCEEDING CODEX. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, 10 May 2017; Plamen Hristov, Albena Naydenova and Polina Tsankova, 12 May 2017; Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, 30 May 2017; Christian Mitev and a group of MPs, 3 July 2017. The report will introduce you to the people representative Maria Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will introduce you to the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs: ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 754-01-4, submitted by Cornelia Nino and a group of MPs on 10 May 2017, Draft amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 754-01-5, submitted by Plamen Hristov, Albena Naydenova and Polina Tsankova........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At its meeting held on 5 July 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 754-01-4, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of Parliament on 10 May 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 754-01-5, submitted by Plamen Hristov, Albena Naydenova and Polina Tsankova, Hristova on 12 May 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 754-01-12, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017, and a Draft amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 754-01-34, submitted by Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs on 4 July 2017. The meeting was attended by: Ms. Violeta Obretenova and Ms. Daniela Belchina, State experts in the Directorate of the Law and the Supreme Court of Cassation; Mr. Krasimir Vlahov, Vice-President and Chairman of the Civil College; Mrs. Valya Gigova, Mrs. Maya Manolova, Member of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Diana Kovacheva, Deputy Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, from the Administration of Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Chonka Kovacheva, Head of the Department of International Standards and Staff Regulations. A draft amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code No 754-01-4 was presented by Mr. Philip Popov, who pointed out that the proposed amendments and additions aim to ensure a fair and balanced implementation process, creating a legal opportunity for the opposition submitted by the debtor to suspend the execution and excluding the possibility of the banks to be provided with a privileged order for immediate execution. In order to ensure greater protection of debtors in enforcement proceedings, it is proposed that they may appeal in judicial order the assessment of the object of the public sale, the refusals to close, terminate and suspend enforcement, the replacement of the method of execution, as well as the change of the guard. The draft law also provides for a mandatory indication of the applicant's bank account in the judgment and the applicant's application for an enforcement order in order to facilitate the voluntary payment of the amounts awarded by the debtor. The draft proposal for a change in the terms and conditions of calling by extension of the period within which the defendant is to be sought, as well as the number of visits to his address, and further arrangements shall be made for the court to make official reference to his current address and to the address of his place of employment. A new approach has also been proposed in determining the non-secvesable income of natural persons linked to the amount of minimum wage, with the retention of the amounts being carried out in order determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. It is envisaged that changes to the Law on Private Judicial Contractors, which suggest that the sum of all enforcement fees should not exceed the amount of the obligation in the event of a voluntary execution not to collect a fee, as well as an increase of representatives from the Ministry of Justice in the composition of the disciplinary commission to the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors. Mr. Plamen Hristov presented the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 754-01-5, and pointed out that with it importers strive to ensure that there is a fair and balanced guarantee, claim and enforcement process. An improvement of the call procedure is proposed by establishing an effective mechanism to ensure that the defendant is sought at the address indicated in the case, as well as at his permanent and current address within one month and on at least three visits, and that at least one of them is proposed to be on an unattended day. It focuses on the proposal made to reduce the proportionate public charges in such a way that the maximum amount of the proportional charge becomes half the amount of the current proportional charges. In order to facilitate voluntary enforcement, importers propose to adopt changes to oblige the identification of a bank account in the application, in the judgment, in the application for an enforcement order and in the enforcement order itself. Changes shall also be proposed in the interim proceedings, ensuring that citizens who submit convincing written evidence are exempted from the obligation to submit a guarantee upon admission of the security. The draft also provides for the possibility of the debtor's objection to an order for immediate execution with an applicant bank, regardless of the grounds for suspension, and the right of the debtor to appeal the assessment of the immovable property as defined by the court contractor, as well as the refusal to close, terminate and suspend the enforcement. Mr. Hristov emphasized on the proposal for the formation of the non-secessable income of the debtor with the amount of the minimum wage. In line with the objectives of the Bill, changes are also made to the Law on Private Judicial Contractors, suggesting that the sum of all execution fees does not exceed the amount of the obligation and that, in the event of a voluntary execution, debtors be exempt from the payment of a fee. It is also envisaged to increase the representatives of the Ministry of Justice in the composition of the disciplinary commission of the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors. The Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 754-01-12, was presented by Mr. Kirilov. He pointed out that the proposed amendments and additions to the enforcement proceedings aim at optimising it in compliance with the principle of adequacy and proportionality in the proceedings. Changes in the jurisdiction in enforcement proceedings are envisaged to correspond not only with the rules of jurisdiction in lawsuit and order proceedings and to ensure that judicial contractors have access to the National database, but also with regard to third parties who are obliged to participate in the proceedings as co-owners, indebted spouses, mortgage creditors. The draft law lays down the obligation for the judicial contractor to formally lift the postures imposed and prohibited upon the entry into force of the order for the completion of the enforcement proceedings and gives the debtor the opportunity to voluntarily pay by reducing the amount of the initial voluntary contribution from 30 to 20% of the obligation. In order to ensure maximum protection of the interests of the parties in the enforcement proceedings, mandatory appointment of an expert in determining the price of the property for real estate as well as sale of movable property worth more than 5000 BGN is proposed. Proposals have been made to prevent unjustified suspension of the enforcement case, as well as measures to achieve an effective execution process by increasing the time limit for the price to be placed on public sale from one week to two weeks, eliminating the possibility of submitting multiple bidding proposals and a transparent method for determining the non-secessibility of income. The Bill proposes a comprehensive framework ensuring the proper functioning of the processes of imposing electronic supports on a bank account and in detail regulates the procedure of electronic public auctions aimed at transparency and speed of public sale. The explicit provisions regulate the possibility of forced execution on a brand, patent, industrial design and industrial property sites by optimizing the legislative framework with regard to the enforcement of judicial decisions on parental rights and the regime of personal contacts between parents and children. Mr. Kirilov pointed out that, in line with the objectives of the Draft Law, an amendment is proposed to the Law on Obligations and Contracts, by which importers seek to remove the figure of the eternal debtor by introducing a ten-year absolute limitation period for individuals. There are also amendments to the Tax Insurance Procedure Code and the Law on Private Judicial Contractors, and the proposals will respond to public expectations for a fair and effective implementation process to the greatest extent. The Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 754-01-34, was presented by the National Representative Christian Mitev. He noted that the Bill provides for changes in the way notifications and court documents are served in the enforcement proceedings and in the cassation appeal. He stressed that the proposed changes meet the public expectations of a fair trial, including the Court of Cassation's obligation to indicate a controversial practice, to summarize the existing one and to rule on the substance of the dispute. With regard to enforcement proceedings, it is proposed that an obligation for the applicant to indicate a bank account to be transferred to and remove the possibility for banks to be provided privilegedly with an order for immediate execution. In accordance with the reasons set out in the Draft Law, it contains proposals for changes in the jurisdiction of enforcement proceedings, as well as proposals complementary to the grounds for its suspension. In the notification and call procedure, it is proposed that service through the municipality or town hall be at the expense of the party, as well as that of the officials calling for the service by glued to the notification after three visits, one of which is on the day off. The court has been given the opportunity to check the address of the defendant and to check his employment when serving through the employer. The bill proposes uniformisation of the State's property claims and bond claims fee, specifying the provision on non-secessable income. In line with the objectives of the Bill, amendments are proposed to the Law on Obligations and Contracts, the Law on Private Judicial Contractors and the Law on the Judiciary. The drafts have received opinions from: the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, prof. Vassil Merchkov, Assoc. Dr. Krasen Stanchev, the Movement of the Experts for the Civil Society and the Bulgarian Industrial Association. People's representatives Philip Popov, Hamid Hamid, Christian Mitev, Yavor Notev, Emil Dimitrov, Pencho Milkov, Anna Alexandrova and Danail Kirilov expressed their support for the bills, welcoming the desire of all importers to overcome the difficulties in the process of calling the parties and focusing on the need for changes in the implementation to meet the public expectations for fair enforcement. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 20 votes for the Council, without opposition and abstention, propose to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 754-01-4, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 10 May 2017; - with 20 votes for the Council, without the opposition and abstention, propose to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 754-01-5, submitted by Plamen Trifonov Hristov, Albena Vladimirova Naydenova and Polina Tsankova-Hristova on 12 May 2017; - with 20 votes for the Council, without opposition and abstention, propose to the National Assembly to adopt a bill of amendment and supplement to the Civil Procedure Code, No 754-01-12, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017; - with 20 votes for the Council, without opposition and abstention, propose to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 754-01-34, submitted by Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs on 4 July 2017...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Mr. Kirilov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am proposing a procedure for admission in the Chamber of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria Mrs. Maya Manolova and Deputy Ombudsman Mrs. Diana Kovacheva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Please vote on admission in this Chamber. 125 MPs voted: 122, against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mrs. Manolova and Mrs. Kovacheva to the hall. Let's move on. Posts of importers? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the Parliament, on behalf of the importers. The draft proposed by us concerns fair changes in the civil process, starting from the proper calling of the parties, through the ordering proceedings and to the executive process. First of all, with the proposed Bill, we aim to improve the call procedure by providing additional guarantees for finding and notifying the debtor. We have suggested that the debtor be searched at least three times at his address, one of the searches to be on a non-working and non-existent day. Secondly, we have proposed that the court make an official reference to his employment so that he can be called through his employer. With these changes, we aim in practice to notify the debtor in such a way that he can understand that a civil case is being brought against him so that he can organise his defence in a timely manner. Thirdly, it is important that the proposed change be made to banks in the ordering procedure. The proposed change shall provide for the application submitted by the applicant under the order under art. 417, stop the performance. The aim is to ensure justice, equality and protection of debtors of banks who are unable to repay their debts. Next, an opportunity is offered to solve the problem identified in practice, namely the lack of information on a bank account on which to voluntarily transfer amounts awarded. In this regard, the Bill provides for the number of the bank account in the judgment, the application for an enforcement order and the enforcement order itself. In this way, it is possible for voluntary execution, without leading to the formation of enforcement proceedings and the burden of the debtor with additional fees and costs which may increase the obligation on time. It is extremely important to regulate the possibility of appealing the valuation of the immovable property determined by the court contractor by debtors, thus avoiding the cases of selling of the property by the court contractors at a much lower price below the cost of the property itself. We have provided for provisions that the amount of the precautionary measures imposed does not exceed the amount of the obligation. Next, a serious problem for debtors is the creation of the implementation of the Order of Art. 446 in which the determination of the sequestable income of natural persons is linked to the amount of minimum wage. In its current form The provision is practically not applicable because when it was adopted the minimum wage was 220 BGN, changed several times and the minimum limit of 300 BGN regulated in the Order. has not been updated once. As a consequence, not a small part of the debtors tolerate less favourable conditions and, in this regard, a change in the text is proposed, and the retention should be carried out subject to the restrictions laid down in an act of the Council of Ministers. We have also proposed not to be able to put a back-up on the bank account on which funds from remuneration or pension up to the minimum wage, as well as from benefits and benefits. With a view to easing the debtor in art. 454, para. 1 we have proposed that enforcement proceedings may be suspended upon submission of a lower percentage of the obligation in force. The initial contribution at the present time is 30%, we propose to make 20%. It is essential for debtors that excessive charges are collected by private court contractors and that sometimes significantly exceed the obligation. In view of this, it is proposed that a change in the Law on Private Judicial Contractors, under which the amount of fees should not exceed the obligation and that, in the event of default within the period of voluntary execution, no such charges should be collected. With regard to the cost analysis in the preliminary impact assessment, we believe that the Bill will result in a reduction of the burden on citizens with fees and costs for the initiation of enforcement proceedings and enforcement by the court contractor in cases where debtors wish to pay voluntarily but are not given such an opportunity. The legislative initiative provides for a reduction in the level of fees and costs of private contractors, which sometimes exceed the amount of the obligation, and in the event of a payment in the course of voluntary implementation, as I said, the proposal is not to charge fees. The adoption of the Bill does not provide for the merger or closure of administrative structures. The bill provides for amendments to several legal acts. The Law on Private Judicial Contractors, the Law on the Judiciary, which are in the spirit of the proposed amendments to the Civil Procedure Code. Of course, the adoption of an act of the Council of Ministers is also envisaged within three months of the entry into force of the Bill. Dear Members of the National Assembly, this is the short proposal from our Bill. A similar bill was proposed in the previous National Assembly. We have also submitted to the present National Assembly, on a proposal from the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Maya Manolova, through her indirect legislative initiative. This bill is currently at your attention, and we demand its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. An importer's opinion on the next bill? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to present to your attention a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 754-01-12, submitted by MPs from the Political Party GERB. At the outset, I would like to emphasise that the aim of our bill was to reflect the experience gained in the discussions relating to enforcement and enforcement proceedings so far, including to create the prerequisites for a comprehensive and thorough debate, so that we can take reasonable, final decisions within the framework of the discussions that have been going on for more than two years in relation to this matter. Our bill is based on three groups of proposals. The first group of proposals are reflected in the Draft Law of the Council of Ministers by the previous National Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly in 2015. The bill reflects the work of an interdepartmental working group, which took place and held at the Ministry of Justice in 2014 - 2015, which is why we believe that these proposals in their essence reflect the consensus between all participants in the executive process. Apart from that, we have added a brand new regime for the first time to be the subject of discussion, which develops the matter of electronic public sales, of electronic auctions for public sale. This framework has been developed with the assistance of the House of Private Judicial Artists who have interacted with their colleagues from the Baltic States, where this institute works and gives positive results. The third group of our proposals concern the establishment of a 10-year absolute limitation period for all liabilities. I will try briefly to tell some of the more basic points in these three groups of proposals. We have started by improving and establishing the conviction in the enforcement proceedings so that this conviction enables all parties to have equal protection in the enforcement proceedings. We also fill concrete gaps with the proposals for provisions in art. 433a as regards the completion of enforcement proceedings with a view to lifting the precautionary measures imposed. We propose a change in the amount of the voluntary contribution to reduce from 30% to 20% to improve the situation of the debtor. We avoid conflicting practices with regard to the acts by which private judicial contractors are pronounced. We propose changes in the initial prices for the sale of items and establish obligations for the mandatory participation of an expert. This will largely overcome the vicious practices of a property of significant value to be displayed on a public sale at a very low value, to be sold publicly and to remain both unsatisfied creditors and the debtor to have a disproportionate cashout of the property in relation to its obligation. In order to achieve a fair and maximum price in sales of the property, the starting price is proposed to increase from 75 to 85% of the value of the property. This measure to achieve the maximum price at the public sale prevents unjustified suspensions as well as the realization of the sale. We also propose a change in art. 496, in order to overcome the practice of undermining the rights of buyers and applicants, especially in cases where, after the price of the property sold, insolvency proceedings are opened against the debtor. We also propose an amendment to the rules of non-sequivability of income in order to specify the enforcement procedure on debtor's claims, including the obligations of a third party in that proceedings. I would like to tell a little more about the electronic supports, as they could greatly reduce the costs that are loaded on the debtor's back and with a fee of 15 leva. to be carried out electronically in all banks where the debtor could possibly have accounts that could be the subject of the lien. Roughly speaking, this means this cost to be reduced by about 650 BGN. 15 leva. With regard to electronic auctions, this is a brand new framework. As I have already mentioned, it has been successful in the Baltic countries. What is useful in this arrangement is that it overcomes the doubts about the manipulation of the competition of the bidding parties involved in the public sale procedure and is an essential guarantee that the highest possible market price in this non-existent competition is obtained objectively. This measure is both in support of the activity and of private judicial contractors, because in practice, with regard to them, it will eliminate the long-standing suspicion and assumption that they in one way or another contribute to the sale of property, the real estate at a lower price, which harms the interests of both parties. We believe that this objective, remote and transparent means of competition ensure the interests of all participants in the execution process. With regard to our proposal for a 10-year absolute limitation period, we stress that we will remain open to debate in view of the revision of the specific legal rule. We support this legal decision because it will contribute to the ultimate clarity between all parties, the debtors and creditors, including clearing many accumulated liabilities with unclear status back in time, including improving the debtor's status, and also disciplining creditors to carry out their rights in due time. I believe that in the debates we will also have the opportunity to express our views on the other proposals that are numerous and we have made with our bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Opinion on the next bill? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! Before I begin with my presentation, I would like to express my personal satisfaction that we have succeeded in bringing all parliamentary political parties together around this initial initiative of Mrs. Manolova and coming up with quite good ideas that complement each of the laws and build on them. I hope that at first reading we will all be able to support all four bills. I present a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 754-01-5, from 12 May 2017 with importers Plamen Hristov, Albena Naydenova and Polina Tsankova. The aim of the Bill is to guarantee citizens' right of access to justice, to enable debtors to exercise their rights of defence and to enable creditors to secure their claims. The changes of art. Art. 38, Art. 47 aim to ensure that the defendant, respectively the debtor, is able to effectively exercise his right of defence. In this regard, the service by glued notification, as the most unreliable method of calling, is settled as a last resort. Within one month, at least three visits should be made to an address indicated in the case and at least one of them should be either not working or not on an actual day. If the person is not found in that order, he must be sought at present or at a permanent address, and they should be established by the court and only after that will the Institute of Service be applied by glued to a notification. We also propose the appointment of a special representative of the debtor in the ordering procedure which may effectively and promptly take what is necessary in his defence in cases where, despite the above notification measures, the person has not been found. An important proposal on our part is to change art. 73, which is linked to a reduction in proportional charges. The change sets an upper limit of the proportionate fees two per cent on interest and, on application for an order, one per cent on interest which maximum amounts guarantee half the amounts of the present proportional fees. We also propose an amendment to Articles 127, 236 and 412 where an indication of the creditor's bank account is entered, thereby enabling the debtor to voluntarily repay his debt by paying the debt in his already known bank account. We also propose a change in the Order of Art. 391 of the GPC, with the aim of ensuring a real opportunity to secure the claim in cases where the creditor has convincing evidence. According to the proposal of the Political Party, when convincing written evidence is applied, the courts will allow collateral to the claim without the plaintiff providing a guarantee. It is also essential that the change proposed by us, which enables the debtor to suspend the execution of the enforcement order issued in favour of the bank, regardless of which one of the issues listed in the public article. 417 of the GPC is a document. We also propose a change in the Order on determining the non-secessable income of individuals. In our proposal, instead of fixing a specific amount of the limit, the non-sevisible income is tied to the minimum wage, and any change in the minimum wage will automatically affect the non-secessible income of the debtor. This will ensure that the deductions from the debtor's income are proportionate to the current situation in the country. It is also important that the changes we propose in the Bill, presenting the possibilities for appeal by the debtors of a much wider range of actions by the court performers. A change in the Law on Private Judicial Contractors has also been proposed, according to which the amount of fees should not exceed the obligation and, in the event of a voluntary execution, no charges should be collected. This is the shortest so I don't take up your time. I hope that we will all achieve a good law together, after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. The last bill? Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, I will present to you the draft amendment and supplement to the Civil Procedure Code submitted by the Parliamentary Group of.............................................................................................................................................................. We also foresee changes in the service of notifications and court documents, changes in cassation and enforcement proceedings. I will draw your attention to these changes that differ from the laws presented to you so far, where we have different views and different permissions from those you have heard from colleagues before me. Perhaps the most significant change we are proposing is the change in the cassation process. At the present time, the requirement to state on the basis of a cassation appeal, including the application of judgments of the courts relevant to the subject matter of the dispute, has resulted in an extremely serious harassment of the appeal process in the court of Cassation, namely the appeal before the Supreme Court of Cassation. Under the Law, it is the court that must know the Law and know the caselaw, since the existence of such an obligation in the current Civil Procedure Code is contrary to the legal function and competence of the court established in the legal peace. According to statistics and according to the 2016 Supreme Court of Cassation Annual Report, only 13% of the complaints submitted to the court by citizens and legal entities are examined by the Court, i.e. 87% of the complaints lodged are not considered and cannot jump the eligibility phase that exists in the current regulation in the Code. At the moment, in practice, more time is spent on the part of the Supreme Court of Cassation to determine the definitions by which the examination of the appeals is refused, rather than at the same time to rule on them. Thus, the Supreme Court of Cassation becomes a civil court of third cassation as an administrator of complaints, which does not meet its status and functions. The existing order, moreover, is extremely damaging to the work of the procedural representatives of citizens and of legal persons, since the preparation of a cassation complaint with the Cassational grounds which are now envisaged, the search for relevant caselaw is in fact an extremely time-consuming process, which, given the low percentage of Cassational complaints admitted, ultimately demotivates and largely refuses both citizens and legal persons to seek cassation proceedings at all as an opportunity to give a fair judgment. We propose the repeal of the current rules on the eligibility of the cassation dispute. Let us not forget that, according to the Constitution, the administration of justice by the Supreme Court of Cassation should be carried out and not contrary, naturally, with the remaining principle with the other principle in art. 124, for the exercise of supreme judicial oversight of the ICC on the acts of the courts. It should not be the uniform principle that takes place at the expense of the other, so we propose dropping those eligibility grounds that exist now so that we can provide citizens and legal entities with a real third cassation instance, thereby believing that we will achieve fair and effective justice in the interests of citizens and businesses, which will help to develop the law and respect the law. Next, we suggest a change in art. 410 in the ordering procedure by expressly providing for the possibility for the employee, respectively the employee who has a cash claim to his employer, present or former, to be able to request a enforcement order to be issued and thus benefit from this accelerated order for the recovery of his claims. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 417, in the immediate ordering procedure, we propose that banks be excluded as an entity that can be compared with an order for immediate execution based on documents or an extract from books establishing their claims. We believe that such a privilege is permissible for the state and municipalities as public-law entities defending public interest, but we cannot accept that the same applies to banks, which, although a particular kind of trader, receive a privilege that no other private-law entity at this time has, which is, of course, at least unfair to other civil turnover participants. We also foresee significant changes in the executive process, perhaps one of the most important 468, with the aim of achieving maximum protection of the interests of the parties, in determining the initial prices of property sales, for items worth more than 5 thousand. lv. we are introducing the rule that the appointment of an expert and thus facilitates the judicial contractor, since the latter does not have any special knowledge of the characteristics of all items and their working in society, which is why we think it is more appropriate for the assessment to be carried out by a specialist. For property with a lower value, the appointment of an expert depends on the will of the parties or the need for special knowledge. It is envisaged that each party may challenge the price of the item to be determined and request a new assessment with the appointment of an expert. There is also an obligation for the court contractor to respect the challenge and request for a new assessment, as well as the right of the party to appeal against its refusal in this case if it has not complied with the request. In this way, we believe to a significant extent that the assessment given by the court contractor is excessively increased or unjustifiedly reduced due to lack of sufficient knowledge and competence in the area concerned. The fair valuation corresponding to the real market prices is in the interest of both the applicant and the debtor and ensures greater security of the public sale. In the Law on Private Judicial Contractors, we have proposed that, when the debtor fulfils his obligations within the time limit for voluntary execution, no charges should be charged to him, and thus we believe that the conscientious debtors will be encouraged to fulfil their obligations within that time limit without the use of enforcement methods. Finally, in the Law on Obligations and Contracts, we offer a slightly more radical reading of the problem of establishing the absolute 10-year limitation on private-law obligations. At the moment, in addition to the general and special limitation in the Criminal Code and the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, they introduce the so-called............................................................................................ Only in the case of private relations does there exist an arrangement which regulates the absolute limitation. The lack of such an arrangement already with this proposal that we have made, and what colleagues from GERB do, this will be stopped. We, in contrast to their proposal, propose that, with the expiry of the 10-year limitation period, all claims be repaid whether or not they are secured against natural persons, regardless of the suspension or interruption of the limitation, thereby eliminating the figure of the eternal debtor and uniformising the regime of absolute limitation on public and private claims, something which is not a fact at this time. In order to avoid abuse, we provide for this right not to apply not only to the obligations of commercial companies or sole traders, but also to all obligations of natural persons relating to claims against them for employment benefits, employment benefits or compensation from unlawful damage. I take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues from the Committee on Legal Affairs who have supported our bill and call for your support, taking into account the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u15	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Mr. Popov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, my speech will be very brief. With regard to the Bill submitted by the colleagues from the "United Patriarchs", the same in its entirety we support as principles and ideas, it comes close to the one we offer as philosophy, but there is also quite an extension of the scope of the Law itself concerning cassation appeal and eligibility to cassation. You know that the Law has been amended with regard to eligibility to cassation, with a view to limiting possibilities and introducing requirements and grounds for cassation appeal. Here, as far as we understand it, Members of the United patriots are proposing to open this door, which is not bad in itself, but should be very well refined and publicly discussed, and of course to have such a discussion between first and second reading if the bills are adopted at first reading, as well as the representatives of the judiciary themselves. With regard to GERB's Bill, namely in its Transitional and Final Provisions, which refers to the amendment of the Law on Obligations and Contracts, namely the 10-year absolute limitation, this is a step in the right direction in principle, such as philosophy. A step that we have also insisted on and insist on happening. The problem is the legislative technique itself. Why should this change be made, first of all, through the GPC and not directly in the Law on Obligations and Contracts? Parliamentary time and parliamentary equipment could be saved on the one hand. On the second hand, this is a really complex legal case, a process because this proposal changes a lot of public relations, concerns a lot of laws, there are a number of cases where the statute of limitations does not run at all in which the statute of limitations is suspended or terminated. This is not affected in their proposal. Next, the so-made proposal, in fact, is a figurative blow to the air, because there is a provision that a 10-year absolute limitation does not concern secured claims. Honourable Members, they all claim the main claims that are on the banks, they are all secured in one way or another, so that this will not significantly affect the ability of the debtor after 10 years, when this absolute limitation period expires, and in practice, it will be able to re-enter the civil service. Next, this is the first step, but it follows the Bulgarian Parliament to take its second step - it is extremely complex, concerning the regulation of a wide range of public relations, and ultimately to proceed to the discussion. I repeat, this is a complex process requiring thorough analysis, public discussions. To be introduced into the Bulgarian legislation the so-called, civil-known, the Law for the bankruptcy of individuals. There is such a type of legislation in a number of developed European countries, such as Germany, but there this Law has been discussed for years so that it can be applied in their legal system, in their legal peace and public one. In Bulgaria we cannot directly transfer neither the 10-year absolute limitation nor the Law on the bankruptcy of individuals because we have our specifics. But we should start discussing this case and this problem. In general, as principles, as philosophy, all bills have a general beginning and their common objectives, of course, with those exceptions that I mentioned just now. We will support the bills at first reading, but with this agreement regarding the two bills, what I quoted just now from the bills themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any further comments? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The colleague Popov touched on two important topics I will focus on several others. The drafts submitted by the BSP for Bulgaria and Voljja. recognize Mrs. Maya Manolova's proposals, which clearly identifies a problem that she has seen in her successors, which we are obliged to solve the problem of private judicial contractors. These proposals of our colleagues from Volja and of BSP for Bulgaria are very much similar in the part of the call, as well as in the part of dropping the privilege for banks in the immediate execution, awarding and to state judicial contractors the powers to collect public claims and others. It deserves support at first reading and the Bill proposed by the MPs from GERB.. in its part, which provides for a change in the conviction, and in terms of reducing the amount of the initial voluntary contribution for the debtor, and changes in the framework of non-secessibility. Particular attention deserves to be given to the introduction of an opportunity to conduct electronic public auctions for the sale of items on which implementation is directed through an online platform established and maintained by the Justice Ministry. Perhaps now is the time to pay attention, as the legislator must also learn from his mistakes. Since there is no delay in the provisions in question, only a one-year period since the promulgation of the Law, I believe that it should be taken into account from now on and careful not to fall into the situation in which it has recently emerged with regard to the online public procurement platform. As you know, according to the Public Procurement Act of 1 July 2017, a single electronic platform for carrying out the procedures was to be operational, the so-called "WeB" platform, which, however, did not happen in time. This has created serious problems and can continue to create. In principle, we will support all four bills, but we have a lot of work to do, both on the issues that the previous one has put forward, namely the order of cassation appeal and the issue of the eternal debtor, it is not enough in principle to agree that something must be done, and we must do it well, and with regard to all other provisions. We also rely on your support and on the fact that in the Legal Committee we have all stated that we are determined to find the right and dignified solution to these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u19	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Parliamentary Group will support all four proposed legislations. We hope with the preparation of the joint report on the four second reading projects to clear all the differences that we have on specific things. The fact is, we don't get away with what they're after. There is no difference in the fact that we have to put an end to the conduct of some representatives of the House of Private Judicial Contractors. You have to put order. There must also be an end to the so-called "supplied debtor'. Too many people are already talking about thousands, dozens, and perhaps hundreds who are unable to repay their loans. And although they have submitted at the time of signing this loan collateral for 100, 150, 200% of the value of the loan, it appears that these collaterals are sold for less than 50% of that value and the borrower continues to owe. Collector companies and court contractors continue to collect these claims. Between the two readings, we will propose a text............................ which we think is a little more precise and will put an end to the figure of the eternal debtor. The other proposal that we will make together with some gaps in the GPC, we will propose that the fees collected by the judicial contractors enter the Law. We will thus provide a more permanent framework for these fees, which will be much more difficult to amend after holding a public debate, but this will be done between the two readings. Now we will support all four projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u21	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Are there any lines to his statement? I can't see. Any other speeches, fellow Members? Here you go, Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It has already become clear at the presentation of the bill submitted by the parliamentary group of "United patriots" that we will support both the ideas and the decisions contained in the other drafts, which are the subject of today's discussion. The tone of the speeches makes it easier for me to confirm precisely this intention and this desire of all importers to resolve public issues which, on different channels, have clearly reached the consciousness and interest of the parliamentary parties represented, to the MPs, including with the help of the Ombudsman, in order to assess the seriousness of the problems affecting the interests of many Bulgarian citizens and businesses. I would like to make a summary of what lies ahead of us as a work before second reading, before considering the relevant case studies, in trying to find a solution to these common and significant problems. We must not forget that any debtor we are talking about is also a creditor; that before he is an eternal debtor, the debtor has become such; that in many cases his quality is due to his personal choice, to an act which has not been sufficiently well appreciated or has not been reasonable enough. I would like to say that with these changes we are proposing, we do not introduce tax or any other kind of amnesty in terms of obligations of businesses and Bulgarian citizens. The attention to own affairs should be increased in relation to these changes that we propose and which aim at the discipline of the parties involved in the executive process and also the responsibility of citizens who are currently going to make similar decisions that would bring them to similar problems. With regard to the proposals relating to changes in the cassation proceedings in the civil process, as regards the possibility of obtaining privileged claims of certain entities under art. 417 of the GPC, I think we will find common ground, regardless of the reservations that have been expressed here, in the name of the main objective, in the name of discipline the parties, speed up the process and achieve fairer and more timely judicial decisions. In this regard and in the context of the general spirit of the speeches, by stating and repeating that from the "United Patriarchs" we will support the bills under consideration, I call on the Members of the National Assembly to support all the bills with which to create an opportunity for responsible, precise and professional work to draw up specific texts that will make the civil process working and the results of it............................for the expectations of the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you for your opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u23	Thank you, Mr. Notev. Are there any lines to his statement? I can't see. A statement has been made by Mr. Daniel Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u24	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have taken part in the work on the bills concerning the Civil Procedure Code, as in this Parliament, so I will allow myself to address this gratitude for assistance to colleagues from the previous Parliament who are not in the composition of the current Parliament. It is important to me that we have resumed, and it is an energetic debate that has lasted over a year, a year and a half. It is true that some of those who have already been discussed are repeated. It is true that for completeness, there are renewed statements on which I think we have reached a relatively uniform legal conclusion on their adequacy and relevance. In any case, I believe that this debate is extremely useful in this form and now, at the start of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I think we will be sufficiently prepared to complete this work as successfully as possible. I would also like to thank the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and its team because, with its energy and insistence, we have been placed in this time press to find maximum deadlines, maximum optimization of discussions and discussions on the bill. As in the debates in the Legal Committee, we have reached a serious consensus on the principles of the forthcoming amendments. I am also based on a previous speaker, who stressed the same... the unity of the objectives in the amendments. I wouldn't want to talk about the differences in the bill. We have differences in individual legal decisions, but if we go to discuss them now one by one, we will rather deepen the differences than unite in terms of the need for a reasonable and accurate balance. I'll allow myself to put on an accent, and it's very well-intentioned, only in two directions. Firstly, in view of the speech of colleague Philip Popov regarding the place of our proposal for a 10-year absolute limitation period. Yes, formally and absolutely speaking, the place of this proposal is exactly in the Law on Obligations and Contracts. Our previous two proposals have directed and addressed this change to the DPA. We offer it to you in the Civil Procedure Code package, although this is a material norm, undoubtedly, but it has very serious procedural consequences. Those procedural consequences are also directly linked to the development of enforcement proceedings. Therefore, the logic and effect of an absolute limitation period, and it is here that our idea is the absolute limitation period to repay not only the right to an action, as is the case for the ordinary limitation period, but to repay the obligation itself. In other words, this is indeed a double-action norm in terms of both material law and the executability of possession. Therefore, we believe that the place of this institute as logic is in the current package of changes. Yes, again, we are open to all proposals and comments regarding the scope and effect of an absolute limitation period. Even in the Legal Committee, we commented on some more extreme possible manifestations of this institute. I will allow myself to say the second group of questions concerning the proposals relating to amendments to art. 417, as regards banks and the possible withdrawal of banks as entities that may be a party wanted in the ordering proceedings. I will strongly maintain a position against dropping the banks as an entity in executive production. I believe that this position is absolutely justified that it protects our entire financial credit system and is at the heart of the stability of many relationships that concern absolutely all Bulgarian citizens. I would like to stress that banks are not just creditors. Colleagues, please note that banks are not just creditors! The banks keep our money, the money of the depositors. In these operations, banks are debtors. On these operations, we require banks to have adequate and accurate behaviour. I would ask all my fellow Members to take into account the fact that any citizen may have any written document indicating any obligation to issue an enforcement order, why shouldn't banks do so? Once the caselaw has reached the point of ordering execution even in the case of a penalty claim, colleagues, for a penalty which is always disputed in respect of the performance of a contract, and for each person, why should the bank, which is a regulated entity which is monitored by multiple indicators, be unable to make such a request? I think we're just designing a deliberately created, I'd say, an unfairly created, unfair treatment. Here it is wiser to regulate this process with a view to protecting, guaranteeing, the possibility of the debtor knowing that his credit has become early due. I will not comment on the interpretation decisions of the Supreme Court of Cassation in this direction. But we, as legislator, must assess this guarantee. No, rudely, to cut the source, but to guarantee the proper and lawful development of the executive process. With regard to improving the regime of private judicial enforcement, with a view to overcoming the negative practices of private judicial contractors, we will support this direction in principle. I think we'll find good working solutions to balance this activity. I also draw attention to the fact that some of these relations are not governed by the law, but are regulated by tariffs which are a legislative act and are within the competence of the Ministry of Justice. Once again, I would like to stress that it is high time for the Ministry of Justice to verify, update and correct, where necessary, its tariff policy on individual types of performances. The correct and fair lines are that only with private court contractors do we actually have limitless fees, proportionate, endless fees, which are determined on the basis of interest, i.e. the value of property. Compare it with the notaries, even there the notary fee has a limit. Outside the scope of these bills, I pay attention to this: if someone does an outrage, if someone jumps on the head of debtors over the law, despite the law, these are hardly just private contractors. When will we look at what they do and the so-called collective companies? What are the regulations regarding collector companies? Yeah, they're not in the Civil Procedure Code. Shouldn't the practice be improved there, too? It's certainly necessary. Citizens outside each morning meet me with notifications of a debt transfer that are absolutely outrageous by a legal party, no attributes, no amount of obligation, and three places where the debtor will fulfill his limitation 12 years ago. Is that acceptable? Isn't that an attempt at legal blackmail on the debtor's back? I will therefore ask, although we are beyond this range, that we do not forget the scope of what lies ahead of us, the work that lies ahead of us. I will state my support at this stage and to the four draft laws that are the decision of our parliamentary group. I also thank the leadership of our parliamentary group, the lawyers from it who participated in the work. I will invite everyone, regardless of whether at the beginning of October we will make a long-planned scientific-theoretical, analytical conference on the ten-year application of the GPC, or we will have to withdraw it in mid-September. Dear Members, honourable citizens, honourable organisations, associations and entities, there have been at least three months from now. Let the public debate on each of the problems proposed for solving take place in these three months. We worked for two years, but it turns out not everyone knows that. Let all interested in these three months see what the proposals are, offer separate different ways of solving, so that at the end of September we can proceed to a second reading on the bills, as prepared and maximum supported by both our voters and by all subjects who have rights and obligations in this regard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u25	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. There's a line. People's representative Hamid Hamid, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Kirilov! At first, I also reacted purely firsthand to abolish any privilege of banking institutions, specifically within the norm of art. 417. But when we think about it, if we remove this text instead of writing eyebrows, we'll pluck out our eyes. Why, colleagues? Because in this way, we do not solve anything, we simply remove one method rather than solve the problem itself. We remove the ability of the bank to use the ability to obtain an executive title, but the ability of others as much as you want. With what will this bank replace the eventual removal of this order? With a notary endorsement of the contracts, colleagues, i.e. the banks will start to notarize all the contracts. Do you think the banks will pay the notary fee? Everything will be loaded on the back of the borrower himself and a possible debtor. Eliminating the norm of art. 417 in the part concerning the privileges of banks, we will further burden each possible debtor with a much more serious amount, i.e. the banks will replace the text we have repealed. So I'm starting to have reservations about changing art. 417. The text that concerns the absolute need for the text proposed by you solves only a partial problem. We need to go a little deeper, we need to expand it almost to the extent of the proposal of our fellow Members from the United Patriarchs. We have to find the middle, or rather it has to be almost the end of their proposal. This is my opinion on this issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u27	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Second line, Mr. Philip Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Kirilov, regarding your statement about collector companies, yes, we agree. We're ready to start working in that direction from tomorrow. Note, however, that the collectors themselves are ultimately a creditor because their respective claim has been sedated. However, for the method of execution, enforcement against the debtor, we again refer to private judicial contractors. Regarding banks, in our bill, no one deprives the banks of their ability in executive production. We're talking about art. 417 It is precisely the action to stop the execution, because objective truth, the judicial pursuit takes place really in the lawsuit. There it is established whether the debtor owes and whether the amount of liabilities is the one claimed by the bank and not when the bank directly obtains an executive title, then to establish whether the debtor owes and how much it owes after the bank has already collected its claim. This is precisely the additional burden on the parties throughout the process with additional costs. With regard to what my colleague Hamid said, yes, it is. Indeed, the banks will try to bypass this norm, giving a notary, notary certification of the signatures of all types of contracts not only in relation to the real estate issues, but, on the one hand, notary certification of the signature of a contract, firstly, does not cost as much as it will come out of the debtor when an executive sheet is drawn against it, without having the practical possibility to defend itself in the claim process, or if there is such an opportunity, the claim will already be collected. Secondly, we are ready to think in that direction. Between first and second readings, we have enough time to think about this as well. No one disputes that banks are regulated by the state, by the various institutions. What is happening in civil turnover, in civil production indeed a number of people, Bulgarian citizens suffer immensely from these adversities to one degree or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u29	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Is there a third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u30	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Now, you see how fragile an agreement could actually be. I thank my fellow Members who replicated, thank Mr Hamid for having come to this conclusion with regard to the principles which concern Art. 417 The easy ways to get around and how much these easy ways cost. Yeah, that's actually gonna load up the debtor with some notary fees. I do not agree with Mr. Popov's opinion that they will be almost symbolic. The notary fees are based on interest, that is, they will be a percentage on the material interest of the certified document and will not be so small and symbolic that they do not matter at all. I'm taking this opportunity to move on to my colleague Popov's objection. Colleague, Popov, that's why ten years ago it seemed so attractive the ordering procedure and it fooled the audience just because it was unilateral production. It's where the debtor doesn't participate. The debtor understands at the end when an order for execution is issued, but he can very easily overcome this order for execution with a single appeal. However, the debtor does not understand that that action follows an indicative two-year process, and that costs follow, if the action is respected, all the costs of both parties are burdened by the debtor. That's what we had to explain for ten years. I don't know. Politicians, lawyers, all of us. Once again, whatever we do, we must ensure that the debtor is notified of the order for execution so that he can have proper conduct until the next step in this process Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u31	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other statements? I can't see. We proceed to the vote, please, the Quaestors to invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber. I vote on Draft Law No 750-01-03 of 10 May 2017, tabled by the National Representative Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 139 MPs: for 139 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote Draft Law No 750-01-19, submitted by Plamen Trifonov Hristov, Albena Vladimirova Naydenova and Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova on 12 May 2017. They voted 137 MPs: for 137, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I vote on Draft Law No 754-01-12, tabled by Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017. They voted 145 MPs: for 145, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the last draft, No 750-01-89, submitted on 4 July 2017 by Christian Radev Mitev and a group of MPs. They voted 144 MPs: for 144, against and abstention there is no. Impressive and rare unanimity. Congratulations. [[Applause.]] A wish to take the floor expressed the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria Mrs. Maya Manolova. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thank you for the support of all four bills and also for the proposals I made together with civil organisations in the order and enforcement proceedings to limit the superpowers of private contractors, banks and monopoly companies. In this way, you have given a clear sign that you stand on the side of public interest, on the side of the interests of your constituents, and not on the side of private economic interests. You have also shown that politicians can abandon political disputes and go to the problems of their voters to hear them and solve them. We all know that the devil is hidden in the details, so I will very carefully monitor the work on the bills between first and second readings. I hope that representatives of magistrates, experts, civil organisations, mandatory representatives of the Association of Private Judicial Contractors and Banks will be involved so that all views can be heard and the best and most precise decisions can be reached. I very much hope that between first and second reading the philosophy of the Bill, its main points will not be changed, as has already happened in the front parliaments, but will remain the adopted changes related to the call so that citizens cannot be judged without knowing. A proportionality between the execution methods and the amount of debt will be introduced so that for a small debt of 100 BGN. not to imprison all your property, your bank accounts, your paychecks, your vehicles, your housing. It is also possible to appeal property valuations so as not to be sold for pennies and, of course, to reduce the fees of private court contractors. I am optimistic that all this will happen because the changes were supported by both the government and the opposition, because when the justice is defended, there is no dissatisfied, and the success is for all the government and for both the opposition and especially for the Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. Ladies and gentlemen, a 30-minute break follows, and then we continue with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u34	Dear Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly, we are continuing today's work. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New requests for the period from 30 June 2017 to 6 July 2017. First, there is a request from the National Representative Pavel Shopov to Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, on the treatment of crops and fruit crops with prohibited and dangerous preparations for bees. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 14 July 2017. Another question received by the MPs Hristo Grudev and Zhivko Martinov to Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water, on the development and implementation of the state policy in the field of environment. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 14 July. Written response from: - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov on two issues by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov. - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva. - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Sirakov. - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev. - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov. - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on a question from the National Representative Krasen Krastev. - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski. - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Penev. - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov. - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov. - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Kalin Vassilev. - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Tsvetan Topchiev. We move on to a question by MP Cornelia Ninova on a White Paper on Europe's development proposed by Mr Juncker, President of the European Commission. The question is to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria "Boiko Borisov." Here you are, dear Mrs. Ninova, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u35	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Bulgaria will be President of the Council of the European Union at an extremely important time for both Europe and Bulgaria. There are solutions for its future at a crossroads, ahead of a choice where Europe will develop, including Bulgaria, important decisions on migration policy, Britain's exit and the consequences for us, cohesion policy after 2020 and others. In March, Mr Juncker proposed five options for Europe's development. The first one is the same as before. It seems to us that this would be difficult to implement even because Britain would leave the European Union. Adding to this the contradictions between the leaders of different Member States in Europe, the accumulated problems Europe needs change. His second option is: only a single market. This raises the question of the value of our common union, which is called the free movement of people. Does this mean that we will return borders and customs and reduce Europe only to free movement of goods? The third option they propose is: one Member State to do more, another less the so-called "Europe of two, three and more speeds." It is also not acceptable for us because instead of the catching up development of Bulgaria to the level of other European countries, the differences between the Member States will deepen. Fourth, to do less but more effectively proposes Brussels, that is, fewer decisions to be taken in common in Europe and to give more power to national parliaments and governments. And fifth, to do more together, that is, more decisions to make in common in Brussels, and national parliaments and governments to simply implement them. Here is Bulgaria's choice, and in the year when it will chair, that is, it will be leading as a state and as policies. Mr. Prime Minister, unfortunately, your government at this stage reduced the Presidency to internal party disputes, corruption charges, pressure, public procurement disputes and money. But I wouldn't want to talk to you like that today. Let us leave this to the prosecution, there is also a Commission in Parliament, the authorities to rule. Today my word is on politics. That is why I ask you: Your government and your majority partners, are you discussing these issues? Which of the five options is Bulgaria stopping at? Have you expressed such a position yet? What priorities will you propose as Prime Minister of a country which presides over the Council? But priorities that guarantee the future of our common Union not only but priorities to be felt by every Bulgarian citizen. Is this going to be the catch-up incomes to those of Europeans; will it be the guaranteed health care as it is in Europe; will it be Northwestern Bulgaria to reach the level of development of South Bulgaria? Because in this room and in society we have not yet heard your word on these matters.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u36	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Prime Minister, you have five minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u37	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Ninova! The White Paper on Europe's Future presents five European Union development scenarios by 2025. The political and expert analysis shows that they consider hypotheses that are not necessarily mutually exclusive. Each of the five models contains opportunities and challenges, and the government works so that Bulgaria can make the most of the decisions that will be formulated. The scenarios relating to Europe at different speeds can only be considered acceptable if they are based on the will of a country a member decides for himself where he wants to be and not another to determine its place. Bulgaria has an interest in participating in a strong and united Europe with more integration. I am convinced that our country belongs in the core, not in the periphery of the European Union. Of particular importance for us is our inclusion in the Schengen area and in the Eurozone, and Bulgaria successfully meets the criteria set out in the Stability and Growth Pact. Strengthening integration is what we aim for in Europe's development. On this basis, we also need to deepen our participation in the Economic and Monetary Union, as well as in the initiatives for social integration of the countries of the Eurozone. We also need a European defence force to complement NATO, for example, in guarding our external borders. At this crucial moment, we are given the unique chance to chair the Council of the European Union and to be a major driver in making policies for a stronger and more united European Union. The already approved Programme of the countries of the trio of Estonia, Bulgaria and Austria for the period 1 July 2017. . 31 December 2018, it proposes future-oriented priorities focused on citizens' expectations, joint overcoming common challenges and achieving real results, all of this has been developed in the five main priorities. Firstly, a Union of Jobs, growth and competitiveness, focuss on the single market, entrepreneurship and job creation, sustainable environment, investment in the future, economic and monetary union. Secondly, a union which empowers and protects all its citizens and we are focusing our efforts on the social dimension and, in particular, on the European pillar of social rights, equal treatment and non-discrimination, promoting social justice in the fight against poverty and social exclusion, gender equality, modernisation of training, taking into account the role of teachers and school leaders. Cohesion policy is extremely important for us, which helps us reduce inequalities in the European Union. We need modernization of European education systems with a focus on better integration of young people. Thirdly, an energy union aimed at future climate policy. For us this means more regional cooperation, especially for the construction of missing infrastructure, security, diversification of supply. It must end the isolation of some of the Member States from European transmission and transmission networks. Fourth, an alliance of freedom, security and justice. This means fair justice for all but also further combating terrorism and better mutual compatibility of EU information systems and databases. Fifth, the Union as a powerful factor on the world stage. We focus on the implementation of the European Union's global strategy, migration, the Western Balkans, stabilisation of the European Union's neighbouring regions, as well as strengthening cooperation beyond the EU's neighbouring regions, development and trade policy. An extremely important topic within this priority is strengthening control at the external borders of the European Union and more efficient management of migration processes. This requires further cooperation with the countries of origin and transit. Following the programme of the trio, Bulgaria is developing a national programme for the period of its presidency, which will focus on the topics and areas of the European agenda, which it considers particularly important in view of the future development of the European Union and which it will seek to achieve the significant results. The work on the project of the programme started once after the approval of the program of the trio with upcoming presidencies of Estonia, Bulgaria and Austria until 20 July 2017 by the Council of Ministers of the three countries, its presentation at the level of prime ministers of the three countries in the framework of the European Council on 23 June 2017. In the process of developing the National Programme of the Bulgarian Presidency, the crucial fact is that the country's main role is to be a neutral arbitrator and balancer within the framework of the negotiation process in the European Union and to seek to protect the common European objectives. In developing the Programme, a decentralised approach shall be applied to identify priority topics and files that are still applied in the development of strategic and planning documents of EU issues. On the basis of the proposals from the portfolio ministries, a draft programme has been drawn up to be agreed by the Council on European Affairs. It will be reviewed at a meeting of the Council of Ministers on 11 July, then proposed for discussion in a wide range with all interested parties, including it will be presented to you in the National Assembly. The draft program will also be sent to the President. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u38	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mrs. Ninova, you have two minutes for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u39	Yeah, so far, so good. I have the right to two specific issues, and they are two of the policies that the Prime Minister mentioned: the migration and the two-speed Europe. Let's move on to a specific conversation on migration. Mr. Prime Minister, there is a discussion in Europe about the adoption of additional migrant quotas by Member States. The Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary said "no," we will not accept any further. And the European Commission has announced that it is launching a criminal procedure against them. You, when you met with Mrs Merkel, what commitments did you make for Bulgaria? Have you committed Bulgaria to accept an additional quota of migrants? If not, will this have consequences for our country? If yes, how much will we accept, when and on what schedule? I am asking this for a reason because last week the government and the majority voted on a loan of around 400 million. lv. and in the Annex, I specify, of course, the loan is for co-financing by programmes, but in the annex to the treaty, there is one place where it says one thing about migrants. Have you committed to quota and some of this loan will be used for this first question? My second supplementary for the two-speed Europe. Mr. Borisov, when we argued with you in the election campaign, we have been asking for years about the different quality of food, then you accused us of being anti-Europeans, that with this talk we will bring Bulgaria out of the European Union and so on. The time has come for your government to establish that there are double standards in food. Here, it's a two-speed Europe. The Visegrad Four states categorically said: "We will not allow this to happen and have taken measures to protect our own production. From the Bulgarian Socialist Party, we have introduced a law that supports domestic production, the majority of GERB and the patriots rejected it in committee. I mean, what is your position on this two-speed Europe policy? What are you going to do about this topic - double food standards? Have you accepted that Bulgaria will be at the second speed and will eat such food, or have you expressed to your partners in Brussels, in your meetings, disagreement with such a policy, and if you do not agree, please support our law?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Dear Prime Minister, come in for an answer, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Ninova! I've had a hard time checking, but I think we talked about the food in Vratsa and you talked about the food the next day, but I'm not sure I'll check it out and see who talked about it first. Who was the first person to have this conversation as a debate in the election campaign? However, as far as migration is concerned, I can tell you what position I have taken and what I have spoken to the European Council. Of course, with President Steinmeyer and Chancellor Merkel and President Macron, it is the same thing, if you ask me, that there be no three questions about the three whether I had a different position. The problem is that the Supreme Four did not in principle want to accept migrants, not that it does not want additional quotas. We agreed to 1200 if I was not mistaken the memory that would come to Bulgaria in relocation. There's two of them, one escaped. [[Radio.]] Now, I understand the trend in the issue, but at the European Council, I asked my colleagues a question, and we assume that we are accepting migrants. 1,200, will you allow me to do prison to keep them there? Since if you request a cross-border police report, you will see that we already have 20s each, 30 times the same person on the border with Serbia, we return him to the Centre, he flees again, we capture him again, we bring him back again. They just don't want to stay here, they don't want to stay in Hungary, and they don't want to stay in Poland. There's a more global dispute going on. I don't want to go in the stands between the Visegrad Four and the other part of Europe. So not only have we not made any commitment, we cannot even fulfill our old commitment for the simple reason that the migratory pressure at the moment is almost zero and at the same time, even what we have accepted as a relocation, they do not want to return to Bulgaria. So nothing further than what your government accepted a few months ago. There's nothing different, and neither have I made a commitment from what has so far. Even the caretaker government took a harder decision than ours did. So in this regard, I can reassure you. What is being said about the two-speed Europe, so we are making so much effort to enter the Eurozone waiting room. Otherwise, we, you know, under a pre-accession treaty must adopt the euro in a given period of time. Entering the waiting room does not pose a risk to us because it guarantees two things: investment and reduction of interest on loans as a whole, and the indicators have fulfilled them. However, if we do not go in this direction, we cannot be angry with the countries that have euros that want to defend themselves after Greece what happened, their currency. So we must approach with understanding, and if we do not want to fall into second, third or fifth speeds of gas in order to reach and go in the heart, in the core of developed European countries, and meet our criteria. On Monday, you know that we were given all access to the Schengen Information System, and already Bulgaria's entry into Schengen is a purely political solution, but you know that the Netherlands does not yet have a government. So I don't see anything here that could be bothering us right now. The decisions from the discussions are so far away that I do not see how in the coming years it will even come to a decision. The main problem that hangs with terrible power is Brexit, and in my opinion, this divorce, which I have told Mrs. May, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Chairman, that in my experience, divorces are always expensive and the children suffer. That is what I have told Mrs. May, and you will see that in no way, let me be a bad prophet, let me be disproved afterwards, but this divorce will be very expensive, and very difficult for Europe and Britain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u42	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. [[Applause from GERB.]] Dear Mrs. Ninova, you have two minutes for treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u43	Mr. Prime Minister, as far as our food dispute is concerned, let's not rely on our memory, let's see the facts. At the forty-third National Assembly we fought a hard battle for the retail chains and then your MPs were against it, finished with success for us, and we will continue this battle. In essence, there are contradictions in your words about refugees. We haven't made any commitments, they don't want to stay here, but we're taking a loan to integrate them. You didn't tell me anything about the loan. Why do you need that money? With regard to double standards, I ask you about the quality of food and not about entering Schengen. On Schengen, we have no contradictions. I'm asking you about the quality of the food, what position will you express? Will you follow Mr. Orbán, for example, whom you admire...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u44	They admire me, too!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u45	...to the other leaders of the Visegrad Four, will you protect the domestic production, will you give an incentive to the Bulgarian economy? Hey, that's the kind of thing I'm asking you, not general talk about Schengen. Now, you share well in these meetings your personal experience, your personal life, divorces, women and children. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]] He says it, I don't push him to say it. I ask you: at these meetings did you raise the question of the fate of the Bulgarians who are now studying and working in the UK and what will happen? You didn't get to go well. Talk about divorces, we will raise the question of the fate of the Bulgarians. And now, Mr. Borisov, after the elections, there was a meeting between our two leaderships of the parties here in parliament. Then we talked about possible joint actions between BSP and GERB. We rejected your proposal as a minister in your BSP cabinet. We rejected the proposal to become President of Parliament, but I gave you my word that, under the Presidency of Bulgaria of the Council of the European Union, you have our full support because this is a cause for Bulgaria and Bulgaria can benefit from this. I have set you a condition that all issues of the Presidency be resolved in Parliament, because this is a parliamentary republic and before you go anywhere outside and express your position, to discuss it here and to accept it, and you will have our support because this is a cause for Bulgaria. You promised, you said yes, we will do it wonderfully in parliament. Of course, you lied to me, Mr. Borisov. You go, you make commitments. The Bulgarian Parliament knows nothing. You are saying now that the National Programme on European Presidency is yet to be discussed and will be adopted yet, but you have already signed the priorities with the Troika. Moreover, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your colleague from Estonia, before signing, stood before Estonia's parliament and spoke there and received support before signing. You signed something, and the national program will be watched in September. Therefore, because of your disrespect for Parliament, because you are missing the Presidency...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u46	Time, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u47	...that you brought it down to one tile and one corruption, we take the initiative [[Calls from GERB: "Eeeee! ", noise and lines]] and we're putting forward a motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u48	Time, Mrs. Ninova! Mrs. Ninova, this is out of the procedure, please! Thank you. [[Provides President Dimitar Glauchev with a document folder.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u49	Seventy signatures, we want a debate in the Chamber and a responsible national position of the Bulgarian Parliament on the Bulgarian Presidency. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Call to the left: The Deb's scheduled! When is the debate?]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u50	We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Petar Vitanov about the creation of a common European army.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u51	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am obliged to point out, Prime Minister, that your position on the creation of a common European army, especially in the increasingly active interstate debate on the future of Europe, is controversial and does not give the fundamental basis on which the competent authorities and experts could work out a position for our country, one that responds, firstly, to the national interest, and, secondly, with which to participate in the forthcoming talks on the future of European defence. On June 6th, you officially stated that Europe needs a uniform army. According to your words, the way to save money and secure security is a common European army with the tanks of Germany and other military formations of the other European countries. Moreover, you have proposed that the European Union become a collective member of NATO. This last very confused me because, as far as I know, there are countries in the European Union that are neutral, and there are others who do not wish to join NATO and would not want the Union to become an addition to the military Alliance. Your view has contradicted the last European Commission document. As you probably know, on 7 June the European Commission published a reflection document setting out the three scenarios for the future of European defence and none of them mentions the creation of a common European army. It is only in the latter that hints, I quote: a gradual definition of a common European Union defence policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u52	The two minutes are up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u53	Just a second, I'm done. The High Commissioner for Foreign Policy also hastened to clarify that it was not a European army, but a European defence, but three days later, on June 10th, German Defence Minister Ursula von der Lyon categorically said that there would be no common European army. My question to you, Prime Minister, is: at what stage are the talks about the creation of this common European army? Who are these conversations being held because it is obviously not with the European chiefs? Is there any clarity about the weapons Bulgaria will participate in? We understand the tanks are from Germany.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u56	Prime Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u57	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vitanov! A lot of things that are today change after that. 20 years ago, there was a Warsaw treaty and NATO. Those who were in the Warsaw Treaty are now in NATO. My logic to offer my fellow Members the common European defence is precisely what I said. Austria, Finland and other countries that respect neutrality, it is the same, by the way, or are not members of NATO, are also armed. And I asked my colleagues in the European Council: what would happen if we were attacked now? Who can attack Europe? They're 4-5 possibilities, no more. And I asked a question: why, instead of the European Commission, do we have a budget, to divide 2% as much as NATO requires, and to secure funding, as we have all committed. And then the military experts, our strategists to say, and for German tanks I didn't speak because the manufacturers of military equipment in Europe are 5-6, the others are in America, Russia and China. They're not much of an election. We have a chance to produce in Bulgaria, our military industrial industry and I am convinced it will. My logic was this: 2% is separated, Bulgaria's experts judge, for example, what they need, Greece, Romania. We don't have to buy the same aircraft all the time, one ship, the other... Far be it from me that there is not enough weapons in Europe right now. On the contrary, there must be more than we need. I don't underestimate NATO at all. The biggest exercises are held in Bulgaria. Now in July, I think it was NATO's largest European exercise in Bulgaria. So we train, we synchronize, we do, but these are huge finances that swallow the militarization of states. You remember, back in the day, how happy we were when the disarmament processes started, because that's when the money went into social systems. Now we are talking about billions that only Bulgaria has to set aside, and consider it against the backdrop of Europe what money will go for arms. And if there is such a global war in Europe, we for Finland, for Austria, for those who are not NATO members, will we care, or will we not? Because they're not NATO members. So this isn't even about making decisions or putting something on the agenda. I am convinced that one day, God forbid there is such a threat, but if there is a threat that will happen, because we will all unite and we will begin to look for the opportunities that there is at most one defense system. So it's not about an army, it's about defence, and this deeply echelonized defence from the Black Sea, from Turkey, even though here Turkey and I are in the same pact. We should be careful of Turkey and Greece at all. [[Replication from BSP for Bulgaria, from place: We know about Turkey and Greece in Cyprus.]] But in Cyprus, we also have the case back. That's what I said. This is neither protocol, I have expressed it to the Council as an idea to respond to me with no response.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u59	But that's what's gonna happen. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u60	Dear Mr. Vitanov, you have the floor for a line. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I understand this was just your view. I was under the impression that you spoke on behalf of a prime minister in a Member State of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u62	That's exactly what he's talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u63	But from your statements I can actually see that you are missing another very important opportunity for the Bulgarian military industrial complex, you mentioned, namely: this opportunity which reveals the newly established European Defence Fund, which has an annual budget of 5.5 billion. Euros. With the launch of this fund, several new security and defence projects are being created for the EU member states, and only in the direction of Development and Acquisition and the Union is envisaged to provide funding up to 500 million. EUR 2019 and 2020 and 1 billion EUR per year thereafter. Bulgaria's participation, I think, in these projects would be a breath of air for the Bulgarian military industry and would strongly help the projects announced by you earlier to modernise military factories, to repair military aircraft, to create a modern base for the construction of warships and so on. Therefore, it seems to me that instead of talking about the imaginary, imaginary European army, the Bulgarian government should focus on helping Bulgarian companies absorb funds from this fund, firstly, and secondly, to examine in detail the three proposed scenarios for development of European defence, to assess all the pros and cons on them and to come up with a position which of them corresponds most to the Bulgarian national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. Dear Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vitanov! First, this fund is now being formed. It hasn't been formed yet. Our military industry is currently gasping for orders and can't keep up. In addition, here is Mr. Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister, will tell you our doctrine, explicitly in the competitions we have recorded, will record and stand in the first place, among other things, the so-called industrial cooperation. Whether they are ships, if they are armored carriers, the tanks are very expensive, we are not talking about them, about 6 and 8 Kalesans, or planes, and therefore, you know about how much we have done so that the Russians can be repaired, on which life can be extended to 2027-2028 until a new plane is acquired and until it is introduced into armaments and then as couples can fly with them. We've put it all on the line, you can bet. You just like to get caught even a joke a person to say, then to it... Of course, in the talks with the Euro-president for Brexit, a special representative, only a few days ago we talked about the Bulgarian citizens in Britain, after me Barnier came here in Parliament, so you know very well, Mrs. Ninova, that we talked about this and put it as a major accent, as well as everything else. You shouldn't overdo it and play with every single subject. As far as food is concerned, I use the case to explain it to you, after all, the market determines it. We made the necessary people to know it and, of course, now everyone can choose and buy the better Bulgarian quality both for cheese and for milk and for everything else. Everything we need to do has been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u66	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] We should thank Prime Minister Boyko Borisov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. In connection with the previous inquiry to him, honourable Members, by letter No 754-00-70 of 7 July 2017, submitted at 11.13 p.m., a request was received for a debate on questioning and a draft for a questioning decision, No 754-05-21, dated 5 June 2017 by National Representative Cornelia Ninova to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, on a White Paper on the Development of Europe proposed by Mr Juncker President of the European Commission. The proposal for a debate on the questioning and the draft decision has been signed by 65 MPs, that is to say the requirement that more than 1/5 MPs make a proposal on the question of debate. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the inquiry and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting designated for parliamentary control. Dear colleagues, guests of the National Assembly today are young, political and civic leaders from Tunisia, Morocco, Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon and Bulgaria. [[Applause.]] From 3 to 9 July the young leader participated in the IVth International Summer Academy for Strengthening Democracy in the Euro-Mediterranean region, which is organized by the Bulgarian School of Politics. Let us welcome our guests to the Bulgarian Parliament, which we have already done. Procedure? Declaration? Here you are, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! Declaration on behalf of the political party GERB parliamentary group. I'm sorry that some people came out wanting to chase after the Prime Minister. If they were here, it would be more useful.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u68	Please, Mrs. Dukova!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u69	On behalf of the political party parliamentary group GERB, I would like to reaffirm once again the commitment of the party we took during the election campaign to create a single anti-corruption body. In recent days, we have seen a reversal in the position of BSP colleagues on this topic, who have adopted our idea and expressed their desire to support it. I recall, in the previous National Assembly, such a proposal was not supported by you, with a number of MPs from the Bulgarian Socialist Party publicly attacking the proposal, which was supported by the political party GERB group. Today, Socialist leader Kornelia Ninova expressed a completely different position from the position he had just a few months ago. By the way, this is also evident from the suggestion and from the anti-European talk just now, which she did with suggestion and manipulation. I recall that the leader of the Socialists expressed not only a radically different position, which was only a few months ago, but we accept this change as a recognition of our rightness. We also welcome President Radev's support, who also expressed his opinion in support of the creation of a single anti-corruption body, and we hope that this support will continue in the coming months when the Council of Ministers will propose a bill on this topic. For us, the fight against corruption is not expressed in talking in TV studios and declaring pathetic speeches. We appreciate corruption on both high levels of power and low levels of administration as a huge challenge to society and the state. Therefore, in addition to proposing a Single Anti-Corruption Authority Act, we have already begun reform and electronization of the administration, which will largely destroy the prerequisites for corruption. Our understanding is that the fight against corruption and abuses must be a priority of both the three authorities of both the legislative and the executive and the judiciary. It should also be the priority of the presidential institution. We appreciate as a negative symptom, a symptom of insincereness, the suggestion of the leader of the BSP, Kornelia Ninova, from the last days, which calls the formation of the committee of inquiry, whose aim is to check facts and circumstances about the purchase of new aircraft for the Bulgarian army, war with the presidential institution. We are also concerned by President Radev's statement, which called the newly formed Commission a permanent tribunal. This casts a shadow on the work of the entire parliament and undermines the authority of the entire institution. We recall the Parliament is neither an investigative body nor can it issue sentences. However, Parliament is obliged to exercise control over the executive power, especially when it comes to making strategic decisions related to spending millions of levs on Bulgarian taxpayers. This is also one of the main processes and contributions that the National Assembly can make in the fight against corruption and the prevention of corruption practices. This belief is the basis of the decision to support the committee of inquiry proposed by BSP colleagues, which should consider the facts and circumstances of the work of the National Palace of Culture. We did not call this proposal a war of parliament, or the opposition to the NDK, or a war with the executive power. We supported it because we believe that Bulgarian citizens have the right to be informed correctly and in due time about the way their money has been spent. We believe that every politician, civil servant and head of a state institution should be personally responsible for its actions and be subject to control. Dear colleagues, we are not afraid to wage a war against corruption at all levels of power. In GERB we have never hidden behind bearing collective responsibility and have not allowed ourselves insincerity on this subject. This is also the main reason why we have won all the parliamentary, local and European elections over the last 10 years. This was the reason we won the last parliamentary elections. We call on our colleagues from BSP, apart from the idea of a single anti-corruption body, to adopt this approach of ours, and instead of hiding behind the emotional and pathetic speeches of their leader, to work effectively and purposefully in both committees of inquiry, so that at the end of their existence we can inform the Bulgarian society correctly about the facts and circumstances we have explored. We call on you to stop dragging the presidential institution into fictional wars and to take advantage of President Radev's lack of political experience in order to use it for the purposes of your opposition activity. This is of no use to anyone except those who are afraid of the effective fight against corruption and work against the stability of the Bulgarian state. The sympathy for the Prime Minister cannot be expressed only by a strange, fragile but rude argumentation. I hope we will work together because, just as the Prime Minister worked on Brexit for the Bulgarian diaspora abroad and has its successes, we will fight corruption together in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u70	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dukova. Declaration on behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria "The Chairman of the group National Representative Cornelia Ninova."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u71	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Fighting corruption first of all means obeying the law, introducing legality, controlling the enforcement of the law. That is why we do not accept the words spoken here and see contradiction. It is illegal to violate the Constitution of Bulgaria because with the Commission you have created, you do not control the executive power, but are trying to control the presidential one. It's a Constitution violation. [[GERB noise and lines]] It's not law, it's corruption, it's respect for the law. This one first. We do not involve the President in this war, but Mr. Borisov and Mr. Tsvetanov with the accusations of corruption on the high levels of power, suspicions of pressure from the President and so on. And please don't use the words you use the President. I have to say this for the second time in two days: this is not President Plevneliev. If you're used to using the president, say: ass to tie you up, ass to choose to pat him on the neck. That's another guy. The word "use" here is extremely inappropriate. President Radev has his own positions. And we know that you're in a lot of pain for his position as a single anti-corruption body. You answered him with this committee because it doesn't match your idea. [[GERB noise and lines]] And so is ours. We've seen your authority, one in favor of fighting corruption...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u72	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u73	...in the previous parliament and why didn't we support it? Because it was a collection of so far active bodies that did nothing to combat corruption. How are you going to put together 10 organs that haven't done anything for many years, and you expect them to do something new now?! First this. What is this body that will look at anonymous signals and use it for political repression? What is this independent body that will elect him and appoint him politicians? We have no change in our position. We want a single body to fight corruption. But not the one you are planning, appointed by the Council of Ministers, that is, by the prime minister dealing with anonymous signals and involving people who have not yet fought any corruption. Come on, please, enough with the empty slogans! If we really have the common will to deal with this problem, let's really solve it. Instead of saying in your declaration today: we propose first, second, third, we change the NK like this, the NKK so, we build 10 prisons, we put criminals in prisons, you talk again about wars with the presidential institution. Is this your fight against corruption? Where's your specific? How many years have you run this country? How much?! Three terms! Unfinished, of course! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] What have you done on this issue? The fight against corruption? Ask the people on the street, do they have a feeling you've beaten her? Either we really want to do this job, or this is the way the vineyard, and with a war against the presidential institution, it's not gonna happen! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u74	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. We are moving on to a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski on the implementation of the National Statistical Institute Project The issue is for Tomislav Donchev. Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! On May 31st of this year, at a press conference at the National Statistical Institute, the project was presented. The realization of the Centralized Administrative Information System.. A Single entry point........................... for the submission of annual financial statements and statistics in machine reading format and integration with the National Revenue Agency, the National Statistical Institute and the Registry Agency in the Commercial Register. Generally speaking, the project's aim, as presented, is to enable companies to submit all the necessary information to the NRA, NSI and the Registry Agency, including their annual financial statements, not as currently in the NRA and the Commercial Register, but only in one place. In practice, however, according to the current legal provision this is not possible because according to art. 38 of the Accounting Act, undertakings should publish annually not only the annual financial statement... respectively the consolidated financial statement, but also the annual reports under Chapter 7 of the Law adopted by the General Assembly of Partners or Shareholders, or by the relevant authority, by announcing the entry and presentation of a notice in the Commercial Register. In a nutshell, the system provides to ease the submission of annual financial statements only in one place at the National Statistical Institute, but the reports that the Single Entry Point System does not intend to cover remain. Accordingly, reducing the administrative burden will practically not happen. The question remains of how this process will be legally settled at all. In this regard, I ask you to answer us: are there any existing legal norms to determine how the same double submission of the same annual financial statements in different administrative units should be removed? Is there any possibility that the project could be implemented without legal provisions available to allow its use and therefore what has been done with it to remain unusable? On what basis was the dimensioning, the evaluation of the project, and why was the implementation of the project entrusted to the National Statistical Institute and not to the National Revenue Agency or to the Registry Agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u76	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev. Here you go, Mr. Donchev. Three minutes for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear gentlemen Danchev and Svilenski, if I have to give you a very brief answer, I would say that, like any project that provides for a redesign of the services, a change in legislation is also needed. It's not an exception, it's a practice. I give you an example regarding the current initiative to remove the criminal record. Eliminating the requirement to be granted by citizens must change about 40 laws. In this case, the Law on the Commercial Register, the Ordinance on the Law, the Law on Accounting, the Law on Corporate Income Tax, the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals should be amended. That's what the experts have identified at the moment. Even if you work at the level of specific texts, you will be ready by the end of this month. Why is the National Statistical Institute elected, this is not a political issue. This is the opinion of experts from all institutions involved in the project and have considered that it is most appropriate to do so. But a little more general picture and a little more information about the project. You know well that the priority of this government is to ease the administrative burden on citizens and businesses. This is done in several ways. As I commented, redesign of services, primary connectivity of registers with a view to ending the requirement of documents by citizens and businesses, as well as access to services by electronic means. Specifically, by Decision No 245 of the Council of Ministers of 5 April 2016, supplemented by two other decisions of the Council of Ministers, a roadmap for implementation of the Strategy for Development of Electronic Governance in the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted. This is the conceptual document that regulates everything that needs to be done. 31 priority projects in the field of electronic management are set out at Stage 1 of the roadmap, which should be financed by the Operational Programme. For projects included in Stage 1 of the Road map, responsible institutions, maximum project budgets are defined as a description of all activities to be carried out. One of these priority projects is the TSAIS mentioned by you, or a centralized administrative information system. The grant contract was concluded on 13 March this year and provides for the project to be implemented by the National Statistical Institute in partnership with the Registry Agency. The project budget is 594 thousand. 100 BGN, its scope is fully consistent with the priority activities provided for in the roadmap. This is a direct answer to the question on what basis the activities are based on, and the deadline for their implementation is 18 months. In order to shorten the short parliamentary time, the first activity of the quoted project is intended to carry out an analysis on the regulatory basis. It's already done. I am waiting for the experts to be ready by the end of July on the texts that I have quoted and after this process is completed, in coordination with the Ministry of Justice, we expect it to be a fact and to be on the attention of the National Assembly. Within the framework of another project from Stage 2 of the Road map, also funded by the Operational Programme, which is said to be the upgrade of the Trade Register for Integration with the Data Exchange Platform between the Commercial Registers in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. The line, Mr. Svilensky, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Donchev, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Donchev, I will not ask a question in the line, but I will give my opinion. We are witnessing another procedure or order, as you would like to call it, where perhaps some funds will be spent, about 600,000. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u80	Less.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u81	590 and something doesn't matter. However, it will become clear that after being spent, it will not be able to work precisely because of the need to change four laws and one regulation. At least that's what you've said so far and probably more. In other words, what requires you to take such procedures, to announce such orders, provided that the legislation has not changed? And aren't we going to witness another information system that's built, made, but can't work? And I give an example, for example, the system you talked about, the connection between the DMV and the notaries. Built six years ago, but to date,... and Prime Minister Borisov said his intention to relieve the citizens of this system does not work, this relationship does not work. In other words, when will the government begin to view this process of power management in scale, general, rather than as a donor or a source of any funds that must be spent in order to build up some parts of the system that they do not talk to each other that do not work, and after us, colleagues, or in the future to take action to align, replace or reconcile these systems so that citizens can be relieved? A reasonable question is asked: why does the National Statistical Institute become the originator and it announces this procedure, provided that the NSI works with summary information? The NSI does not process this information. Why should it be applied for in the trade registers and not submitted to the Registry Agency or the NRA? Why was the National Statistical Institute chosen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u82	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u83	Dear Mr. Svilenski, when we have a single point of entry, does it matter where the information is submitted in integrated registers mode? Does it really matter where it comes in when we have a single entry point?! You have a conceptual misunderstanding of how the process should run. If you imagine that the National Assembly can completely change the regulatory base, everything related to the electronicisation of processes and then start the technical work on integration of registers, perhaps this whole process would take six years, which no one is going to wait for, can't happen like this. The processes must go forward both in terms of building the necessary software and in terms of ensuring primary access to the registers and in terms of redesign of the services, dropping those requests specifically for documents and permits that are not necessary, in parallel with changing the regulatory base. This should run parallel, because not 40, not 50, probably hundreds are the laws that need to be changed. Moreover, this cannot happen at one stage, because we are talking about tens and hundreds of services. This will be staged, but the assumption that, first of all, let's change all the laws, then ensure electronic and technical connectivity is an incorrect approach, must go simultaneously, as is happening. [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We thank Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are continuing with questions to Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence. The first question by the MP Slavcho Velkov about unconventional weaponry. Here you are, Mr. Velkov, to develop your question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, if you'll allow me to address you so. 18 days ago, on June 20, 2017 on national air, your colleague, Deputy Prime Minister, said that he was able to strike 200,000 people at the same time and is located only on two SUVs. His words show that it is an unconventionally deadly weapon of mass destruction, possibly with laser or electronic shock force. I admit that I was surprised by such a statement and realized how old I am and how much I do not know about the armament of our army, given that we are talking about conventions that prohibit such weapons and because of the numerous questions of voters and the increased public interest, please answer the following question of an actual nature: is it in the Bulgarian Army or the Ministry of Interior mobile weapons system of non-conventional type of mass destruction and is it located along the Bulgarian-Turkish border? Eventually, to achieve what goals is used? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Karakachanov. You have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u87	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Velkov, you have not aged, and as you are known to be a good security expert, you have not aged as information. In order not to go into details, I will respond to you in substance briefly and clearly: as a member of NATO, Bulgaria, in particular the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Interior, there is no available mobile weapons system of non-conventional type of mass destruction, there is no provision for delivery of such, therefore, in the absence of such a system, there is no way for it to be located at any border. For the specific question, as you are asking about the Bulgarian-Turkish answer specifically to the question, there is no one located as there is no such in the Bulgarian Army. I thought I was being brief and clear. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Velkov, for a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u89	Dear Minister, with satisfaction and disappointment I accept your answer. With satisfaction that we have not broken any conventions and that we do not have such a weapons system. I'm a little disappointed because I was always hoping that we could save a huge amount of money to buy two more of these jeeps and not to modernize land troops. [[Laughter]] Now, quite seriously, I don't ask the question for purpose and purpose. I'll read something the dear Mrs. Dukova read at exactly 11:45 p.m. Each politician should be personally responsible for his actions. This is from the declaration of the Political Party GERB. I therefore allow myself to recommend to you, if you can, of course, and you can pass it on to your colleague, everyone to be responsible and to speak what is in the areas of his responsibility and authority. Those who have responsibilities in tourism and other policies should not be ruled on these issues, as they scare, but the Minister of Defence and Deputy Prime Minister of the Offices, the Ministry of Interior, respectively, could, and that is why I am asking you. Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. A hole, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? No. [[National Representative Julian Angelov wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Madam President, I appeal to you as part of the National Assembly's leadership, not to allow such questions to be asked, which make the National Assembly a laughing stock. This is what someone said, someone said, someone was joking and so on, such a question is unacceptable and makes the National Assembly a laughing stock. Do not allow such questions to be asked to the ministers and deputy prime ministers. This is simply unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u92	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u93	Thank you, Madam President. I cannot accept your colleague's remark to give you such instructions. Very good. [[Replications by National Representative Julian Angelov]] The management of the National Assembly shall assess which issues and how to allow them. [[Relations from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]] It's just the way it is. When a deputy prime minister says some things, he should be responsible for what he says and the place is precisely for the Bulgarian Parliament to receive these answers. You have very rightly admitted the question and it received a very adequate answer from Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u94	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. That's why I let the question go, and we listened to the answer. I think the answer was adequate. [[The National Representative Slavcho Velkov wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] I'm not gonna give any more in the way of holding there was on one side and on the other. Thank you. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u95	Please, just 30 seconds. Here you go. 30 seconds, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u97	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u98	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u99	Thank you for giving me a chance. I would like to inform my colleague that my question has been admitted by letter from Mr. Glauchev, as far as I know the President of the National Assembly, on the grounds of art. 90, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 95, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I want to thank the Minister one more time, because he found out from half a step away what it was about. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u100	Thirty seconds, Mr. Velkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u101	The idea is not to talk nonsense on the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u102	Thank you. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Spas Panchev on the salaries of soldiers and involved in security at the Bulgarian border. Mr. Panchev, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, honourable ministers! We understand that there is no unconventional weapon at the border, but there are Bulgarian soldiers there. Due to the increased migration pressure last year a decision was made, parliament voted to change the Armed Forces Act, allowing Bulgarian soldiers to participate in security at the Bulgarian border. The implementation of this change is entrusted by an act of the Council of Ministers, which determines financial and resource needs, needs for implementation. Bulgarian servicemen have been involved in security for two years now. For this time it was necessary to pay salaries and cost of equipment. My question, Minister, to you is: how much has this money been reimbursed to the Ministry of Defence as spending outside the 2016 budget and whether there is still money that has not been reimbursed to the Ministry of Defence? Last year there was information that the costs were at the expense of Land Forces. Please, for more information on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u104	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u105	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Panchev, in response to your question, I inform you of the following: the additional wages paid to the Bulgarian Army troops by 30 June 2017 amount to 5 million. $570,000. BGN, including 2 million. $120,000. lv. Insurance contributions were not reimbursed to the Ministry of Defence's budget. The expenses incurred by the Ministry of Defence can be divided conditionally into two periods. I use the opportunity to inform you further. The first period is the period from 24 April 2015 to 30 September 2016. Logistical security, assistance to the Ministry of Interior's border guards. For this period, funds have been spent for additional awards of 2 million. Three hundred and eighty thousand. BGN, of which 834 thousand for insurance contributions. Second period from 1 October 2016 until now, i.e. by the end of June for border guards and logistics insurance under the Project "Hoome 2016".. support the efforts of the Republic of Bulgaria to deal with migration pressure at the external borders. On this project, the Ministry of Defence provides only travel funds without additional remuneration. The cost of additional wages spent on servicemen from 1 October 2016 to 30 June 2017 amounted to 3 million. 197 thousand. BGN, of which 1 million 286 thousand. lv. for insurance contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Mr. Panchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u107	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I allowed myself this question because I know the state of the funds in the Ministry of Defence for the support of the Bulgarian Army. They are, unfortunately, insufficient and this is one of the reasons why there is a failure, to have insufficient salaries as a size corresponding to the time in which we live, and I know that for you every lev is important and our concern is precisely in this spirit to help with what we can as a parliament, so that you can also receive what should be translated in due time and to strive for the Ministry of Defense to receive a correct budget for the support of the servicemen for the preparation and modernisation of the Bulgarian army. Your answer was comprehensive, but in order to introduce our colleagues, I ask you to say a few words...................... whether the activities that the Bulgarian servicemen perform at the border help with something of their combat training or have a negative impact? How do Bulgarian servicemen perform their tasks? I would like to say from this tribune that my assessment of the Bulgarian servicemen who participate in the various missions in the world and in Bulgaria is carried out at a very high professional level and our servicemen deserve our gratitude for that, although not enough as a number, they protect our country and we feel safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u109	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Panchev, thank you for the fact that Parliament will support the efforts of the Ministry of Defence. I rely on both the Defence Committee, which you are a member of and the entire Bulgarian Parliament on the topic of Bulgarian army, national security, all of us, whether we are now ruling or opposition to have an opinion that will be useful for the security of the Republic of Bulgaria. Regarding your question. The participation of Bulgarian security servicemen at the Bulgarian border, although there was a debate in the previous parliament on whether this should be done was ensured by a change in the Defence and Armed Forces Act. The impression that not only I have gained, but also everyone who has taken an interest is that the Bulgarian serviceman, who is on the border is not only conscientiously fulfilling his duties, but also the effect of their presence at the border is extremely useful. Adding that during their presence at the border it can be said that this is not an ordinary presence, an ordinary security guard, the Special Forces brigade, in practice their presence at the border with the operations they have carried out, also leads to additional skills which they accumulate as a battle experience in real conditions under which they must act. My belief is that the army should strengthen its presence on the border even more seriously for two reasons, first of all, it is a build-up of real preparation. Secondly, it would release one resource from the Ministry of Interior. I am talking about a human resource that can return to the areas from which it is posted to take on the other important objective that the government has set itself. More than a month ago, I have ordered a project to be prepared, which will introduce colleagues from the Defence Committee, including you, to what we plan to deploy as a number of our army, with what functions exactly, how things should happen. I say again: this will lead to the accumulation of real experience of our servicemen and will also provide resources needed by the Ministry of Interior to deal with domestic crime. With regard to each lev is important, I absolutely agree. I have said it publicly, I use the highest tribune in the Republic of Bulgaria, namely the parliamentary one, to thank all the Bulgarian soldiers I look at on joint exercises, although when they see their colleagues from abroad they have lower payments, with older buses moving and so on, our servicemen are well prepared, they are presented with dignity. I can say that the spirit of these young men, which I have observed in the teachings, is high, and they honorably represent Bulgaria where it is necessary. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We move on to the third issue by the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov about the financial and personnel state of the Military Academy of Rakovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the Military Academy is the oldest military school in Bulgaria, which has an important and responsible mission to train and educate leaders and experts in the field of defence and security. Highly prepared academic staff, modern infrastructure and training technologies are needed to conduct a quality learning process. All of us are well aware that the funds in the Ministry of Defence are short. This problem stands before the military schools, respectively and before the Military Academy. This requires a clear vision of the Academy's development, a sensible and feasible goal, in line with the available financial resources. In early 2016 a project was launched with a decision of the Academic Council to improve the energy efficiency of the study corps. This corps was built in 1892 and was renovated in 1930. Currently the third floor of the building is uninhabited due to leaks from the roof and, if it is not urgently repaired, the damage of the hull will continue. The project for this renovation is funded by the National Trusted Ecofund, which participates with 85% and 15% has co-financing at the Military Academy. The total cost of the project is 1.5 million. BGN, and the Academy must provide 225 thousand. In 2016, the Military Academy received from the Ministry of Finance an additional subsidy of 400 thousand. lv. The Academy ended the year with a transitional remainder of about 800 thousand. BGN, which has been transferred to 2017 The fact that we are already in the second half of the year has not yet started is perplexing. The other important element is the teaching staff. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In 2016 the Academy passed on a new schedule...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u112	Ask yourself a question, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u113	...in order to reduce the percentage of administrative staff. In 2017, an official timetable was changed again by the new head of the Academy. In this regard, I would like to ask: what is the financial situation of the Military Academy "Georgi Stojkov Rakovski" on 30 June 2017? At what level has the project reached to improve the energy efficiency of the study corps and what are the results of the career policy of the new head of the Academy?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u115	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, in answer to your question, I will inform you of the following. As of 30 June 2017, the total transfers transferred to an account of the Military Academy were worth 3 million. 392 thousand. 311 BGN, with which salaries, social insurance and taxes are paid. The current maintenance costs of the Academy for the period 1 January 2017 to 30 June 2017 totalled 630 thousand. £84. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 30 June 2017 was paid compensation to the servicemen of 116 thousand. BGN 293. and civil servants, in the amount of 89 thousand. BGN 538. The amount voted by the State Budget Act of 6 million. 868 thousand. lv. Provides payment of salaries and insurance only on the list of Military Academy members "Georgi Rakovski". All expenses for ongoing maintenance and compensation are paid from the Academy's own funds. In March 2017, an audit was carried out by the Internal Audit Office of the Ministry of Defence for 2016 with the conclusions that the activities carried out in the Military Academy were effective, efficient and no financial violations were detected. With regard to point two of your question, at what level has the project reached to increase the energy efficiency of the training corps of the Military Academy, I inform you. Decision No 1301 of 21 September 2016 announced a contract with the subject of a contract for construction and construction works.The project "Increasing energy efficiency of the study corps in the Military Academy "Georgi Rakovski" with an estimated value of 1 million. 202,000. lv. £610. without VAT. 14 participants took part in the procedure. By Decision No 13-3 of 28 December 2016, the same was terminated as none of the tenders received meets the conditions and requirements previously announced by the contracting authority for preparing a price or technical proposal for the performance of the subject-matter of the contract. The termination procedure has not been appealed to the Commission for Protection of Competition. You are aware that 85% of the project's funding should have been provided by the National Trust Ecofund and the remaining 15% by the Military Academy. By letter No 072 of 2 February 2017, the Director of the Executive Board of the National Trusty Ecofund informed the Chief of the Military Academy that, at its meeting on 24 January 2017, the Governing Council of the Ecofonda had decided to temporarily postpone the implementation of the projects under which the tender procedures were terminated without having been selected. For this reason, the project was not financed for 2017 and its activities were partially discontinued. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The 15% mentioned for project financing has not been spent and are at the expense of the Military Academy. I'm sorry there wasn't enough time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Tsonkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response, but I think you may have been misled by some of the information. I'm not satisfied with the answer, and I'll tell you why. In 2016, as I said, there has been a change in the establishment plan aimed at reducing administrative staff. At the same time, in 2017, Major General Grudi Angelov made a new establishment plan to increase the administrative composition. At the same time we have a large discharge of administrative and teaching staff from the Military Academy, especially from the administrative staff and in its place, let me put it this way: they have been appointed close to the head of relatives or acquaintances and are arranged for work at the Military Academy. With great respect to you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I believe that both you and I want the Military Academy, as well as other high-level military schools, to have a high rating. In this sense, they should train highly prepared leaders for the Bulgarian Army. I suggest you order an in-depth inspection of what is happening at the Military Academy of the Inspectorate, and the Court of Auditors may check and determine what is the financial situation at the time of the Military Academy. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The aim is to achieve a good image of the Military Academy and not allow irregularities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u118	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u119	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, the time has not come to complete what was about this particular part of your question. I think I've been able to answer the first two questions in the general question you're asking. But let me assure you that someone is probably fooling you. The problems that you are talking about, most of all, I am talking about in a frame of mind, do not exist. General Grudi Angelov is a respected Bulgarian general, not only as military but also as head of the Military Academy and this is the opinion of the military leadership. I'm not involving the political leadership of the Ministry here. If you have any concerns, it's not a problem for me, please come to the Department of Defense, we'll talk about it personally. Persons who can and are competent to answer these questions will answer. I want to dispel a doubt that most likely someone not in the most conscientious way tried to instill in you. I am open to these talks because the prestige of the Military Academy is really important for the authority of the entire institution not only of the Military Academy but also of the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u120	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to questions to the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva. The first question is from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Nikolay Boshkilov regarding the opening of a new Border checkpoint Strumyani (Strumyani) Berovo (Klepalo). Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u121	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! On 16 June 1999, an Agreement was signed between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia to open two new border crossing points linking Simitli and Pechchevo municipalities; Strumyani and Berovo, and entered into force on 13 September 1999. Later, in 2004, an agreement was signed to open a third point to connect the municipalities of Nevelino and Delchevo. It was approved by the government in July 2005. All three points so far have not been found. Over the years, various joint efforts have been made to implement these agreements, with words and promises being much more than deeds, and the subject being raised without effect in every government and every parliament. This can be seen from the transcripts accordingly. The nearest to realization was the project "Strumyani "Berovo " with approved funding under the PHARE Programme, but the necessary infrastructure from the Bulgarian country was not built due to the bankruptcy of the winning company tender. However, all facilities, including buildings and the Border Crossing Point, are built on this point from the Macedonian side. In this regard, Deputy Prime Minister, we would like to ask you: does the Bulgarian government intend to carry out the necessary actions as a priority for the recent opening of a new border crossing between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia on the territory of neighbouring municipalities of Strumyani from Bulgarian and Berovo from Macedonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Boshkov. For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs Mrs Ekaterina Zaharieva. Here you are, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Boshkov! You are absolutely right, indeed, in 1999 under the first agreement. The Agreement, which includes an Agreement for the opening of two new international border crossing points connecting the municipalities of Simitli.. Pechchevo and Strumyani. Berovo, which is in force at the present time, unfortunately, these points have not yet been opened. 165 kilometers away, if I'm not mistaken, is the length of our border, we only have three checkpoints. We don't have a railroad yet, we don't have a highway. This was precisely one of the main issues discussed during the visit of Prime Minister Zaev, who was here with his transport minister. On our part, there was a meeting with the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Moskovski, and it was common understanding that we should look for common sources of funding. As a priority is, of course, Corridor No. 8, which is already being built on the Bulgarian side. We agreed to seek a common source of funding for the overall construction of Corridor No 8 and to put this issue before the European institutions together, such as the European Investment Bank, as part of the sources of funding. Unfortunately, as you have said, due to some historical circumstances, despite the so expressed desire of both countries, there is not much progress in connectivity. The truth is that one of the main prerequisites for good neighbourly relations is exactly the connectivity between people and I will give a few figures. The growth of tourists from Macedonia last year is 10.5%, over 580 thousand tourists, if I am not mistaken, visiting Bulgaria. Bulgarian tourists are about 200,000 less. Unfortunately, trade between the two countries last year has a slight decline, about 2%, but exports have growth. So I, as foreign minister, am making and I will continue to make efforts high in the focus of our attention. I am glad that both the Minister of Transport and Prime Minister Borisov also made a commitment to Prime Minister Zaev. It is high time that at least this point, from which they remain for construction by a Bulgarian country about 30 km, to find its realization. The truth is, this 30 km will take a few years, but we still have to start building it. You yourself mentioned that this contract was concluded in 2005. Unfortunately, then the money under the PHARE programme was lost by the then government and it was thus not realized. In fact, a contract concluded in 2005 failed to be implemented by 2007, when it had to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u124	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go, Mr. Boshkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u125	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I see that you have done an analysis of the economic effects that will lead to the opening of this point, but somehow you have assured me that in some foreseeable future without any specifics you will do the appropriate measures for its discovery.. something that your predecessor Minister Mitov has also done. I'm looking at the transcript. His words are also beautiful, wishful thinking. I would like to ask you to engage in some specific deadline, as the people of Strumiani municipality, this is the municipality, perhaps with one of the highest unemployed in the region, very much rely on this point and are currently following this issue. So I'm asking you to commit to some more specific deadlines so that people can calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Boshkov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister? You don't have an ass. We continue with the next question by the National Representative Miglena Doykova Alexandrova about Bulgaria's specific requests to change the Dublin regulation. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, the Dublin regulation was adopted when the international situation was very different from today. The regulation does not work and damages our country, which is an external border of the European Union, so it must change. It has become a burden for Bulgaria because together with Greece and Italy we are under the greatest migratory pressure. However, we continue to be a guarantor of European security, guarding our border and not allowing a stream of illegal migrants. But changes must occur in order not to harm Bulgaria. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what changes in the Dublin regulation will Bulgaria insist on? Do we want the refugee quotas dropped in our country?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u128	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Alexandrova! The Dublin reform should be complemented by a package of measures that have been discussed for about a year at different councils, including the Foreign Policy Council, as a complementary Council on the Justice and Home Affairs Council. Bulgaria has a consistent and very clear position to change the Regulation. I fully agree with you that it does not meet the current conditions and requirements and damages the countries, including Bulgaria, which are on the first line or are an external border of the European Union, at all the first country to receive and grant refugee status. Bulgaria has always expressed the way in which the common asylum policy should be terminated, you know that a package of measures is being discussed, not only a change of the Dublin regulation, but the following position: Firstly, support for the most affected Member States, effective return policy, readmission, prevention of secondary movements and so on. For Bulgaria, as a Member State on the front line, the reform is a very important position. The main objective of this reform should be to establish a system that ensures a balance between the principles of responsibility and solidarity between all countries. That is, the burden cannot be borne only by countries which are the first point of access and the granting of refugee status. Bulgaria opposes the permanent responsibility of the countries, insists on providing for its termination for the Member States which have lawfully and in good faith carried out the return of illegal immigrants. There was an opportunity for Prime Minister Borisov to answer your second question this morning. The position, unfortunately, is still among the different groups of countries, that everyone has to take responsibility. I would say that it is far from reaching a common agreement, but still Bulgaria and the other countries have made quite a lot of progress: first of all the financial assistance, of the second human factor; in terms of concrete steps to alleviate countries, even before it comes to full agreement. I assure you, we will continue to insist and I think that, with the exception of few Member States of the European Union, much of them are understanding and supporting our position. I hope that the Bulgarian Parliament will also support the consistent efforts of the previous and current government, including a number of ministers who are discussing the change in the European Union's Common Asylum Policy in the Council, which includes the Dublin Regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u130	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm pleased with your answer. I hope you continue to insist on the things that are important, especially for Bulgaria. Accordingly, you can tell me the next time we see each other here, any deadlines within which a result would be achieved with regard to our requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u132	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Would you like a hole, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister? No. Third issue by the MP Ivo Hristov on a good neighbourly agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia, which is preparing for signature on 2 August 2017. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, to develop your question within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u133	Mrs. President, honourable Members, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! On an official visit of the Macedonian Prime Minister in Bulgaria it was announced that on 2 August 2017 the prime ministers of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia will sign a Neighborhood Treaty. I recall that the government of Philip Dimitrov on 15 January 1992 recognised the independence of four Balkan countries, one of which was Macedonia. In a joint Declaration by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Ivan Kostov and the President of the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, then Ljubcho Georgievski, the 1992 decision for recognition of Macedonia's independence was reaffirmed on 22 February 1999. However, there is no text in it for recognition of Macedonian or Macedonian nation. The joint declaration of 1999 was reaffirmed by a joint Memorandum, as you know, signed by the Republic of Bulgaria and Macedonia in Sofia on 22 January 2008. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I realize that diplomacy is an art of opportunity and, as always, compromises and mutual concessions should be made on both sides. But compromises and mutual concessions cannot be at the expense of fundamental national interests. In this sense, there are certain demarcation lines which cannot be crossed under any circumstances and under any conditions. Obstruction means national betrayal. Madam Minister, I insist that you answer me: in the Treaty of Good Neighborhood, which the two prime ministers are about to sign on 2 August, will these two fundamental principles of language and nationality be left behind? How will the term common history be defined as a common history of one nation or as a common history of two separate peoples? Do you realize the nuances in the concepts of the official language and the Macedonian language? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Hristov! You had the opportunity in the Committee on Foreign Policy at the National Assembly to get acquainted with the draft Treaty and with the efforts of a number of Bulgarian governments, starting specifically on the draft Treaty on Friendship and Good Neighborhood of 2008. Eleven rounds of negotiations so far. As is right, you have really well described the chronology of recognition, and then of compromise, even then made the year 1999, by the Bulgarian state, signing and understanding in this way. I will read exactly the text of the 1999 Declaration between the two prime ministers. Such a text exists in dozens of contracts signed since 1995, as a matter of fact, before the Declaration. The biggest Memorandum of European and Euro-Atlantic Integration since 2008, which you also mention in your exhibition. It is no coincidence that I say that even then a compromise has been made, as you say the policy is an art of compromises by the Republic of Bulgaria, and in no case is the text of the draft Agreement on Friendship and Good Neighborhood or other agreements signed over the years by a number of governments, more than this compromise is not legal because it has already been made. The text is as follows: It was signed in Sofia on 22.02.1999 in two original copies, each one of which is in the official languages of the two countries: Bulgarian under the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and Macedonian under the Constitution of the Republic of Macedonia, and the two texts have the same power. Certainly, if we succeed, I hope in the final round of negotiations that we will reach final agreement on the draft Agreement, Bulgaria has absolutely nowhere more to compromise on the compromise that was made in 1999 with this text. The text regarding the common history has been presented to you and this is one of the other red lines. The third, of course, is another text from the 1999 Declaration of Abstinence. And nothing in the Constitution of the Republic of Macedonia can be used for its claims on minorities, such as it has, you know, in the Republic of Bulgaria and protection of rights that are not its citizens. I have nothing more to say about this. A number of governments, I repeat, have worked. It is very important not only the actual signature, which is undoubtedly extremely important because it is a sign whether they really want to change their attitude. Signing itself is a sign. But also the visit of Prime Minister Zaev here, his consent for the first time in the new history to honor the memory of King Samuel in Sofia, on his monument, his invitation to Prime Minister Borisov to celebrate together the Ilinden-Preobrasian uprising, these are still the first steps. Of course, they need much more from them, for example, I will point out the suspension of actions by the institutions there, which undermine the reputation of the Republic of Bulgaria in international institutions. You are aware of the cases that OMO "Ilinden" and others against Bulgaria in order to recognise minorities. So these are conditions that we also set, and in no case will we stop just by signing the Treaty, God forbid it happens on the 2nd. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u136	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Christov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u137	Madam President, colleagues, dear Mrs. Zaharieva! It really is. The question I asked should have been answered last Friday and, meanwhile, a meeting of the Foreign Commission was held where we were familiar with the draft Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia. Those red lines were actually indicated there. And during the Foreign Commission meeting, and then in a private conversation, I pointed out three important points for which, in my opinion, the Bulgarian side should not compromise under any conditions. First of all, there's no rush. I do not see any circumstances or factors requiring us to hurry with this. The sacral date of August 2nd, I hope there will be August 2nd and next year. Secondly, this should not really be at the expense of the Bulgarian national interests. They go through protection of the Bulgarian cultural and historical heritage in the Republic of Macedonia, which is insolently ignored, disrespected and directly destroyed. Everyone who's been there knows what it's about. Secondly, the whole project for the creation of a Macedonian nation and Macedonian language, and a Macedonian independent state after 1945 with the creation of the so-called People's Republic of Macedonia and then the creation of the Republic of Macedonia after the collapse of Yugoslavia, was built entirely on an anti-Bulgarian basis. When you remove the anti-Bulgarian base, this whole creation is broken down by definition. Therefore, in order for this country to exist, it must necessarily be brought out on an anti-Bulgarian basis. In this sense, their position is logical, but ours is not. Third, a very important thing. We have had the opportunity to clarify this issue with you.. the text that was provided for in the Draft Treaty regarding the non-compliance of any claims on the part of the Macedonian side, especially based on their Constitution. You know what this is about. The problem at first glance is a problem of international public law, really is a political problem. It's about art. 49, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Macedonia, clearly stating that the Macedonian state is obliged to protect the interests of its minorities outside the borders of the Republic of Macedonia at the moment. We cannot, with an international treaty, which we will sign, God forbid a member of the Macedonian Constitution. This is a matter of national sovereignty and of the first two issues of international public law at each university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u139	Dear Mr. Hristov, with much of the things you said, I agree, except for two. First of all, it's not rushing or rushing. It is no accident that I began that if, since 2008, eleven rounds of negotiations going through different stages are in a hurry, I do not see if now, at this opportunity, with this goodwill from the Republic of Macedonia and the new government, we do not sign this treaty when we will ever sign it. Since 1999, the first talks began shortly thereafter. As of 2008, they began, during the time of Minister Kalfin, intensive negotiations. Of course, when intense, when not so much and, again, I say, not our fault, but... Rather, you are absolutely right about the anti-Bulgarian policy of the previous government of the Republic of Macedonia. That's how it is -- 1945 -- we all know the story, it's the basis of Macedonianism, and it's anti-Bulgarian. But it is now 2017 and I hope the Macedonian political class will mature for having a country does not mean that it is a country with, by the way, several peoples in it. It's also in accordance with their Constitution. It doesn't mean that we need the only link for the state, even more so when it is recognized as you said, we are the first country to recognise them January 1992. It does not mean that we should continue with this ideology. The national interest of the Republic of Bulgaria really requires improvement of relations. You are right that the contract is one step and much more important are the actions, including the preservation of the Bulgarian historical and cultural heritage. The military graveyards, you know how difficult it is to get permissions from the Macedonian authorities if we want to put up a plate, or we want to renovate. These questions are raised and continued, so there is no rush at all. This is an opportunity Bulgaria should use. As far as I'm concerned, I'm just gonna say. The declaration and the temporary contract they have with Greece, even explicitly stated that it is derogated. We've been doing a lot of debating. Yeah, of course, we saw each other after that. Our specialists in international law, including myself, when we read, are very clear that this is possible to happen with the international treaty. Again, in the Greek text is even mentioned the Order of art. 49 of their Constitution. We rather say that this treaty and by signing this treaty, the Republic of Macedonia means that it is obliged not to make claims regarding their minority in Bulgaria. Actually, that's the point of this arrangement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u140	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Let us thank Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva for the participation of Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs. We move on to questions to the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. Question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev on the measures envisaged by the Ministry of Tourism to attract foreign tourists by the end of summer tourist season 2017 Here you are, Mr. Tishev, to develop your question within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u141	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mrs Angelkova! Despite the high expectations for the growth of tourists on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast for the season 2017, the tourist influx has turned out to be a mirage. As of mid-June this year the bed base on the Southern and Northern Black Sea coast is occupied at 20 The request of the Ministry of Tourism for the summer season was for a minimum of 10% increase in tourists. And just two days ago, you said that we expect there to be a 20% increase in tourists at sea this summer. It was officially announced January month by you that we are working for a 40% increase in Russian tourists. The increase of arrivals at Burgas airport was only 6.8%, compared to the same period of 2016. Russia's guests for the same period were 5.8% less, while Russian-speaking flyers arrived, i.e. Russia, Ukraine and Belarus, the decrease was over 6.6%. Apparently, the big wave of tourists we were expecting this summer passed us by. In this regard, my question to you is as follows: since it is clear that your forecasts and those of the Ministry you run do not come true, what measures have you taken so far, and what measures has the Ministry of Tourism envisaged by the end of the summer season to compensate for this delay? Do you have an action plan in that direction? Thank you. PRESENT TSveta KARAYANCHEVA: Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. For a response the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. Here you are, Minister. Three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tishev, I would like to assure you that the forecasts for the summer season 2017 and the reported visits of our country so far are realized according to the planned growths. Despite the record for tourism 2016, when we had 8 million. 200,000. foreign tourists who have visited our country, the Ministry of Tourism is tasked to work for sustainability of the upward trend and to upgrade the achieved results this year, and at this stage all the data the Ministry has is showing that for the second consecutive year we are looking at an extremely intense and successful summer season. According to data from the period 1 April, 25 June 2017, passengers arrived at the two airports Varna and Burgas were over 577 thousand, with the growth compared to the same period last year being 9.6%. The first official results available to the Ministry of Tourism are for the summer season 2017 wing and are also positive. In April, the total number of foreign tourists' visits to Bulgaria was over 496 thousand, with more than 10% growth compared to 2016, with significant growth from a number of important markets only this May. From Greece, over 93 thousand. Visits and growth of 9.6%, from Germany over 47 thousand. Visits and growth of 10,2%, from Ukraine over 40 thousand. Visits and growth of 11.3%, Italy over 13 thousand. Visits, growth of 14.4%, Poland growth of nearly 50.1%, nearly 11 thousand. Visits and so on. Based on the recorded growth in the wings of the season we expect a very good performance of our other leading markets, and according to data from..Fraport.............................. the total number of planned aircraft movements for the airports Varna and Burgas for the period June.................................................................. The forecast for the summer season of 2017 we form on data from airports about the number of planned flights, as well as information from the major tour operators about the bookings for holidays in Bulgaria. Despite the extremely good start of the current summer season, the Ministry of Tourism seeks to prepare realistic forecasts for the whole of this year, and at this stage our forecast is for growth between 7 and 10% compared to the record year 2016, with the forecast updated periodically on the basis of the newly received data. The past year was extremely successful in terms of the Russian market and the total number of visits of Russian tourists in Bulgaria was over 580 000, with a registered growth of almost 20% on an annual basis, which does not include Russian citizens with a second home in Bulgaria. We are convinced that this year we will confirm these results as at the moment, according to Maya Lomidse's data, Executive Director of ATOR (Russian Tour Operator Association), we have a 15% increase for Russian tourists, and according to RIA Novosti and according to the data they use, we have a 44% growth in demand for vacation from Russian citizens in Bulgaria. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I only have a few sentences to finish. Sorry. My team and I will actively work and continue to promote incoming tourism by continuing with a number of promotional activities in 2016 and not only organised exchanges, but also online advertising, journalistic expedition tours, various fairs to present Bulgaria's traditions and culture, so that we can confirm, confirm these results and make them a sustainable trend. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u143	Thank you, dear Minister. Come in for a line, Mr. Tishev. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u144	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, here I notice some gap in data, as you have just stated that according to data from the airports in Burgas and Varna for June we have an increase of 9.5%, while I will quote you two days ago: "We expect 20% more tourists this summer" said the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to BNT. The biggest growth is expected to mark the guests from Germany, the Czech Republic and Poland. Airports in Varna and Burgas take on an average 8% more passengers. Let's assume that 1-1.5% difference is not of that importance. If we have only 8% increase in tourists in June, this means that July and August must have more than 30% increase in order to keep the overall forecast of 20% increase in the summer season. Here I would like to point out the following: if the inflated forecasts can serve as a cheap PR of the Ministry of Tourism, this for the tourism industry creates a particular problem because, when a Bulgarian minister or representatives of the Ministry comes out and states a forecast for the tourism industry, this is the country that comes out and says: Yes, they employ more staff to serve this increase in tourist traffic, and when that increase does not happen, then they suffer losses. Who will cover these additional costs of the tourist industry......................................................................................................... It certainly won't be the Ministry of Tourism, and neither will you, Madam Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u145	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Madam Minister, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u146	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Tishev! First of all, I do not know where you are getting these figures from again, and since the current cabinet started working on May 4th and I personally as Minister of Tourism, that the growth we expect for the summer based on the extremely successful summer season we had last year is between 7 and 10%. It is similar at the moment, based on the data it has in the Ministry of Tourism, and I have announced that we are continuing to work actively so as to strengthen the positions of all the leading markets that it has. The data regarding the airports Varna and Burgas, which I reported, are for the period 1 April "June 25," as I informed you in the exhibition of my reply. I can assure you that the main task of the Ministry of Tourism is to turn this positive trend from last year into a sustainable trend with a continuous increase in tourist traffic towards Bulgaria from our target markets, as well as the development of other ones with all the advertising activities that the Ministry has launched so that it can promote the country and turn it into a year-round tourist destination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u147	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for the participation of Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova in today's parliamentary control. Next are questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov. The first question is from the MP Stoyan Mirchev about the status of the Tutrakan road. Here you are, Mr. Mirchev, two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u148	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister! In my admissions as MP in Silistra District, in particular in Tutrakan, came a number of citizens who complained about the condition of Tutrakan road. I don't know if you've seen it on the news a couple of times, what a difficult condition it's in and compared it to a lunar landscape. I have asked the question about a month ago, I hope that there has already been a development on the subject, as I know that there have been procedures, but still to ask the question: please inform me what the Ministry in charge of this year will do in 2017 so that it can improve the status of Tutrakan road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u149	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. For a response, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nikolay Nankov. Here you go for three minutes to develop the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u150	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Mirchev! It's not my fault you asked a question 30 days ago and I didn't answer. I'm here every Friday, shutting down the last one, but I just didn't have time for it. Quickly what my API colleagues have prepared for me, I'll give a little more details in the back. The movement from Kubrat to Tutrakan takes place along Republican road II-49 to the intersection with road II-21 Ruse and continues to the town of Tutrakan. The Kubrat division is 25.7 km long and passes through the territory of the two districts of Razgrad and Silistra. The length of the section on the territory of Razgrad district is 15.9 km and in Silistra district is 9.8 km. Road II-49 "Targovishte" "Razgrad " Kubrat "Tutrakan" is a main transport link for the region and that is why over the years API has included the segment of the second-class path in rehabilitation programmes. The division from the end of the town of Kubrat to the deviation for the village of Bisertsi on the left, with a length of 6.7 km. has been rehabilitated in 2011 under Operational Programme "Regional Development 2007 - 2013" "Dot 5" and is in a very good operational state. For two more sections of road II-49 there is an approved grant under the new Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014-2020." These are Lot 13 in the territory of Razgrad and Lot 14. Soon it began, two weeks ago Lot 13 and Lot 14 started on the territory of Silistra District. I mentioned Lot 13 has a contract, the construction and repair work are started respectively. Lot 14 includes the section of road II-49 The route passes through the regulation of a village of Staro village. There's a construction permit issued for the sites. The procedures for the implementation of construction and repair activities and supervision have been carried out. The procedure for the selection of a contractor for construction supervision has not been appealed, but for the selection of an IMP contractor is currently ongoing an appeal procedure before the Commission for Protection of Competition. The complaints were dismissed and the contracting authority's decision was confirmed, however, the decision of the KPC was appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court. Rehabilitation of the segment will begin after the final decision of the competent authorities. Rehabilitation of the section will provide a good and direct link in all directions both within and outside the territory of the country to the Danube Bridge and the town of Ruse. However, there remains one section of 9.1 km., which is in the worst condition, it is not included in the project under Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" it needs a major repair. For the implementation of the project it is necessary to update the available technical documentation. There's a technology project under way. The good news is, here already depends on the budget opportunities of this year, MRRB, respectively API Agency has prepared a draft decree of the Council of Ministers, if possible the road is included as a priority in the state budget. These 9.1 km, i.e. the entire section from Targovishte to Tutrakan, will be rehabilitated, whether by the Operational Programme, in growth, or by the state budget, respectively the API budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u151	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Mirchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You've been pretty thorough. There are a number of procedures that have been initiated. Some are in the process of execution, others are not, but the problem is great. As you said yourself, the road is a major road artery, it is important for the people of the region. After all, this is one of the poorest regions. We cannot burden people with different costs because of the lack of a quality path. It is important for me not to postpone once again this year, as the repair of this road is expected for a long time. In general, there are also alimony funds in the budget. I personally hope that the road will be rehabilitated in this year 2017, the problem will be solved. People are waiting for it, too. I will personally monitor the development on the subject, because I understand that responsibility can be transferred permanently, but people expect this time and I hope that you will follow and this procedure will be completed this very year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u153	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. For the coat, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mirchev, maybe I wasn't clear enough. I didn't transfer responsibility or... on the contrary, I didn't delay time. I, how can I say, a more positive, positive answer for a given area and for a given time so far in a parliamentary room I have not given, as I mentioned, we have a rehabilitated segment. We have a stretch, only on the territory of Razgrad district, between Targovishte and Razgrad, after the circle for Loznitsa, which rehabilitation is starting now. For the 15.9 km section, which is funded by Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" we expect to complete the appeal at the Supreme Administrative Court. If the contracting authority's decision is confirmed, we start, as they say, the next day. We have secured funding, we have secured project readiness. Resources, design readiness, only the nine-mile stretch remains, which is indeed in the worst condition. In this month, as you asked the question, by the way, it happened very little. There were respectively, I suppose the clues, on the territory of your constituency were prepared banquets, the shrub vegetation was cleaned, the preparation was made after the preparation of the technological project, which at the moment the colleagues from the "Rail Infrastructure" Agency are developing, to move on to current repairs in these 9 km 100 meters, which will remain the only ones with an uncertain European one, I mentioned where we have provided or will provide, respectively, funding for these 9 km and 100 meters. You're right, it exists in the API's budget. Unfortunately, this year's support is currently 24 million. BGN, which do not reach for only two of the tunnels of the highway of Hemus. I don't break the entire API budget this year, but I paid 80 million. lv. February and March, and April, respectively, for winter snow-cleaning contracts concluded on the basis of the budget for maintenance by the staff office for bridge facilities of the Motorway "Hemus" but, believe me, not just believe in your foster residents Kubrat and Tutrakan, this is rather in Razgrad region, in Tutrakan municipality, that the road will be rehabilitated and it will be basically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u155	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the second issue by the National Representative Anton Kutev and the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev on the construction of a second Danube bridge at Ruse and the opening of two land crossings. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u156	Dear Minister, only one clamp will open the accusation was not to you, but it is simply a road that has been delayed for years and there is a scary situation. It's really like a lunar landscape, otherwise it's about effort, I get it. Regarding the second issue, a meeting between Romania's Prime Minister Sorin Grindianu and Minister Zaharieva discussed the construction of a second Danube bridge at Ruse, as well as the launch of two new crossing points at the land border, which are ready. My question is: since 1996 there have been talks about the creation of Danube Bridge and Silistra. The current document for the two countries is a Memorandum of Understanding signed in 2014. According to this document, the two countries give priority to two bridges, with new transport links with Nikopol, the other with Silistra. From the point of view of the practical realization of the idea of new bridges, the most important and inaccessible moment is the signing of an agreement between the two countries. To this end, a serious documentation process must be carried out. In this regard, a Bulgarian-Romanian Working Group on Transport Infrastructure was established with the Memorandum. According to the Memorandum, the work on this group is with the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Regional Development. The realization of the idea has a single time.. a series of meetings of the working group in question, which I mentioned must have been created at which to clear all moments between the two countries. Another important thing for the creation of a bridge over the Danube River at Silistra is that the Bulgarian side does not appreciate the fact that such a bridge can actually make the port of Varna an important entry artery for Southeast Europe and for Central Europe. So far, only the Lesovo and Silistra connection is assessed as a transport corridor. In this regard, with the awareness of the need to strengthen infrastructure connectivity between the two countries and the projects for the construction of the Danube Bridge near Silistra, as the established checkpoint at Kainardzha Municipality, please answer: at what stage of implementation is the project for Danube Bridge Silistra and the launch of the checkpoint at Kainardzha? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u157	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. For your answer, Mr. Minister, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u158	Thank you, Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mirchev! Within the framework of the European Union Strategy for the Danube region, particular attention is paid to improving mobility and connectivity in the region. The development of transport infrastructure along Trans-European Transport Corridor No 7, namely the Danube River, is one of the objectives of the Danube Strategy, with concrete efforts aimed at improving sustainable modes of transport. Priority area #1 of the Action Plan for the implementation of the Strategy is defined as 'P' for mobility and intermodality. The construction of bridges over the Danube is among the main forms for achieving strategic objectives in this priority area. In this connection, between the governments of Bulgaria and Romania, as you mentioned, there is a signed Memorandum of Understanding on improving shipping in the common area of the Danube. One of the measures set out in this Memorandum is a study of the possibility of building new bridge links between Bulgaria and Romania. Within the framework of the SPATIAL project "Development of a common strategy for sustainable territorial development of the cross-border region of Romania-Bulgaria" financed by the Programme for cross-border cooperation Romania-Bulgaria 2007-2013, a first stage of a pre-project study was carried out, related to the selection of an optimal option for building a new bridge over the Danube river for each of the following locations: Oryahovo "Beckett; Turnu Mugurele "Nicopol; Gyurgivo "Ruse" (second bridge over Ruse), and Silistra "Kulrash." As a continuation of this first phase of the feasibility studies, in October 2014 between the governments of Bulgaria and Romania was signed a Memorandum of Understanding establishing a Bulgarian-Romanian Working Group on Transport Infrastructure. This group coordinates the activities of reviewing, updating and, where necessary, carrying out project studies, evaluating the necessary investments, as well as identifying sources of funding, on the construction of new bridge facilities over the Danube River at Silistra, Cullarash and Nikopol, Tournu Mugurele. A significant financial resource is needed for the construction of these facilities. The limited budget of the Cross-border Cooperation Programme "Interreg V-A Romania" "Bulgaria" does not allow funding of joint projects and activities related to the above-mentioned facilities. Their realization could be ensured after an in-depth economic analysis, reaching a consensus between Bulgaria and Romania to achieve complex efficiency, as sources of funding will be sought through cross-border programmes, as well as through a public-private partnership. With regard to the opening of new land border crossing points, we should note that the completion of road projects for the construction of Lipnitsa-Kainardja border crossing points and Dobromir-Krushari, financed again under the Romanian-Bulgaria Cross-border Cooperation Programme 2007-2013, has been postponed in relation to the need to finalise the respective co-ordination procedures by the Romanian side. We are ready with the construction projects, with the general planning plans for the respective sites, infrastructure, linearity is built, both border crossing points are built, I mentioned, and completed as early as 2014, but are not functioning due to a requirement for necessary changes, namely compliance with certain legal standards by the Romanian side. This is the second time I've stressed. The Monitoring Committee of the Programme adopted Decision No 98/02.02.2017 which, by 31 December 2018, by the end of next year, should provide evidence that the projects are operational, to demonstrate the sustainability of the projects, otherwise the funds paid for the projects should be reimbursed to the European Commission. On the Romanian side, we have the assurance that the local councils of Lipnitsa and Dobromir have adopted decisions to finalise the necessary procedural amendments in order to put border facilities into operation. Through joint efforts, good coordination and a desire for joint cooperation, we will achieve a successful completion of the projects for the construction of the two crossings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u159	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Mirchev for a line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u160	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. You've read most of the chronology. The chronology is really long, it starts as early as 1996. I understand that we need to assess the sustainability of the project, to do analyses, to find funding, I understand that for the border checkpoint on the Romanian side has been postponed its opening, but in the statement of the question I mentioned that there should already be a working group. It is precisely the task of such a working group between the two countries to solve these types of problems. That's why my question is.. because without starting work this working group, talking about the Danube Bridge and opening the checkpoint is just general talk. Therefore, I have specific, supplementary questions: is there a certain composition of the Bulgarian-Romanian Working Group on Transport Infrastructure? Are there rules drawn up for the work and schedule of the meeting of the working group? Are there any meetings of this working group at all? Does the MRDP consider the connection of the Silistra Bridge as a priority of the Culurash Bridge and the port of Varna? I'll tell you why this thing is very important to the region. Silistra is the district in Bulgaria where macroeconomic indicators are in the most difficult state in four years. The trends there are very negative: the demographic disaster is of huge proportions, unemployment is large, the lowest employment rate, the lowest gross domestic product, lack of public private investment and investors. All this leads to depopulation with two thousand people a day, and my question is very important for the bridge, because this bridge will be a breath of air for the economy and for the people there, because Silistra is transport isolated at the northernmost end of Bulgaria and this isolation hinders it, and creates huge imbalances between the territories for the whole country. I'm done. Therefore, Minister, please answer me the questions I have asked for this working group and, if so far there have not been meetings, my request is to speed up and finally start working this working group between the two countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u161	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Mr. Minister, for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u162	Mrs. Chairman, gentlemen of the House! If I'm not mistaking the procedure for the issue of a line, not for further questions, I think that's characteristic of asking, but that's by the way. I will answer, however, the further questions raised. Of course they're important, so I'll answer them. I'll start with the task force. Two weeks ago, we would have had a visit with President Radev, and we would have been part of a delegation, and together with the transport minister, precisely on these issues, but the government in Romania fell, that is, there was no one to meet, as they say. So you're right, the task force had to continue its work accordingly. The sustainability I mentioned concerned cross-border cooperation projects under the Bulgaria cross-border programme and the construction of the border crossings respectively. And you have correctly read and understood from the answer to the question that really the guilt in this case is not Bulgarian, as everything is organized, arranged, the crossing points for the construction of the crossing points are specified, and a question of forcing work on the part of the Romanian government is to complete the border crossing facilities themselves. Regarding Danube Bridge 3 it is a fact that several options have been considered and I have mentioned which options. They are considered at an intergovernmental level and are, of course, considered at an internal government level within several governments prior to this cabinet. The choice of where to be the third bridge is a second one in Ruse, whether in Nikopol, Turnu Mugurele, Oryahovo, Beckett or in Silistra, is a question once of an agreement by the Romanian side and, secondly, the existence of adequate financial and economic justification for the region, of course. To be honest, you were wrong about giving information about the socio-economic characteristics of the districts in Bulgaria, but Silistra does not fall behind to the extent that.. and is not an indicator of demographic and socio-economic development, such as the district of Vidin, where it was well, by the way. The Danube Bridge is almost identical, but Vidin District, unfortunately, is the most backward area. Unfortunately, colleague Popov left, but you can see what happened to Danube Bridge 2 - built precisely between Vidin and Calafat. In other words, the construction of a bridge facility over the Danube does not solve the problem of socio-economic development unless adequate xinterland is ensured to call it a bit more general, or a little less general, adequate connectivity of the bridge with the rest of the Republican road network. So what is Danube Bridge 2 at Vidin? [[the President signals that time has run out]] , without what was built on both sides of the border not only from Bulgarian but also from Romanian, on a minimum speed road so that it can really exploit its economic and social potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u163	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov about the financial situation of the Water and Water. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, a long-awaited question. The topic I am going to develop today, I suppose, concerns not only the Noisy Water, but also the Water in other parts of the country where there are consolidated Water Associations. Most of all, we are interested in a topic, which in recent months the citizens of Shumen district are interested in and concerning the financial situation of the water water water water supply. You know and are aware that only a week ago there was a session of the Municipal Council in Shumen, where a future meeting of the Association on Water and Water in Shumen was postponed, as the main issue, the main problem is the business plan of the water company. And one of the most important elements of it is the offered price of water is 3.26 BGN, such a price as there is nowhere in Bulgaria and is not expected to be. [[Reply.]] My colleagues are apostrobbing me for Dobrich, but there's a completely different situation. I would like here, from this tribune, you to introduce us to the current situation and, above all, to the answer to the following question: what is the financial situation of the Water and Water for 2016? What is the reason for this? Is there a connection to the requested increase in the cost of water, as well as the analysis made, and is the required increase socially acceptable to the population? Will this affect future financing of infrastructure projects related to the activities of the Water and Water and especially those financed under operational programmes? Because the proposed business plan of the attention of the citizens of Shumen district is related only to repair activities and this is also a confusion. What is mostly the attitude of the Ministry and your.. as the principal of this company, to what is happening there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u165	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Shumen is a limited company of responsibility from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works system. You know, with 51% state participation in capital and 49% are allocated to the ten municipalities according to their population. Although the total amount of revenue marks an increase for 2016 by 1 million. 841,000. BGN, the company is in unstable financial condition. What you and we are reporting for 2015 ends with 317 thousand. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the restructuring plan does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 200,000. lv. The reasons for this condition are complex and include: First of all, losses in water that are significantly higher in the industry. Second, written-off irrecoverable claims and expired claims amounting to almost 300 thousand. lv. for 2016 Thirdly, the low collection rate of claims, which marks a reduction compared to the previous year. In fourth place, increased operating costs, with the largest share of those for electricity, you know a small part of the settlements in which the water supply service is operated, Shumen are reimbursed by pumping method. In the fifth place, written off by the company's balance sheet public assets, namely water and public public property facilities and public municipal property, worth almost 12 million. lv. According to, you know, the Water Act is in force as early as 2009, these changes to write off assets. On 8 March 2016, a contract was signed on the basis of art. 198 o para. 1 of the Water Act between the Association of Water and Water and Water and the City of Shumen for maintenance, management and operation of the water systems and facilities, and provision of services to the population of the territory for payment. According to the 15-year contract, the mandatory minimum level of investment that the company should make over the entire period amounts to a total of 9 million. 269 thousand. leva. In 2016, the business plan for the development of the activities of VIK Shumen is introduced as a water operator for the regulatory period 2017-2021. It provides for a complex of measures and actions to improve the efficiency of the company and the main ones are: a smooth increase in the prices of the services provided, which is in line with the criterion of social tolerance of the population, the report is reduced to 2,5% in 2015 from the incomes of households in the respective territory, the reduction of commercial losses by improving the quality and control in the reporting of water meters to consumers, the interruption of unusable branches of the water network and home deviations, which are a prerequisite for unauthorised use of water. Of course, a number of other measures. The business plan also sets out measures to increase current collection, as well as measures to increase the collection of overdue claims. The forecast is that the overdue claims over 90 days will decrease and they will become about 30% of their total amount within the framework of the implementation of the business plan. We expect with the implementation of this business plan the Company to stabilise its financial situation and increase the quality and effectiveness of the provided water service and, of course, to generate the necessary cash flows for the implementation of its investment programme, according to the contract I mentioned, between the Association for Water and Water Shumen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u167	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u168	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, to tell you the data you have exported is more than disturbing, because what you have pronounced here as figures speaks to me literally about the decapitalization of the company. Everyone here is present and the viewers and those who have bothered me with this topic know what this means. Particularly impresses the fact about the size of the loss between 2015 and 2016. The only conclusion that I can make and not only myself, but everyone who is interested is that here we have living proof of extremely bad management of the water company. And I'm really going to ask you next time you send your Deputy Minister to persuade the councillors not to come with an ultimatum, but to come with a solution to the problem, because Mrs. Krumova's behaviour is to put it mildly scandalous in a session of the Chamber. I will ask you here if, of course, you have the will and the desire to make a commitment in the shortest possible time to this water company to make an extremely serious audit, with all the details, so that you can actually find a correct formula for getting out of this situation, including, if necessary, the management of the company, because again to return to my old exhibition, this fracturing difference between the losses for one year and the next, to a large extent, obviously from your exhibition, is due to the inability to work in this company. Moreover, I will introduce you soon and I suggest the prosecution with data that I have obtained for a violation of water meters reporting and literally for the thefts there, which certainly damages both consumers and the water company itself. You understand that in such a situation it is very difficult to accept a price of 3 leva. And BGN 26. Moreover, I did not hear from your reply whether it would affect if the future investment related to the operational programmes continued to be lost at this rate, i.e. whether they were questioned by a drinking water treatment plant and a water supply from the dam, which are included in the regional pre-investment study. This is an extremely important issue, and you, as a principal, really need to take very rapid and extreme measures, for which I beg you on behalf of all citizens of the Shumen region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u169	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Do you want a hole? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ivanov! For your comfort, partly, by the way, an audit has already been commissioned on the activities of the Water and Water and Water Management, respectively, and on the management, the management of the Water and Water and Shumen, and not only on the basis of the signal found by the Commission to prevent and establish conflict of interest. There we will have a second check, respectively, about the overall activity and state of the water operator. Regarding the behaviour of Deputy Minister Krumova and your qualifications, I cannot agree with what you mentioned. I just wish I could put some very serious arguments in relation to the future realization of the projects that you mentioned. They have not yet come into regional pre-investment studies, as they have not been drawn up, but logic leads to that, and we know what the problem is. The main problem of the residents and the citizens of Shumen. First of all, the quality of drinking water, mainly of drinking water, the construction, respectively, of a treatment facility at the dam.Teacha.......................................................................................... The co-financing of these projects at the amount of, for example, 15, 16%, whatever indicators are set on the basis of the developed financial and economic analyses, analyses, costs and benefits will have to come from the revenues from the activities of the company concerned. You're an intelligent enough person to make your own logic that I'm pointing the question at. Once again, I will repeat audit commitments, audit checks on our part, yes. Thank you also for informing me specifically, but if we have to take the time back a little, you know where the financial problems of the company started. We have one contract from 2013, you know of over 5 million. 170,000. lv. with SM Sexy Europe, gr. Kazanlak, financially unsecured commitments and taking back in the years. I have always argued that in those water companies, perhaps also my colleague Genov will confirm, where we have frequent changes of management for subjective reasons there and financial and economic performance, and the performance of the companies are indeed much weaker than others, which also affects the capitalization of these companies, their financial situation and their operating activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u171	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Manol Trifonov Genov, concerning the condition of the road after the rehabilitation of 20 km section of road III 804 Popovitsa Here you are, Mr. Genov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u172	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! My question is about the condition of the road sail after rehabilitation of a 20km stretch of road III 804 Popovitsa Asenovgrad and a bridge facility at km 0 189. Dear Minister, we are already witnessing increased road traffic on the country's roads to seaside resorts on the Black Sea coast. It is an indisputable fact, with the critical condition of many of the country's transport arteries, in this situation, the risk to the security of travelers around the country and the dangerous conditions on the Republican road network is more than manifest. Less than a year ago, I alerted the disparity of the state of parts of the Republican routes and the frank deprivation of the Bulgarian taxpayers of the right to safe movement. A characteristic example of this is the status of a bridge facility at km 0 189 of the quoted road. I've asked that question twice to your predecessor, Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova. First of all, a bridge reconstruction was promised. After a constructive examination it became clear that his condition did not allow for strengthening and reconstruction. The second promise was the promise of designing a new bridge. Dear Minister, my question is as follows: when will this bridge be built, so necessary for the people, because it is the connection between many areas with the highway of Trakiya. With the highway of Maritsa, given as I said, and the increased traffic on the resorts? And will it be at least now secured because....pass and send someone to see..no mantel, no asphalt, if you pass by more than 40 km, you can keep the tailpipe pot there. It's just funny a small segment of 50.60 meters, it's true that it's connected as it became clear to the construction of a new bridge, but let it be fixed, because when people pass through there, I guess someone's ears are burning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u173	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, I hope it is not only the MPs from the region who are insufficiently persistent, perhaps in the demands and arguments of these people. I am, by the way, extremely happy to see a trend that much of the questions of your parliamentary group follow the logic of the actions we are already taking or have taken in the Ministry. A few words specifically on the subject. In the period October 2015 there was a preventive repair of around 18 km., you know, from the third-class road III-804 Popovitsa, worth almost 8 million. lv. The section is repairing by cold recycling, modern road surface repair technology, allowing efficient, ecological performance by using layers of existing pavement. There is a non-solid 6 cm, and a full 4 cm asphalt concrete. New earth trenches have been made. The existing watersheds have been cleaned and new ones have been built. The shafts are unscathed and are raised to a level of pavement. Vertical signalling, horizontal marking and restraint systems have been restored. The performance and wearability of the pavement are restored, the drainage of the road is improved and at the moment a modest finding, the section is in very good condition. Of course, there remains the problem with the facility that you mentioned. The status of the bridge facility on Route III-804 at km from 0 to 189 m above the Cherkyzitsa River due to its multiannual operation is severely deteriorated and is not subject to repair and restoration activities under the current maintenance. This is very important to understand all, because we have appropriate structural defects here, we need to design, respectively, not under the current repairs and maintenance, but of construction and construction repair activities with a new procedure. In order to ensure the safety of passengers, the facility is secured by a steel safety fence. A decision has been made to build a new bridge facility at the site of the existing one. There is already a technical project drawn up for the site, as from the budget of the Programme of the API for 2017, a few days ago we managed to provide nearly 600 thousand. lv. with VAT to award repairs to the facility concerned. The tender documentation shall be prepared for the conduct of the contract for the selection of contractor for the construction and construction supervision. In the event that there is no appeal, the construction will start in a timely manner after signing a contract with the selected contractors. I undertake from this tribune commitment that within 25 days from today we will start the public procurement for the rehabilitation of the old and the construction of a new bridge facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u175	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line. Mr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u176	I thank you for your answer. My question hasn't been that long. It's been a long time, so whether one follows the other doesn't matter. It's about doing people's jobs and keeping them happy. If you make a firm commitment because these promises have been inherited from you by the predecessor, as I said just now, I have been promised these things twice. Let this happen now and I will be extremely precise with regard to your promises. Thank you for the efforts made on behalf of the voters, because they belong to everyone living in the area and their expectations for this facility were extremely high. There were protests in time years ago. Not just me, but they will monitor how, what happens and when this facility will be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u177	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Secretary, you're denying the coat?! Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Sevim Ismail Ali, concerning Republican Road III Here you go, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u178	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about Republican Road III-208 Provadia "Duskotna" Aytos, from km 51 plus 130 to km 82 plus 650 in territorial range border of the municipality of Rouen, Burgas region and a rock tunnel, located 56 km from this section. In the Republican Road III-208 Provadia "Duskotna" Aytos, dear Minister, is in a very poor operational state. There is a depreciated, worn asphalt flooring with networked cracks and deformations with numerous failed areas of the pavement. There is a need for urgent, urgent recovery of the road section described above. The road Provadia "Duskotna" is with very bad and very intense movement due to the fact that it is a major artery serving by citizens and workers of the municipality of Rouen and the municipality of Aytos, and not only. The insufficient technical-service support in recent years by APIs on the road and adjacent banquets from drainage ditches has led to the current extremely poor technical condition of the road section under consideration, which is a prerequisite for a crash. At the 56th kilometer of division III-208 Provadia, a rock tunnel is located, which is very dangerous and should urgently improve the technical and operational state of the facility, with the tunnel being extremely narrow and the clearance of vehicles is impossible. The tunnel is 16 meters long, cut into a rock nearly a century ago, and has never been renovated mainly. The facility is located between two villages and the locals are worried about its immediate unsatisfactory state. At the beginning of the current year, extremely insufficient measures were taken to secure the facility by destroying the tunnel, installing safety nets and other activities. It is necessary to perform a major repair of the tunnel, providing for the extension of the waterproofing tunnel and new pavement. In this regard, my question to you, Mr. Minister, is: is there funds provided for in 2017 for the main rehabilitation of the Republican road III-208 Provadia "Duskotna" Aytos, from km 51 plus 130 to km 82 plus 650 in territorial scope of the border of the municipality of Rouen, Burgas, as well as funds for the major repair of a rock tunnel located 56 km from this section? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u179	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u180	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ali! The Republican Road III-208 Provadia was included in the priority list of sections to be financed under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" The agreed financial resource under the Operational Programme has been exhausted so far, it will be looking for an opportunity to provide funds for the site from the budget of the Railway Infrastructure Agency, as it found itself in a much more backward place a few months ago, and to plan the rehabilitation of the section in the coming years. For the main repair of the section there is a technical project prepared, that is, we have a design readiness, including the construction of the rock tunnel, which you mentioned at km 56, as follows: Provide the necessary gauge of the tunnel facility and tunnel section through controlled explosive works to shape the necessary profile through the rock array, and permanently strengthen the impact by continuous anchoring of the skate along its entire length and height. The design also envisions strengthening the ski before and after the tunnel by means of a monolith steel concrete construction type of semi-tunnel. The Road Infrastructure Agency seeks to maintain the third-class road in good operational condition. In 2016 according to the funds under the Programme "Current repair and maintenance" types of work were carried out at a total value of 105 thousand. lv. In the section from km 51 to 73 under the Emergency Programme of the Road Infrastructure Agency in 2016 10 concrete support walls with a total length of 912 m are completed. These walls are built to prevent the falling of rock and earth masses on the road pavement in heavy rains. The total cost of the engineering contract is close to 1 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. with VAT. With the implementation of the walls, the safety of the movement of motor vehicles through the Aytos Pass has increased and facilitates the maintenance of the road in that area. At present, according to the approved budget funds under the Programme "Current repair and maintenance" - unfortunately, these are the opportunities that we have at present, there has been a patching of the pavement for a total of 67 202 BGN. with VAT. In June, a cold patching of part of the pavement is to be performed. In February of this year, a specialized committee took a look at the rock tunnel on route III-208 As a short-term measure, in February 2017 activities were implemented at a total value of almost 40 000 BGN. with VAT. For the period 2016 to June 2017, the Agency has invested in maintaining the operational state of the road. 652,000. lv. with VAT, including emergency activities, which represents a significant financial resource only from the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency. To increase the funds reinvested in road infrastructure and to increase road safety, our government, you know, almost every issue concerning Republican infrastructure, I answer that, as a major priority in its programme, is the introduction of the mixed system of electronic wine for light and tol fees for heavy goods vehicles over three and a half tons. This will increase the collection of road funds to almost 1 billion. lv. The state is currently collecting and reinvesting only 300 million. BGN, which are extremely insufficient to maintain in quality condition, in good operational condition of the large part, unfortunately, of our Republican road network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u181	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. A line? Here you go, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u182	Dear Minister, I am not satisfied with your answer. Note that at the moment there is an urgent need for repair of this road section, which is 31 km, and any delay in repairing the rehabilitation of this road section in time carries a risk to the health of the users of this section. I would like to point out that 27 out of a total of 40 settlements, only in the municipality of Rouen this time is a major artery and is used intensively by the residents of these settlements and not only is used by cars and trucks that travel from Burgas to Varna region. It is therefore necessary to urgently repair and rehabilitate this road section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u183	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ali! After all, I will answer that I am not satisfied with my own answer, but this is the situation, these are the realities in our country. I'll calmly fall into the hypothesis: Okay, we're withdrawing the investment loan. The colleagues on the left will immediately say: "Why do you withdraw and why increase the amount of the debt of the state through infrastructure projects and not social benefits?" You know, the normal economic logic is that a person spends as much as he earns. I mentioned the $320 million is our billing revenue, 320 million goes for road maintenance, road safety, winter maintenance, emergency repairs. Exception, of course, which, of course, we are importing under the framework of................... the two operational programmes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. For the lasting, global, long-term solution of this problem, something that has not been done in Bulgaria, unfortunately, for 28 years, namely the maximum rapid deployment of the model, which I referred to as the mixed model of the car charge, the electronic wineries for cars and toll charges for heavy goods vehicles. Then we will have enough financial resources for quality support and full rehabilitation. Indeed it is key, I do not deny that this is a key section, I also use it often, traveling to Varna, especially since the Kotlenska Pass, for example, is much more loaded with heavy goods vehicles. I'm also going through the Ayto Pass. Indeed, the functional state of the road is difficult, and the commitment that we must and can make, the objective commitment, is precisely the introduction of the toll, and will be fully repaired as quickly as possible. At the moment, the activities that I mention are either emergency repairs related to ensuring the normal passage through some of the settlements, you know, we have strengthened the landslide, which I mentioned, are several landslides in the region of the village of Duskotina and, respectively, current repairs, which really is a paliative measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u185	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. What will colleagues on the left say, it is a matter of argumentation of the government, not a question of some dogmatic position. Thanks, too. The next question is from the MPs Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov and Ivan Kirov Genov, concerning the repair of Republican road II-11, a section of the road around Kozloduy. Who's going to develop the question? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u186	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! We have lived to see our question come on the agenda, although it is put here not for the first time. I sincerely hope that we will put it to the last, because this is about a very important section that is connected not only with the safe movement of our workers from Kozloduy and from the region working in Central, but also with safety. We are talking about a road that must ensure that the population is evacuated in the event of an emergency. Such emergency plans have been made, each nuclear power plant has an emergency plan to evacuate the population and it is included in this plan that evacuation routes must be maintained in a very good condition. I have been living in Kozloduy since 1980. Since 2015 horizons have been given for road repair, for rehabilitation in 2016, then a promise for 2017. Nothing is happening yet. On the contrary, there hasn't been a worse condition since I lived in this city. Currently there are sections of Kozloduy's ring road, about 20 meters, which are already like cemeteries and there is hardly any pass. That's after we said and promised the road would be made.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u187	Time's up, Mr. Genov. Get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u188	The question is: when, however, will rehabilitation be a fact so that people can travel safely and that the evacuation routes from Kozloduy are in proper condition?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u189	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u190	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, the area of the road around Kozloduy is part of the Republic road II-11, the border of Montana region, Oryahovo, with the border of the district of Pleven. Rehabilitation of the section of road II-11 Kozloduy "Herlez" is part of the planned activities under the Project "Development of the National Storage for the Burial of Radioactive Waste." By the way, soon, three weeks ago, the National Expert Council came up with a construction solution. The project will be implemented on the site of Radiana, which is owned by a state-owned company Radio-active waste and is located on an internal factory road of NPP. It is expected that the implementation of a national storage facility for the disposal of radioactive waste will lead to significant relief of traffic in the section of the second-class Republican road, as part of the planned routes for evacuation of the population from the emergency protection area around the nuclear power plant Kozloduy, which you mentioned, respectively, along the route of route II-11. The project has approved funding under the Grantovo agreement 035 between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the State-owned enterprise. At the moment, a public contract has been held for the selection of a contractor. The construction of the site is planned to start in this year 2017. The Road Infrastructure Agency is conducting active correspondence on the rehabilitation of the road section for which you are asking your question, with the State-owned company "Radio-active waste" and the municipality of Kozloduy and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works from 2014 to provide the necessary technical assistance in preparing the project proposal and the Project from the point of view of development procedures. In connection with the implementation of the National Repository Project, the Road Infrastructure Agency has provided the necessary assistance by providing all the necessary materials for the development of the technical project, namely: - an established assignment for the design of a technical project for the major repair of road II-11 Kozloduy - technical design for road II-11, which should be updated in accordance with the requirements of the design assignment. Source data are provided for the preparation of a repair project and table for the average day and year intensity of the vehicle traffic for 2015 and forecast by 2030 at an additional point in this section. That is, I summarize the answer to the question of construction of the road, the rehabilitation of the road should start in 2017. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u191	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Genov. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u192	Dear Minister, from your words we can hope that this is the last question on the matter. I hope it doesn't turn out to be the last, because Kozloduy's bypass has no connection to Kozloduy's road, Lom, it is not finished. There's about a half a mile of dirt road there. It's just been that way for years. If we are talking about tol systems, Kozloduy NPP has been in its own system for a long time because it is one of the biggest taxpayers in Bulgaria and each year in different directions it contributes to the country's budget around 400 million. lv. Every year! Now, it turns out that we have secured funds from the Fund of Kozloduy. It doesn't matter where the funds come from, the important thing is to make the path of the nuclear power plant and the bypass of Kozloduy, with the completion of the section of Lom. I sincerely hope that this will happen. I'm counting on this to be the last question on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u193	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? You won't use it. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Nikola Iliev Dinkov regarding the extremely serious emergency condition of the Republican road III-5509 Svilengrad Here you are, Mr. Dinkov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u194	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! My question is about the extremely severe emergency condition of the third-class road 5509 Svilengrad Dear Minister, this Republican road serves eight villages with a population of about 1200 people. The bus traffic is extremely difficult as well as the ambulance service. The road is also extremely important for our state border, as border police officers cannot carry out their duties in due course, with the necessary speed. The development of agriculture in the region is difficult, which is a major livelihood. Near the villages of Mikhalic and Matochina are located some of the most significant tourist sites. On the territory of the municipality of Svilengrad the medieval tower near the village of Matochina, rock churches and others, dolmen near the village of Studena. These tourist sites of national importance are of the most visited in the region. In relation to all of this, this is my question: is this third-rate rehabilitation envisaged and when will this happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u195	Thank you for the question, Mr. Dinkov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Dinkov! The third-class road III-5509 Svilengrad Five large structures were built along the way, four of which had a narrow width gauge. Main repairs have not been carried out since 1984. " 33 years. " Two approaches can be used to improve the technical operating parameters of the road: Taking measures in the short term, carrying out preventive repairs. According to an expert assessment of this type of activity, approximately 12 million are needed. lv. with VAT. The second approach is taking long-term measures, carrying out rehabilitation, reconstruction, which will also improve the geometric characteristics of the route, deformed, ineffectively designed 33 years ago. In this case, a technical project should be drawn up and a selection procedure should be carried out. The Indicative Funds under established indicators for carrying out this type of repair amount to almost 30 million. lv. In the meantime, with a view to solving immediate road safety problems and ensuring normal road passage, partial repairs are being awarded within the framework of the Programme "Current repair and maintenance" of API, with asphalt works, drainage events, landscape formation of a total value of more than 150 thousand in 2015. lv. with VAT. In May this year, the third-class banquet was completed. In August this year, the execution of asphalt activities is envisaged to amount to around 50 thousand. lv. with VAT. Of course, funds are sought, including targeted funding. In the presence of a financial resource, the Road Infrastructure Agency is ready to take appropriate action on one of the two options. We all need to make a clear account of the Agency's annual budget of 300 million. BGN, 30 million lv. for a major road repair, a tenth of the entire budget of the Agency, which is not solely for the rehabilitation of individual road sections. So we all need to judge together and ask ourselves clearly the question, and maybe we should respond to it ourselves - not me from this high tribune: how should we predict maintenance, new construction, rehabilitation of road infrastructure, how should we ensure its safety through horizontal, vertical marking, better road characteristics and, respectively, what are the socio-economic and demographic effects after the implementation of such investments? I'm not going to reschedule the subject of tolling again. On the previous question Mr. Genov accused me a little unfairly, not to talk to him again about tolls, I did not mention tolls on the previous issue, as we have provided the necessary resources for the tour of Kozloduy, in this case without the introduction of toll. With the hand of the heart I can tell you that a lasting solution to the problem is really realistic.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u197	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u198	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u199	I'm also grateful for the answer. Here's a line, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I understand from your reply that there will be no rehabilitation of the road, but I hope there will still be sufficient efforts to patch the road up and be able to walk, as we must be accountable to the population in this border area. I would like to draw your attention to something specific this time has been destroyed in connection with the extraction of inert materials for the construction of the border crossing approach, Captain Andreevo, as well as for the construction of the road to the fence that was built with the Republic of Turkey. I have one answer with me from the Ministry, where it is written that after the entry into service of the border crossings, Captain Andreevo is going to be taken measures the company that carried the building materials to help bring the road to a state so that people can move calmly. I think it might be helpful for the road to be patched up and just walking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u201	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. You want a douche bag? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dinkov, either you didn't understand me, or you know something I don't know, because I bound the complete rehabilitation of the road with the introduction of tol fees. If you know that tolls will not be introduced, tell me not to make these efforts to introduce them, because really with the current resource that generates the road sector, the need not only in Haskovo region, but in all 28 areas of the country, let's 27, Sofia to exclude it, are extremely large. In each area, I can mention at least three sections of the Republican road infrastructure, which are in the same area, not to say in a worse, operational state. In Vratsa, for example, your colleague Ivanov points out an example, there are five sections I can point to. Let us be a little pragmatic and to realise in this short time, these few months in which we bet.. not that it has not been put as a priority before, but we have placed as a major priority in the road sector precisely the introduction of the heavy traffic toltaxation system, which you specifically mentioned is the main reason for the demolition of the asphalt pavement on the existing third-class road. Well, what a fairer model there is than charging more traffic on the basis of the principle: the asset that destroys it will pay more! I'm sorry to have to say this, but the interpretation really wasn't accurate. I didn't say the road wouldn't be done, but I tied his full rehabilitation to the introduction of tolls. Otherwise, the ongoing renovation and its preventive maintenance, as far as I repeat, the Agency's budget allows, I have mentioned what amounts we will set aside this year for patching up the pavement in the toughest areas, but these are not palatial measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u203	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. With your back, the time for today's parliamentary control is up. I'm adjourning today's parliamentary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-07.u204	The next meeting of the National Assembly will be on 12 July 2017, a regular meeting, at 9.00 a.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
