ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u1	There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, allow me to present to you the Programme Project, which was discussed at the Conference of Presidents and acquired the following form: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 5 to 7 July 2017 No proposals have been received by the parliamentary groups in accordance with art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 1. Administrative monitoring report for 2016 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020). Importer of the Council of Ministers, 15 June 2017 2. The term of office of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund shall be terminated. He has resigned from Glinka Komitov, Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, on 29 June 2017. 3. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers of the Council of Ministers, 12 June 2017; Konstantin Popov and a group of MPs, 22 June 2017. 4. Report on the activities of the Electronic Media Board for the period 1 January 5. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the administration of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 23 June 2017 6. Report of the Temporary Commission for the study of unpaid wage cases and draft decision on the report. Importer supposed commission, 28 June 2017 Point 1 for Thursday, 6 July 2017 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 19 June 2017. Adopted at first vote on 28 June 2017. Point 2 for Thursday, 6 July 2017 8. Parliamentary control. Please vote. Vote 177 MPs: 130 against 35, abstention 12. Program accepted. We have a proposal for inclusion of a point in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly for the period 5 July 2017 in accordance with art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly by the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Krum Zarkov and Philip Popov. The proposal shall be inadmissible as not complying with the requirements of art. 53, para. Three of our rules. It concerns a Bill on the Civil Procedure Code. Today will be discussed in the Legal Commission. The report will be delivered by 9:00 tomorrow. I made a commitment by the Conference of Presidents to discuss all draft laws on the subject on Friday as the first point. Messages: Draft and draft resolutions for the period from 28 June to 4 July 2017: On 28 June 2017, a Report for the implementation of the State Social Security budget for 2016 was received. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. On 29 June 2017, a Draft Law for the ratification of the Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Department of National Defence of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Government of Sweden, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the Centre for the Coordination of Movement of Europe. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Defence is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committees on Budget and Finance and Foreign Policy. On 29 June 2017, a Draft Law for the ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme was adopted "Interreg" Bulgaria "IPP" "Serbia SSI 2014TS16I5W007" between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committees on Budget and Finance, on European issues and control of European funds and on foreign policy. On 30 June 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act was adopted. Importer? the people representative Stanislav Ivanov. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Once again on 30 June 2017, the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2016 was received. It is allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. On 30 June 2017, an Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2016 was received. "Analyse of the Services of the Services." Importer supposed to the Communications Regulation Commission. It is allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. On 3 July 2017, the State Aid Act entered into force. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committees on Agriculture and Food, on Legal Affairs and on Economic Policy and Tourism. On 4 July 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code was adopted. Importer of the People's Representative Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. On 4 July 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary was adopted. The representatives of the National Assembly Danail Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov, Christian Mitev, Anna Alexandrova and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in the implementation of the Plan for joint Bulgarian-American training and exercises in the country and abroad for 2017 a joint Bulgarian-American pilot workout will be held between 1 and 14 July 2017. The notification was received on 30 June with an IC. No 703-09-20 and granted to the Defence Committee. The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period from 25 May to 24 June 2017, Protocol No 27 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. According to the Law on the Fiscal Council and the automatic correctives in the National Assembly, the opinion of the Fiscal Council on the Convergence Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2020, approved by Decision No 284 of the Council of Ministers of 2017. By letters of the President, the material is provided to all permanent committees and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute about a general index of producer prices in industry, indexes of producer prices on the domestic and international market in industry for May 2017. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Dear Members of the National Assembly, the floor requested the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable MPs! I stand before you to inform you what has happened in recent days in connection with the floods and through you to inform the Bulgarian citizens. But before that, because it is today July 5th "Festivities of the Ministry of Interior," I take the liberty of inviting you "from 11:30 p.m. before "Alexander Nevski" there will be a waterlight of flags, the forces are built, there will be a display of a technique of the Ministry of Interior. So welcome to the party. In relation to the information received from the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, about the forthcoming complicated situation then due to the expected heavy rainfall in the country's territory in the period 2 - 4 July this week and at the end of last week, with Order No 124 of Prime Minister Borisov and on the grounds of art. 62, para. 2 of the Disaster Protection Act was convened the National Headquarters under the National Disaster Protection Plan, and Part Two was called. I was in charge, deputy minister. In this order and in this National Plan participated: Minister Nankov of Regional Development, Dimov of Environment and Water, Minister of Agriculture, Commissioner Mladenov, Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior, and Nikolay Nikolov Director of the Directorate General of the Ministry. As head of the National Staff, I inform you that, with the ministers and other members of the National Headquarters, we have taken all necessary preventive measures and subsequently activities which should be implemented according to the requirements of the National Plan. In accordance with the Prime Minister's order, we held the first meeting of the members of the National Headquarters on Sunday, on Sunday, at 18:00 p.m. in the Ministry of Interior building. The meeting reported information on expected heavy rainfall in the areas of the country which was notified to us by Prof. Hristomir Brunzov, Director of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. The tasks in front of the central and local authorities were discussed to take additional preventive measures to prevent and reduce the effects of the floods. By my letter No 81-21K, as head of the National Staff, I sent an instruction to the district governors. The letter was also sent to the National Association of Municipalities. In the implementation of the instructions given to the district managers, the following was carried out: a review of the regional municipal action plans was carried out; an organisation was established for monitoring critical locations, especially rivers and dams; an overview was made on the readiness of the emergency recovery equipment and on the construction of dikes; a link was made with voluntary formations for inclusion in the implementation of urgent emergency reconstruction works; an organization was established to introduce, if necessary, regional and municipal contingency plans; an organization was established to maintain a permanent link with the municipalities on duty under the operational parts of the Ministry of Interior. Apart from that, instructions were sent to territorial structures to take additional preventive measures to increase the readiness of the constituent parts of the so-called "Unified Rescue System" including police, ambulance, fire department and BCC together. An organization was established for the constant exchange of information between the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology of BAS, the Meteorological Centre of the Air Force, the Centre for Aerospace Surveillance, DXI and the Ministry of Interior on the development of the weather situation. She's been following herself all the time. The authorities of the executive local authorities were informed in the areas where an orange code was declared. On July 3rd, on Monday, at 3 pm again in the Ministry of Interior, we held the second meeting of the National Headquarters. The meeting was attended by additional members, including the mayor of the capital Mrs. Fandakova. Reports on the factual situation were submitted at the meeting, actions were taken, including on the readiness of the departments and the status of the parts of this Plan. On the phone were heard direct opinions of the regional governors of Vidin, Vratsa, Pleven, Targovishte and Razgrad about the situation at the moment, the readiness of the forces and the funds, and the measures taken in this area. After analyzing the information they received and assessing the situation, it was noted that the necessary coordination and organization of work of all institutions involved in the problem of heavy precipitation and hailing was created. It was reported by the levels that large dams have sufficient free volume to absorb the expected amounts of precipitation, including those with drinking water that are at MRRB, and other large dams that are for watering and are at the Ministry of Agriculture. I have ordered the regional governors of Vidin, Vratsa, Lovech, Pleven, Targovishte and Razgrad to take measures to inform the mayors, and something that is missing from the population about the organization. During the period from 18:00 on July 2nd, Sunday, until Tuesday 12:00 p.m., more than 650 signals related to the complicated situation have been received on the National Emergency Phone 112, which has fallen branches, trees, clogged shafts and so on, which is common in floods. The most critical was the situation in Pleven District... Pleven municipalities, Rhem, Gulyantsi. In order to overcome the consequences of the fallen rainfall, operational groups of affected municipalities were formed. By order RD-10 of the mayor of Pleven was declared a partially dire situation. The road section of Pleven has been closed. The falling heavy rains further led to the closure of the roads Victory Rise, Rise. Komarevo, which was due to accumulated water quantities and mud on the canvas. On July 3rd, on Monday, around 2:00 p.m. within seven hours only significantly complicated the situation in the Samokov Municipality area was informed by TV due to heavy rain. Over 260 signals were received and with the order of the mayor of Samokov and a partial disaster situation was announced here. In order to help the endangered population were introduced teams of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population................................................................................................ The operations included eight fire trucks, 32 motor pumps, specialized amphibious amphibious "Taiga" and 4 motor pumps from the emergency unit in Sofia Municipality. The evacuation of 12 citizens was carried out. Targovishte District also warned directly from headquarters hours before the rain hit them. Around 18:00 on 3 July 2017, this storm developed on the territory of Omurtag and there fell branches, trees, houses and also a partial disaster situation was announced, only for the municipality of Omurtag. The situation in Sozopol deteriorated sharply, a strong storm, rain, again sent teams. Around 11:00 p.m., the situation in the city is back to normal. In Sofia, for the period from 2 to 3 July 2017, the front of the bad weather passed through the western part of the city the area of Gorna Banya, Lyulin and Obelia, and the central part of the city. We've registered 23 signals in total. In the districts of Varna, Veliko Tarnovo, Vidin, Vratsa, Montana, Lovech, Ruse, Kyustendil and Pernik were also received numerous signals, but the situation in these regions did not impose a state of disaster. The Bulgarian army with its modules in the country was ready, but did not have to include them. Information about the damage related to the road situation: damage to the Republican road network in the districts of Pleven, Lovech, Vratsa, Veliko Tarnovo and Sofia was done. There are flooded road sections, land masses, excavated banquets, deposits on the road, fallen trees that we're dealing with right now. As a result of the big storm, a leak has been seen in the left tube of the tunnel. The tunnel is monitored and will proceed to clean sails and ensure safe movement of motor vehicles. Information about the state of the rivers: over the past days the water levels of almost all rivers in the Danube basin have risen, but are below the average water thresholds. Damages for agricultural production: As of 4 July 2017, yesterday, eight applications were submitted by the end of the day to form committees for examination. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry informed that in the period 2 and 3 July 2017, nine impacts were carried out on 75 cloud hail cells and 736 rockets were fired. In conclusion, I would stress that concerted action between all executive institutions and the timely convening of the National Headquarters contributed to the competent response of the teams at all levels of management in the process of implementing the National Plan for Disasters and Accidents. This also led to non-victims. Today and in the coming days will continue to help the affected settlements and describe the damage. In today's 5th day, we continue to monitor the situation in the country, taking into account its normalisation, which also implies an end to the activities of the National Headquarters for the implementation of the National Disaster Protection Plan. On the 6th, tomorrow, a meeting of the Interdepartmental Commission for Assistance and Recovery is scheduled to be held to the Council of Ministers, which will optimize the spending of remaining funds. of 70 million. lv. the Commission's general budget, taking into account the damage caused by heavy rainfall in recent days. Dear MPs, I believe that with the timely preventive actions of the government reported to you, they give you and Bulgarian citizens an idea of how it works and how the disaster protection system of the country should work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u3	Thank you, dear Minister. Please give congratulations to all MPs to the employees of the Ministry of Interior, even to those who will not be able to attend at 11:30.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u5	There has been a request for a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Volja. Mr. Hristov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In just a few days, doctors were once again beaten up in Plovdiv County Hospital and in the hospital of Shaneovo in Sofia. The Volja Party expresses its strong support for them and for all Bulgarian medics who are making immense efforts to continue working under these abnormal conditions. What kind of country is it that cannot protect the representatives of one of the most important and humane professions? Is this how we will keep the medics in Bulgaria and let every bully abuse them? We demand that the government take measures to end the violence against Bulgarian doctors. Instead of patronizing cartels and dealing with domestic lobbying scandals, we call on the ruling parties to deal with people's real problems. The beating this time is over medics, but this is just one of the examples of widespread crime, which we do not see an adequate response to. This is a small but categorically clear example of the state's total abdication from its main role to protect the life, property and right to the dignity of its citizens. What's going on in Bulgaria? Beating up doctors every week, students hit teachers and classmates, aggression in our society grows every day. The feeling of lack of a state, of impunity is widespread and unties the hands of people who have no place in our modern society. At the same time we are witnessing another tension between Roma and Bulgarians this time in Asenovgrad. A problem that a few days who knows why it isn't solved? Some questions arise: did someone not take advantage of the situation to shift public attention from other awkward topics, such as: what exactly was going on in the NDK? Why did the state have to borrow a new loan so urgently? Why didn't the minimum pension become 300 levs, as was generously promised to the elderly? Why are the police in front of parliament today?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u7	Because they have a holiday.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u8	Turning Bulgaria into a territory with an uneducated and easily manipulatable population may be the goal of the political and economic cartel, but it is our will that the state protects the rights and dignity of its citizens so that we can live in a normal state where the law is above everything and above all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Here you are, Mrs. Zaharieva, on behalf of the political party GERB parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! We of the political party GERB parliamentary group firmly believe that education and literacy are the right and duty of every person. We actively work for every Bulgarian citizen to be literate in order to be useful to himself and to the whole society. In every action we have so far advocated policies for guaranteed and stable, and quality education. The mechanism adopted by decision of the Council of Ministers and Prime Minister Boyko Borisov for the joint work of the institutions on covering and retention in the educational system of children and students, compulsory pre-school and school age, is one of the steps for fulfilling the firm commitment of GERB and the government to overcome illiteracy for the purpose of better life and economic growth. Our country and society can no longer afford to have people with low education or no education. We cannot allow families who ignore their duties and deprive their children of the right to a better life. Lack of education leads to conflicts such as in Asenovgrad or Stolipinovo, unemployment and crime. High income and stable economy are achieved only with quality education. We cannot afford to spend public and public resources supporting families or groups of society who do not fulfil their constitutional obligations to send their children to school. We must provide enough mechanisms so that every child on this 15th of September enters the kindergarten or classroom and stays there. The adopted mechanism by the Council of Ministers is a measure in this direction that will ensure compliance with the constitutional obligation of each parent to provide education for its child up to 16 years of age. The document, which is part of the common understanding and consistent policy of GERB, requires the commitment of all institutions in education, in the social system and the police to help families and children and students. It sets out precise and short deadlines to provide for every locality, for each school and kindergarten team of specialists in education, social services, municipalities and police to work together so that each child, without exception, receives individual assistance and support along the way of knowledge. In every place with a school by 20 August 2017 teams will be formed that will work for every child to be in kindergarten or school. There are clear rules for rapid interaction between institutions and specific support measures. According to data from the National Statistical Institute in the academic year 2015/2016, every seventh student between 15 and 18 years is not in school. Teams must identify children and students who have not gone to a garden or school at all, as well as those who have stopped visiting them prematurely. It is also their duty to identify which children are at risk of leaving the education system and to take additional support measures. According to information from GRA until 31 August 2017, the mayors of municipalities should draw up a list of children who should have gone to a garden or school last year but were not enrolled. Teams will visit their homes, talk to their parents. To persuade them to send their children to school, mediators and local communities will be attracted. The mechanism also provides for optimization of the procedure for granting family and other aid in kind, in relation to the individual needs of children and students. The information collected will be provided to the mayors of municipalities to sanction the violation of the Pre-school and School Education Act. If some of the children are not found at their addresses, the Ministry of Interior will seek assistance to establish their residence. Dear colleagues, GERB also promised a double increase in teachers' salaries for a four-year term. Every year 330 million. lv. Investment in education is a firm financial and political commitment for motivated teachers and for better education. We continue to invest in preschool education and early childhood care. We have a new Preschool and School Education Act that guarantees freedom of work for teachers and requires quality training for the 21st century generations. We aim for the development of personalities with guaranteed success and professional realization. We work and continue to work on programs for the vocational training of students. We support policies from kindergarten to the end of high school to develop personal talent. We are constantly talking to business about how to do what is necessary in order to have a high quality of staff in the labour market, regardless of the profession, because all of this is at the heart of having a stable state, security in society and economic prosperity of the nation. In education, honourable Members, there is no room for populism and cheap unreal promises, such as giving one-off aid, as we heard a few days ago by the BSP. We know that for colleagues on the left it is a matter of party duty to exercise on the subject and try to accumulate political dividends. Attempts to constantly imply mistrust of everything that is being done for better education and prosperity is politically irresponsible. This is not about GERB's success, it is about that we, as a society, cannot afford an education that fails to educate; it is about schools that cannot keep students in classrooms; it is about parents who with impunity deprive their children of their rights; about institutions that have mechanism and financial resources, but cannot understand how to work together. These are the difficult processes and we at GERB know this very well, but besides working hard to overcome the challenges, we have no other way. We at GERB took on our responsibility and commitment to overcome the problem of illiteracy. We took and fulfilled our commitment to every Bulgarian child with the policies that the party and the government of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov accepted for implementation. Each one of us realizes that this is not a matter of debate, but of definite decisions today and now, and works, and will work in this direction. We believe that with the efforts of each of us, with the efforts of our allies, with the efforts of each Bulgarian, we will give every child a chance to gain knowledge and give us, as a nation, a chance to build a safe future and prosperity. These, honourable Members, are not just words. Statistics, analysts, examples from the rest of the world are categorical. The educated people get more, work better and live better in an economically and socially stable state. Thank you. [[Replicates from BSP for Bulgaria: Bravo! Bravo! Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. On behalf of the parliamentary group, the People's Representative Hamid Hamid has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable MPs! Today is July 5th. The professional celebration of police and employees in the Ministry of Interior, let me congratulate them most warmly on behalf of the parliamentary group of the DPS and wish them happiness, health and luck, wish them professional successes and let this holiday this year, which they do not celebrate and protest, be the last in this kind! Let their holiday be real next year, not to protest for higher incomes and for solving problems in the Ministry of Interior. I would like to congratulate both the Home Secretary and the entire political cabinet. With the greeting I have an appeal to them let them hear what the police want, because, agree, colleagues, it does not sound very good from the mouth of the Minister of Interior words such as: I slightly do not understand what these policemen want. Mr. Minister, listen to these people, they're not protesting that they're having a holiday, as we hear. They don't protest because they don't want to celebrate. They're protesting because the knife went to the bone. Many years they endure, many years we promise. It is commendable what you do in the field of education. I congratulate Mrs. Zaharieva on the declaration, but I want the same declaration from the Political Party GERB and a firm commitment, and a strategy for solving the problems in the Ministry of Interior. The problems there are many, the problems in the sector are many, there is no clear vision and strategy for solving them, but today is a holiday, colleagues. Happy Thanksgiving! One more time to the police. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u13	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. For a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, the people's representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today on 5 July, we celebrate the professional celebration of the Ministry of Interior institution, established 138 years ago by Prince Alexander Batenberg and having a fundamental role in the formation and development of the Bulgarian state after the Liberation and guarantor for the normal functioning of public relations and the security of citizens. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, on today's date it is not possible to expect from those we have to congratulate for the professional celebration, gratitude and gratitude for a job well done. The ongoing systematic and unsuccessful attempts to reform the Ministry of Interior over the past two years in particular have shown a lack of state-owned attitude towards the country's security not only by the political leadership of the Ministry in this period, but also by all who support such an approach, namely the ruling coalitions in the forty-three and forty-fourth National Assembly dominated by the Political Party GERB. This leads to immeasurable negative consequences and, unfortunately, mainly increases the mistrust of citizens in the fact that the Ministry of Interior as an institution has the capacity to guarantee their security. The security sector, ladies and gentlemen, must have its sustainability, its prognosis that for those employees who carry on the service and for those who enter into work, the working conditions on which they are appointed will not deteriorate every year and they must fulfil their duties. Today, these policemen, who will protest before the National Assembly and who have been pressured to prevent them from fulfilling their right, have many reasons for what they are doing. They must not stop after the arrogant attitude of the government towards them. We do not accept Prime Minister Borisov to transfer responsibilities because three, even four ministers from GERB have been managing the Ministry of Interior since 2009 and the main reason for what will be expressed outside as discontent is the lack of social dialogue and confusion in the positions of political leadership. Just to remind ourselves of the political program of GERB from the last elections, where the state of policemen was promised to be filled with 6 thousand people; presence in every locality of a uniformed police officer, and in fact it turned out that the employees of the Ministry had broken shoes and bought their uniforms to go to guard the Bulgarian border. Only fear of protests led to a rapid change of the Ministry of Interior Act allowing missing clothes to be replaced with money. At the same time, we all expect the managers to fulfil the commitments made at the last meeting of the Advisory Council for National Security, namely by 30 June, which has already expired, to provide specific plans to complete the shortage of personnel in the sector.Secrets and in particular the Ministry of Interior; to present measures to increase the qualification, prestige and motivation of the person working in the sector; to present a plan for its modernisation. Only a lack of answers and actions by both the Minister of Interior and the Prime Minister, against the backdrop of Finance Minister Goranov's intention to reduce the Ministry's budget for 2018 by 300 million. BGN, ignoring the enormous tensions in the security system and the above-mentioned intentions for measures in the security sector, right on the threshold of the upcoming Presidency of the Council of the European Union. What can we expect from the employees in the Ministry of Interior who are constantly receiving similar "surprises" and for work are awarded "with lower pay" and poor conditions of performance of their duties? The only thing we can expect in such a situation is deepening and irreversible demotivation when carrying the service. And in order to be able to honor their professional celebration, the people who are currently preparing to go outside and make their demands to us and to stop demotivation do not need much, honourable ladies and gentlemen. They just need to be heard and lead to a change of certain public relations to their improved version, which will lead to better conditions for fulfilling professional debt, namely, to meet the demands of these people, a new law on the Ministry of Interior, cleared of contradictions, raising the remuneration of these people and normal working conditions. Happy Holiday, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry! May the next holiday be greeted with dignity! Thank you. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: ADMINISTRATIVEMonitoring Report 2016 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Integrating the ROMS (2012 - 2020). Importer is the Council of Ministers on 15 June 2017. Report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Here you go, Mr. Kalfin. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted in plenary Ms. Rositsa Ivanova Secretary of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u17	Please, voting mode. Vote 159 MPs: 150 against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Kalfin. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u18	♪ I can't believe on Administrative Monitoring Report 2016 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 702-00-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 June 2017. At a regular meeting held on 29 June 2017, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights discussed an Administrative Monitoring Report 2016 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 702-00-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 June 2017. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Hristina Hristova Vice-President of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues at the Council of Ministers, Ms. Rositsa Ivanova Secretary of the same Council and experts. On behalf of the importer, the report was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Ivanova. She stressed that the Administrative Monitoring Report is in line with the decision of the National Assembly of 1 March 2012 on the adoption of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020). Every year the Council of Ministers submits a report to the National Assembly on the implementation of the National Strategy at national level by priorities. It shall include the information submitted by the institutions, taking into account the progress made on the measures and activities under the six priorities of the National Strategy, education, health care, employment, housing, culture and media, rule of law and anti-discrimination. The administrative monitoring report for 2016 is divided into two parts - information provided by the state institutions and an application which sets out the regional strategies and municipal plans for action to these strategies. Mrs. Ivanova noted that a system for monitoring and control of the National Strategy is to be developed and the report will be analytical as of next year. Progress in education is reported by: the introduced full-time organization of the school day for students from I to VII grade; ensuring equal access to quality education of children and students from small towns, including through integration of Roma children and students into ethnically mixed kindergartens and schools. In 2016 in the field of health significant progress was the increase of health mediators, mobile offices and the scope of preventive examinations among the Roma population, especially among young children. In the field of employment, the mobilisation of the efforts of all stakeholders to activate Roma communities in terms of integration of the labour market is indicated as success. The result of the information submitted by the relevant institutions is that Roma integration is included in all relevant sectoral policies as part of the long-term fight against social exclusion and poverty problems. In this sense, serious progress is made in relation to local policies. The municipalities recognize the problem and draw up their municipal action plans to implement the National Strategy. The following discussion was attended by the MPs: Krasimir Velchev, Evgenia Alexieeva, Pavel Shopov, Stoyan Mirchev, Nikolay Tishev, Hayri Sadakov, Valentina Naydenova and Todor Baychev. After the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights with 14 votes for the Roma integration strategy (2012 - 2020), No 702 -18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 June 2017, and attached to it the draft decision of the National Assembly. I will also read you the Decision: Project! DECISION under Administrative Monitoring Report 2016 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to Section VIII, p. 6 of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012) HAS DECIDED Administrative monitoring report 2016 for the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Kalfin. The report of the Committee on Health follows. Who's gonna fill us in on this report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u20	Dear Madam President, honourable Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Health on Administrative Monitoring Report 2016 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 702-00-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 June 2017. At its regular meeting held on 29 June 2017, the Health Committee examined and discussed the Administrative Monitoring Report 2016 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Hristina Hristova and Mrs. Ivanka Krasteva, advisors of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy, Mrs. Rositsa Ivanova, Secretary of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues at the Council of Ministers, Dr. Snezana Popovska, Expert at the Ministry of Health, representatives of word organizations in the field of health, of patient and non-governmental organizations. The Administrative Monitoring Report 2016 was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Ivanova. Mrs. Ivanova informed the members of the Committee on Health that the report takes into account the progress made in 2016 on the implementation of the measures of the Action Plan under the priorities of the National Strategy by each individual ministry, according to its competences. For the following year, a report made by indicator model, with trends for each individual measure and taking into account its effectiveness is planned to be provided to the Members of the National Assembly. The report focuses on the activities of health mediators and the functioning of mobile offices, which is financed by the state budget. All other initiatives shall be financed under European programmes and with the assistance of the Swiss Confederation and the Kingdom of Norway. It is focused on the development of health information campaigns with a marked preventive focus, activities for health-insecure pregnant women and mothers with a focus on minors, as well as on the positive practice of supporting scholarship-Roma students for medical training. The challenges encountered and difficulties regarding the unsatisfactory scope of preventive examinations among the Roma community are the result of: irregular health insurance; lack of choice of family doctor; low literacy and lack of health culture; lack of health mediators for work among the Roma community; inadequate attitudes among the Roma community for integration into general preventive activities for better health. A serious problem is health insecurity among the Roma population, which limits access to medical care. A large percentage of Roma consider the health absence of disease. Health becomes a concern only in the presence of symptoms and obstruction of consequences and therefore the concept of prevention and prevention of health is almost completely absent. There are a number of positive trends in Roma integration, and more national funding is needed to implement the measures of the Action Plan. Municipalities are starting to better plan, prioritize and monitor measures and activities to achieve real results. The members of the Commission made an in-depth analysis of the report presented by making specific notes, recommendations and conclusions: uneven coverage of the country's geographical territory by 215 mediators working in 115 municipalities and insufficient funding of the training of new mediators; difficult access to health information and low health culture in young Roma, leading to early pregnancy and practical realization of the principle that children should not give birth; strengthening the role of labour mediators in the employment offices of young Roma; overcoming the widespread anti-vaccinal attitudes; taking into account the role of both health mediators and personal physicians working in regional health inspections and non-governmental organisations; a number of technical inaccuracies in the report, which should not be allowed from the perspective of precision; missing the topic of the reproductive health of Roma, which should be in the focus of the report. In conclusion, Mrs. Ivanova informed the MPs that the report is also being sent to the European Commission, while the NGOs are preparing a parallel report in the shadows. The Secretary of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues expressed the opinion that there is political will and consistency in implementing measures for Roma integration. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Committee on Health proposed to the National Assembly to adopt an Administrative Monitoring Report 2016 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 " 2020"), No 702 "18," submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u21	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. The next report belongs to the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Who's gonna introduce him to us, guys? Mrs. Dukova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u22	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I will present the Commission's report on interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints. ♪ I can't believe on Administrative Monitoring Report 2016 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 702-00-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria on 15 June 2017. The Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints at a regular meeting held on 22 June 2017 discussed and discussed the Administrative Monitoring Report 2016 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 702 -18, submitted by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria on 15 June 2017. The report was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Ivanova, Secretary of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues at the Council of Ministers. During the presentation it was noted that the current Administrative Monitoring Report contains the results of the achievements achieved in 2016 by the institutions at national level according to the individual priorities, as well as information on the progress of the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration 2012. The results of the activities for implementation of the regional strategies and municipal action plans are set out in the Annex. The National Strategy applies an integrated approach to solving the complex nature of the multi-spectrum problems affecting vulnerable Roma people and disadvantaged persons from other ethnic groups. Roma integration policy is part of the policy to combat poverty and social exclusion. The information presented by the responsible institutions shows that Roma integration is included in all relevant sectoral policies, including thematic objectives in social inclusion, education and employment. The report presents the contribution of all institutions involved to the integration of the Roma community into the Bulgarian society. For this period, there are a large number of local initiatives implemented by municipalities and NGOs under all priorities, many partnerships, local groups, agreements and various mechanisms for coordination in work between institutions and civil organisations. Organizations working in the field of Roma integration participate in all stages of development, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of integration measures in the thematic groups of operational programmes and other international funding programmes and mechanisms, in working groups, in monitoring committees. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Anton Kutev, Snezhana Dukova, Daniela Daritkova and Nadia Klisurska. The discussion focused on the issues of health culture among Roma population, education, the search for other solutions to create sustainable employment of Roma people. The question was also raised about the lack of visible results of the implementation of the measures under the National Strategy for Roma Integration, despite the progress reported in the report. Some of the MPs expressed their support for the report and made recommendations for its optimization on the actual data, which do not give a clear idea on what basis the population is differentiated as Roma. On the basis of the presented Report and after the subsequent vote, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints with 9 votes............................................................................ and 6 votes..................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dukova. A report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. You have the floor of Dr. Ademov, President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on Administrative Monitoring Report 2016 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 702-00-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 June 2016. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting, held on 21 June 2017, discussed and discussed the Administrative Monitoring Report 2016 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 702-00-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 June 2016. The meeting was attended by Ms. Achavni Topakbashiyan and Mr. Nikola Petkov experts at the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues at the Council of Ministers, representatives of social partners and NGOs. The report was presented by Mrs. Topakbashian and contains the results of the achievements achieved in 2016 by the institutions at national level according to the individual priorities, as well as information on the progress of the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration 2012 - 2020. The Annex sets out the results of the activities for the implementation of regional strategies and municipal action plans. The scope of the competences of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy is the report on the progress under priority. The leading institution for achieving the objectives of this priority is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, guided by the principles of non-discrimination and providing conditions for equal opportunities and equal treatment of all Bulgarian citizens, regardless of their ethnicity, which is also part of the policy for combating poverty and social exclusion. The active policy for supporting socio-economic integration of ethnic minorities and other vulnerable disadvantaged groups on the labour market is implemented by the Employment Agency. In 2016 it was planned that 18 100 unemployed people of Roma origin, registered in the Departments of Labour in the country, will be included in activities to increase the employability and qualification, provide employment and promote their entrepreneurial culture. The number of persons covered in 2016 for the different activities in the plan is 30,757, which is 170% implementation of the annual plan. Of the total number of persons covered, 17 978 are women, 11 505 are young people up to 29 years of age. The persons involved in activities to improve their employability and qualification during the year are 11 334, with plan 7 500: - motivated for active behaviour on the labour market - included in individual and group forms for vocational education.. 5 167 persons; - included in training for professional qualification.. 764 persons. In implementation of the measure to ensure the employment of the Roma in 2016 are included in the employment of 19 380 people, which is 185% implementation of the annual plan. Most of the work started on the primary labour market was 13 610 people. According to programs and measures for employment and training are organized in 1950 people, according to the projects of the Operational Program "Human Resources Development" "3820 people." As regards the measure, 43 persons were included in the entrepreneurship promotion plan in 2016 in training to start and manage their own business. The Roma mediators serve the job seekers in DBT and perform specific activities.................................................................................................... In this context, mediators conduct information campaigns, individual and group meetings with inactive and discouraged persons on the ground, in neighborhoods and settlements served by DBT with a more compact Roma population, involved in holding meetings with employers, representatives of Roma NGOs and others. As of 31 December 2016, the Sanctions Committee of the United Nations Security Council decided to amend the list of persons and entities to whom the freezing of funds and economic resources should apply. 92 Roma mediators under the National Program "Activation of inactive persons" by DBT and their affiliates have activated and motivated registration in the labor offices 11 946 inactive and discouraged persons from the Roma ethnicity, of which 2 795 people have found their realization. In 2016, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3482 unemployed Roma youth aged up to 24 years are included in different forms of training and employment as follows: - in motivational training - 21 persons; - in training for professional qualification suppose 12 persons; - in employment............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In 2016, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2,673 young people up to 24 years of age have participated in Job Search Atelier, 199 young people up to 24 years of age have received individual consultation from case manager and assistance for contact with other institutions to overcome obstacles to starting work. For the reported period, the Employment Agency has organized and held 5 specialized labour exchanges aimed at the Roma community. They were attended by 431 job seekers. The measures set out in the priority "Entrepreneurship" in the National Action Plan 2015 - 2020 are implemented through the implementation of the tasks assigned. For example, on the task of increasing the employability and qualification of unemployed Roma with measure: Organization of training for obtaining professional qualification and/or key competence, 764 persons were included in 2016. Regarding the implementation of a measure: Support for conducting initiatives and campaigns with Roma organizations at local and national level in 2016 270 meetings were held with Roma leaders and organizations on the ground during planned 150 meetings. On the task of "Promoting Roma employment" with a measure: Promoting Roma employment through inclusion in programs and measures under the Employment Promotion Act (IPPC), the annual programmes under the National Employment Action Plan, the primary labour market and other projects and plans in the report take into account the following results: 1. Creating opportunities for labor realization of Roma in total 19 380 Roma are set up for work in 2016. 2. Provision of employment for labor mediators for activation of inactive Roma people, as well as activation of long-term unemployed persons, through the promotion of the labour mediatorship in 2016 is provided the employment of 92 unemployed persons who work as labor mediators in Roma mediators in the labour bureaus. The report shall also take into account the results of several specific projects under the HRD OP as additional measures, namely: 1. The project "Trainings and employment" aims at the integration of unemployed persons aged 29 years, registered at the employment offices, in employment with an employer in the real business or local self-government institutions through trainings tailored to the individual needs of the workplace and a subsidy for employment, including 3 766 persons included in 2016. 442 inactive and unemployed Roma participants aged 30 to 54 years incl. are included in project activities. 2. Under the project "Trainings and employment of young people" (the aim of which is the integration of unemployed persons up to 29 years of age, including, in 2016) 2980 inactive and unemployed Roma youth are included in activities under the procedure. 3. The project is a new opportunity for youth employment, a procedure that has facilitated the transition from education to employment of 3959 contracts with 3515 employers, with a total of 7146 unemployed persons up to 29 years of age. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Hasan Ademov, Milko Nedyalkov and Kalin Popovski. The discussion focused on the need to seek other solutions to create sustainable employment of Roma; the questionable effectiveness of the activities of Roma labor mediators; the lack of visible results of the implementation of the measures under the National Strategy for Roma Integration and despite the progress reported in the Report, the problems of the Roma community and the whole society with the Roma community continue to deepen. In conclusion, the discussion imposed the opinion that there are no visible results of the spending on the programmes and that the inefficiency of the current policy on this population and the decisive need to develop a new strategy should be recognised. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 11 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt an Administrative Monitoring Report 2016 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration 2012 - 2020 with an importer of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u25	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. On behalf of the importers, there is the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Siderov, in this Chamber you are the only chairman of a parliamentary group who showed his commitment and empathy to the Roma theme. Thank you. In accordance with the decision of the National Assembly of 1 March 2012 adopting the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration, the Council of Ministers adopted Decision No 325 of 15 June 2017. The current Administrative Moritoring Report and submitted it to the National Assembly. The report shall take account of actions to implement the 2016 Action Plan under the National Strategy. This is an administrative report which includes information received from ministries which have responsibilities in implementing the planned measures under the priorities of the Strategy, as well as from regional administrations. As a structure: the report presents the information on each of the six priorities of the strategy. Information on the implementation of regional strategies is provided in an annex outside the Report. The report covers measures with a significant impact on Roma inclusion, where possible, the results of which are presented in comparative chronological terms, illustrated and allowed to follow processes and trends in this direction. Integration policy has a multi-term nature and is part of the overall strategy for combating poverty and social inclusion. Annual reports show that efforts to ensure equal access to all public spheres continue and contribute to this are all stakeholders, including NGOs and Roma communities themselves. The report presents the contribution of all institutions involved to the integration of the Roma community into the Bulgarian society. Some of the main events in the different fields during the reporting period are presented. First of all, in the field of education. The adoption of the Law on pre-school and school education reflects changes in public development and meets the expectations of both participants in the system and society for a more quality and complete educational process. Under the Pre-school and School Education Act, the identification of children and students in groups and classes based on ethnicity is not permitted. For the first time a standard for civil, health, environmental and intercultural education was introduced in the Bulgarian school. This is Decree No 13 of 21 September 2016. The new proposal of the Regulation is the inclusion of intercultural education in the first high school stage in the class class class class class class class class class class, as well as within the full-time organization of the school day and pre-school education. Despite the efforts in this regard, there are still mass cases of poor Bulgarian language, dropping out of school, absence and others. There is a need for serious control in the implementation of the planned activities in terms of their effectiveness in achieving real results on the ground. Second, in the field of health. The established methods and approaches for field work in the cross-sector teams of municipal administrations, regional health inspections, medical specialists and institutions, NGOs and health mediators are indicated as significant success in 2016. Health mediators make a significant contribution to optimizing the scope of preventive programs among the Roma population and especially among young children. There are still challenges in working with vulnerable groups related to irregular health insurance, lack of choice of a general practitioner, low level of health culture, lack of health mediators for working in the Roma community. Third section of the Employment Sector. As a success it is pointed out the mobilisation of the efforts of all stakeholders to step up the Roma community in terms of integration of the labour market and the opportunities for work offered by the labor bureau. An individual approach is applied to the needs of these vulnerable groups on the labour market. The focus is the activation of long-term unemployed and economically inactive people. Despite the efforts made, the lack of activity and interest in the search for work prevails, which, in combination with low literacy and qualification, low motivation and mistrust, are among the main factors that create difficulties for the labor realization and integration of Roma. In the field of housing. With regard to improving the housing conditions of people living in separate neighborhoods, neighborhoods, ghettos in their accounts, municipalities point out that the most common are looking for a solution to the most pressing problems by providing water and electricity for all households, asphalting the streets, building new and repairing old pavements. The problem of illegal buildings continues to be up-to-date and often unable to solve only by local authorities. We need national government policy in this direction. A positive step through which to find a solution to existing problems is the development of a National Housing Strategy Project and national programmes for its implementation. In the area of rule of law and anti-discrimination, institutions and civil society organizations are conducting initiatives related to raising public awareness of the problems of Roma communities. In conclusion, the report shows that it is a set of targeted, well-preserved measures. The efforts and good partnership between the institutions are a key factor in achieving positive and sustainable results in meeting the objectives and priorities of the National Roma Integration Strategy 2012 - 2020. The past period shows that solving existing problems and achieving the objectives of integration policy requires a new approach, the availability of political will, consistent efforts, monitoring, economic growth, long-term planning is an effective use of financial resources. We are all convinced that Roma integration and long-term policy. However, it is not self-target, it is part of the policy of combating poverty and social inclusion in general. Unfortunately, there are unfinished tasks that are also mentioned in the report. The recommendations concern Roma integration. It must be included in all sectoral policies, including thematic objectives in social inclusion, education and employment. An important element for the implementation of integration policy is the work towards overcoming negative stereotypes and traditions. The national strategy has no targeted funding, no special means for its implementation. The funding of the activities is from the budget of the relevant ministries. Funding is also provided through European funds and other donor programmes. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! What has been achieved so far must be continued and developed. What we have not done must be well analysed and the necessary conclusions must be drawn to show what measures must be taken. Poverty affects not only the unemployed but also the workers, not only the Roma, but also all ethnic groups. Poverty can be overcome not only by the government, but by the whole society and not by aid, but by developing the economy and providing social assistance only against education and employment. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u27	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! I'll start with the National Council on Ethnic Affairs. When dealing with such an important issue in terms of ethnic issues, namely the Administrative Monitoring Report on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration, it is very good that the President of the Council on Ethnic Affairs is present. I am pleased with this and hope not only that it will be present, but also to address the opinions, recommendations and remarks expressed and to participate most actively in the discussion, first and foremost, on the question of how this Strategy will be implemented in the future, because so far there are no visible results from it. I'm sorry to say this, but I do. Now on the report. In this Report, we actually have a collection of some clerical reports. The report generally represents the contribution of all institutions involved to the integration of the Roma community into the Bulgarian society. This is a document that may have been well administered by hardworking and respected people who, conscientiously but formally, have done their job. They have presented what activities the responsible institutions and people have performed in the implementation of the Strategy. People must be proud of the work they've done. But it comes to my mind the wisdom of the family:.. Crazy works, mad does not stand!................ or if I can paraphrase it a little....................... We need it based on all these reported activities in the different ministries, in municipalities, in the country a comprehensive analysis on the problems of Roma integration............................................................................................. Are the expected results happening? If not, why aren't they happening? What are the obstacles? Without a critical analysis of what has been done so far to be presented to the Members of the National Assembly, we will have no idea whether the Strategy is being implemented or if we just pull the numbers off, as they say. Without such an analysis, we will not know what specific objectives and results to look for in the future and we will not know how to achieve them. I believe that if we come from this: if the activities under the Strategy are implemented, we can be lenient and accept the Report because they are formally really being implemented. But what are the results? From day to day better, from year to year worse. No one in this country can say that there is some visible progress in Roma integration in Bulgarian society. Therefore, if we have respect for ourselves as an institution, we will not accept the report in our proposed way, because it will further discredit our activity. We are already not so high in ratings, we will give a bad signal to the public that we treat a serious topic, which is part of the life of the Bulgarian society, which is very painful for this same society and is currently particularly up-to-date. I say hurtful and present because I mean the events of the last days in Asenovgrad, and before that in Katunitsa, Garmen, Orlandovtsi and everywhere else. If everything were so pink and the government adequately implemented their Roma attitude strategy, would there be such events as in Asenovgrad? I don't think so. Well, would the beatings on the doctors be there? Again, I don't think they'd be there. Believe me, we are playing with fire and it is only a matter of time before more serious and irreparable events take place if we so neglect the issues of Roma integration and if we accept everything that the Council of Ministers offers us in such an uncritical manner. If such events happen, it is clear that things are not going in the right direction, and while we formally accept reports that we call ambitious ones, we will not send them in the right direction. For me, the conclusions are that we have a Strategy, but there is no policy in Bulgaria that will lead to prevention of such cases as those quoted by me. There is no adequate policy aimed at integrating the Roma population into the Bulgarian society and making it possible. There is no policy to make it possible to prevent conflicts or to control them in their initial phase. I have a feeling that today's government, and they're actually yesterday's government, you're leading a power policy against the Roma. In this case, we need not a force, but a strong policy based on democratic, humane actions and solutions that will lead to problems being solved, not deepened. Relations between minority communities and the majority are not adequately managed by the current majority and they are not their priority. I'm going back to the report. He doesn't give us an analysis based on everything reported as actions and activities, what is the progress on integration, is it there or is it gone? And if there is, why does no one see it, and with each passing year an increasing percentage of Roma children are assigned to the army of illiterates, the unemployed, the poor, the marginalized, not to mention dropouts? Not to mention the lack of any health prevention that prevents diseases among this ethnicity, so that they do not weigh on the health system at a later stage, because, for a number of reasons, they do not pay health insurance. This National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration may not be the perfect strategy, but it seems to have a specific vision strategy, objectives, operational objectives. Sounds good, in general. It contains many good wishes, but the question is: can they and why have not they been turned into real politics so far? And if we want to show that we not only write beautiful strategies, make beautiful speeches and have good intentions, we have to answer the question: why are there no results? It's not my question, it's coming from our society. And there are no results because perhaps the government does not properly implement this Strategy in practice and treat the problem formally. I have implemented this Strategy as a priority in its part, I have implemented one of the six priorities, of course, at a lower level, and I have believed that this is really how I contribute to Roma integration, to this ethnicity. Here is the place to say that the report demonstrates a misunderstanding of the role of labor as a factor for the complete integration of the Roma population. Unreasonably low is the number of Roma who have been helped to start work. And it's not because the employment services aren't doing their job, it's because the approach to the problem is wrong. I know many things about this Strategy, including that in 2012, when it was adopted, it was supported by BSP in the face of the then parliamentary group of the Coalition for Bulgaria, with the understanding that such Strategy is necessary and necessary. Now I'm asking myself: isn't this strategy quite far from the people it's intended for? Because we have been reporting its implementation for five years with administrative monitoring reports for each of the past years. These reports each year resemble two drops of water and report progress, but why does no one see this progress? And, of course, perhaps the most important thing in order to successfully implement this Strategy is that we all have an honest debate here: where have we been wrong so far, what are the problems so far, and why are the operational, strategic goals getting away with what has been achieved? Why do we keep going like this, walking on a road without a way out? It is good that Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov as Chairman of the well-sounding structure is here in the National Assembly and, if he finds it necessary, he may propose changes to the Strategy. If his proposals are sound and adequate, we will support. Maybe in the debate we can get to concrete measures on how to implement the Strategy, so that there are positive results. I have a feeling that so far hundreds of millions have been spent, but with almost zero effect. Here is an example: according to the report 25 million. lv. are set aside for the literacy of illiterate Roma. What is the result of spending so much money? Have they become more grammatical Roma? Yes, you are! And that's just another million sank for literacy. I'll make a comparison that you won't like, but it's a fact. Before 1990 there was no Strategy for Roma Integration, but they were dozens of times more grammatical and more workable, more integrated than now. We are now spending millions and not only not achieving results, but also getting away irrevocably from integrating Roma into our society. The Roma community is a given, it is a resource that we will not have to use. They need to work for their literacy, qualification, employment and so on and so on for their integration into society, as it is modern to say now. I think there will be no debate now, as there was no adoption of last year's reports. There will be a vote, another administrative document will be adopted, another bureaucratic report, the problems will be swept under the table figuratively and next year, in the next report we will ask ourselves again: where did we go wrong? I will also tell you what conclusion we have reached together by discussing the Report with experts in the integration of minorities. The conclusion is that as a whole the monitoring report leaves the feeling of those who read it and analyze it that the Roma integration policy is realized with the idea that we have decades of peace ahead for Roma integration or, even worse, that everything is being done with the idea that there are some inexhaustible EU funds and other sources of funds that we will be able to use indefinitely. Neither is true nor the other. Unfortunately, the cruel truth is that Roma integration in Bulgaria is implemented with the wrong policies created by people who are far from the harsh reality and reality in the country. This introduces our society into delusions that we are making some progress in Roma integration, and that is not the case. All this makes me vote against the adoption of this report. This is how I recommend that the MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and the other parliamentary groups who are responsible for the problem of Roma integration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Do you have any lines, fellow Members? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Manev. The People's Representative Manoil Manev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, guests! I do not know why, when I come out to talk about the Report, in my first words I would like to address my colleagues who have a professional holiday today to the police of Bulgaria. I want to wish them a happy holiday, to them and to their families! Not to read from this tribune powdery and sugary congratulations from people who do not know what a police officer is and who is an officer of the Ministry of Interior! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u31	Please, Mr. Manev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u32	Okay. Let me get back to the subject, Mr. Chairman. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" On the topic, on the topic! "]] On the subject, I will tell you the following. Here just now, a colleague called on you not to accept the Report, a colleague who has most likely signed parts of the report for years and has submitted them as information because his duties required it; a colleague who then decided not to change anything in the Report, and now he does not like it. Okay, everybody has a right to like or dislike what they read. But the truth is this: the report shows the real situation at the moment. The report reflects what is happening. It is our duty in the parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria to know that this report can help us make decisions, take steps and do so. If someone doesn't want to do them and doesn't like them, they have to answer the question: what has he done so far? Why? Because in all the functions of accession and Roma integration there are three very important elements that we must comply with. First of all, I'd like to ask you a riddle to take home. Any one of you who can't answer what the words mean, chock, ligature, lacho... [[Heckling]] That's right, who can't answer those words, let's not deal with the topic of "Romas." Because one of the problems I have said is that for years, for decades measures have been proposed that are related to the accession of the Roma community. She, the Roma community, is made up of an awful lot of words that I said to you. There's at least ten more. And not knowing their problems, their way of life, and the general measures come to the results set out in the report. The second very scary problem, really scary, is that one part of the political parties in Bulgaria needs exactly the kind of Roma community we have at the moment, which is uneducated, illiterate, unemployed, hungry and poor, and which is not subject to the laws of this country. Why? Very easy to look at the results of the election sections in the Roma regions, and you answer the question quickly and easily. And the next thing that is also very important we cannot talk about the integration of the Roma population in Bulgaria when we are not talking about quick and effective penalties for breaking the laws in this country. Because only and only the rule of law to all citizens, its application without intercession, no phone calls, when there are any problems such as in Asenovgrad, for example, to the authorities of the police, prosecutors and others, makes us the same before the law. And if these three major problems are not drawn as conclusions from the results mentioned in the Report, which I repeat, reflects the absolute truth at the moment and we have no right not to accept it, because it is the result of the actions or omissions or interference of us politicians and many other people involved. We should not miss that organizations that issue dictionaries in gypsy language in Bulgaria are the main drivers of integration. If you're saying that a dictionary of gypsy language helps integrate, I won't agree. But they're there. And they also need to draw their conclusions about what exactly and how to do it. So, colleagues, I call on you to accept the report, but more importantly, it is important that each of us give ourselves a real and accurate account: what do we do and how will our children and grandchildren live in the future? This is related to the issue of Roma integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. [[Applause from GERB.]] - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u34	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Dear Mr. Manev, I have done the Strategy really, I mentioned it in my speech at a much lower level. I have done it very conscientiously, and I think I have contributed much more to Roma integration than some who make it talk. I have implemented the Strategy and the policies it lays down, because the job of a civil servant is to implement the state policy in any sphere in which it works. However, the role of politicians is to define these policies. In the report, which is called the Report, I did not really see what the policies were that would lead to some visible results of the whole work. Every time I give you this as an example. If we go outside in front of the National Assembly and ask 10 people, no matter what, by chance met: "Is there any progress in Bulgaria on Roma integration? They'll tell you there's no such thing. Because it gets worse from day to day, understand this thing. You'll probably take the reports now. [[Noise and lines.]] Don't scream from there, get up and give your opinion on the Strategy and the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u35	Please don't call from a place, you're entitled to speeches, lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u36	If we close our eyes now, yes, good is the report, I do not blame the people who have worked on either the report or the implementation of the state policies under this Strategy. But what's the score, again? If we accept the report now, won't we ask ourselves again next year why we are at this stage, why is Asenovgrad happening, why are the other events happening, why are the doctors beating the same Roma? Because 90% of the beatings on doctors are precisely from this ethnicity. Any questions to which in this Report I find no answer and you will not be able to tell me the answer. Maybe you'll answer the lines, but I don't know what you'll say. You will probably support this report, but what will be the result of all this work? [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, I'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u37	Let's hear it. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Manev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u38	My fellow Member, I didn't mean that you didn't carry out your duties as a civil servant. I meant that a large number of civil servants, especially in executive positions, respond to the problems of accession and Roma integration in this way: I have carried out my duties diligently and point. And the people on the field because you really were a man on the field, were expected and expected to give the ideas, to give the real proposals on the administrative line, so that decisions can be made, because that is the order of a state's management by those on the field to come initiatives. That's what I meant. As for all the other words you've said here, I'm going to be infinitely brief. From now on, I publicly say to everyone that with someone who can't answer me what those words mean, I won't talk to him about Roma problems. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u39	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Christov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today we are discussing an important document - a document that is not exaggerated to say that it concerns Bulgarian national security; a document which should take into account what Bulgaria's life-reliant issues have done, concerning its demographic structure, and, let us say, even more clearly the civilization future of Bulgaria. What do we see here? We see a low level of debate, we see a lack of simple expertise and understanding of what this is about. The most important thing I see is the lack of simple concern about a problem which concerns the immediate, I stress the immediate, up to 15 years of the future of this country. See how only the report begins at a purely linguistic level: The National Strategy applies an integrated approach to solving the complex nature of the multi-spectrum problems affecting vulnerable Roma people and disadvantaged persons from other ethnic groups. It's called... [[Noise and lines.]] When I speak, no one speaks in the hall! [[(Radio.) Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u41	Mr. Christov, let's not exchange functions, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u42	Then join your duties, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u43	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u44	Firstly, the report suffers from structural problems, it suffers from structural problems, because there is no clear approach to the problem as such. The problem of the so-called gypsy group in Bulgaria, I do not use the term "Roma" for reasons known to the specialists, has set wrong priorities, hence you have wrong solutions, hence you have the results you have, that is to say none. They are expressed in the following. First, the problem of the Gypsy minority in Bulgaria depends, of course, on the issues related to education, but they are not the central issue, they are the consequence. The problem with the Gypsy minority does involve health problems, but they are a consequence, not a cause of the other two. Problems related to the Gypsy minority really concern the problems related to housing policy and accommodation, but they are the result of the other problem. What is the main problem with gypsies in Bulgaria? Their complete civilization exclusion from civilized Bulgarian society for the last 25 years. Everything else is a consequence, dear colleagues. It states that 25 years ago this minority was integrated into Bulgaria just-god, and with the carrot and the staff, the Bulgarian poor socialist state managed to make this population so that it could be with decent health, educational and, above all, notice, work status. What happened 25 years ago? These people were thrown out of the reforming Bulgarian economy, that is, the other name of the liquidation of the industry in Bulgaria. In this way they were deprived of elementary labor... and hence social status. From then on comes everything else: the encapsulation of this community, its poverty, its gypsy ghettos, the transformation of gypsy ghettos into enclaves of crime and, notice, enclaves threatening Bulgarian national security. I don't know if colleagues in this hall know that the largest gypsy ghetto in the Balkans and May in Europe, is a ghetto in which the outbreak of Islamic fundamentalism in Bulgaria is located? Do you think how long this will last? How long will the situation continue, where the structure of the residual Bulgarian population in this country, which is 5.5 million, for specialists, they know very well what the Gypsy minority in Bulgaria is about 1 million. The structure of this gypsy minority, notice, in young and middle age, is in 50 percent and more compared to the so-called state-owned people "Bulgarians," how long do you think this thing will go on like this? And two, which is very important. While we're here playing strategy, which is nothing but a pull-over number, at the same time there, in these ghettos a bomb is roaring, and this bomb is starting to explode, more and more often. In this work there is a pattern for which he has eyes to see, and who has the competence that I do not see. Next, I don't know if you've noticed that countries and societies are detonating from within precisely with the presence of such ready-made explosive material. So when we talk about these things, it will become clear to you that the future of relations between Bulgarians and Gypsies is not in favor of the Bulgarians. This is where this parliament needs to think. From a leading nation as it was 120 years ago. The Bulgarians called them the Bulgarians, the Bulgarians gradually shrouded as saffron leather from Macedonia, from Pomoravito, from Belomorie, from Eastern Thrace, from Dobrudja. They are now shrinking within old Bulgaria. The Bulgarians shrink and flee literally, such as exodus of the Bible, not just from different territories of the country, they concentrate in several major cities or flee abroad. The exodus through Terminal 2, as a metaphor, is simply a rescue from this territory, notice the territory that fed four empires! At this time, the Gypsy population, which you notice, here I want to be clearly understood, is the victim of this process, of the process of disassembly of Bulgaria... When you have problems with your gypsies, it is an indication that you have problems with your own society, with your own industry, with your own country. Who authorized, for example, the settlement of huge gypsy masses in cities, absolutely out of control, that the gypsies should not? Who authorized the creation of illegal structures on the territory of these ghettos to not be the gypsies? Who authorized the introduction of drug trafficking and organised crime into these ghettos, and this is known by the competent authorities, is it the gypsies? Who allowed in the territory of these ghettos to be legal and illegal, there is very well known, fundamentalist activity..........................that the gypsies are not?.................................................... Gypsies are just donors, victims and consequence of this problem. When you have a problem with gypsies, you have a problem with yourself, with your own vitality as a civilization. As the Albanians became a cappul-detonator for blowing up a country to the west of us, it is called Yugoslavia, so the gypsies will become a cappul-detonator for the blast of the Bulgarian state, while here we play games, how smart we are and toss each other from the left and from the right. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, you're not at the level of the problem. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u45	- What's the line? Do you have a line or a statement, Mr. Siderov? Line up, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To get to the level of the problem. Dear Mr. Hristov, I'm glad you've been repeating things I've been saying and writing for 20 years. You've reached this level, thank you. So you're an astute, intelligent person, I have no doubt. The point is that the pathos you are talking to now from this tribune is a repetition of words, and much more patheticly said by me and by my colleagues since 2005, dozens, perhaps hundreds of times. You are now finding problems we have talked about, which you, your fellow partyers have attacked me as they have not attacked, I do not know what other enemies. All these years, I've been pointed out, vilified and vilified, just because I was dealing with this problem, just because I was putting it, just because I was saying things like you, the dangers of the non-integration of the gypsy population. Only now you come here as the one to point the finger at what the problem was and who was on the level. Don't be so edgy because you don't have an audience of freshman students ahead of you, you have an audience of people who are in politics, some of them much, much more time than you; people who have gone through such trials that you, if you go through, don't know if you will survive. So be not only more condescending, be more understanding that these issues we are talking about are really very important. These questions require a state-of-the-art attitude. It is we of the United Patriarchs who are with this approach of state, demand, restrictions. Anything else could be a topic of debate. That's the kind of debate they've been having. Usually, this topic is referred to as a tender one, as a delicate one, and I do not know what else is better not to talk about. But we've talked, I've talked. I have nothing to worry about over the years. I have spoken and placed it, and I have written. I have hundreds of texts on this. I've been attacked, threatened, including a physical dispute about my life because of what I've written. So be more level you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]] Any other lines? Mr. Hristov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u48	Mr. Siderov, I didn't expect this from you. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]] And that's why I'm going to be condescending. [[Noise and lines.]] When you have no arguments essentially, you have arguments Ad hominem to the personality. I've expressed issues of substance, you're dealing with my humble persona. I don't think she cares about the audience. The second thing is whether I give speeches to an audience of students or to an audience of Bulgarian MPs, it is not bad for the audience of Bulgarian MPs to rise to the level of some student audiences. Third, what we need to say clearly, I continue...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u49	Mr. Hristov, I ask you for the third time to talk about the level of Bulgarian MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u50	...I continue to insist that it is an extremely important issue concerning Bulgarian national security. And in that regard, Mr. Siderov, we agree with you. It's about... [[Noise and lines.]] Well, I'm sorry, my U.N.N.N. is a little less than yours. It is a national problem, and I do not see why there is really no unity on the national issue? This is the big problem, so when we talk about adopting this Strategy, and I will end it, one more time I say: it deals with the investigation and not with the reason. Secondly, it deals with the healing of these consequences without being able to cure the underlying cause, and the main reason is called, colleagues, the intriguing inclusion of the minority. However, this concerns a perfect other structure of the Bulgarian economy, concerning a completely different preparation of what is called the capital increase for this economy. And now we have fire measures that we really need to take, because really the ghettos are going to blow up, but from there comes the bigger problem of medium-term, sustainable, regardless of the political regime that will come, strategy on this issue. That is what is important and I want to be understood correctly. Otherwise, do you remember that wonderful film by the famous Russian director Sunstroke? Shortly before they sunk the Russian palace into the sea, one of the main characters was asking himself questions: "How did we let all this happen? " [[(Replyings and calls:) Who brought them down by the palaces? Tell me!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mrs. Snezana Dukova first, then Mr. Vejdi Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u52	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I have to tell you that I did not get up because I have a dozen pages written by someone to read them well, nor did I become about what was actually done, because I agree with many things that opposition colleagues said, and the colleagues who said from the parliamentary group of the Patriotic Front and GERB. I got up because the Deputy Prime Minister was first present on the topic discussed by the National Assembly every year. The high acceptance status of these monitoring reports really needs to be changed from the point of view of what is being served from the hall, and from the point of view of it when you draw dirty shirts, look at the beam in your own eye, not the straw in the other side. I stood up for this because the existential lecture that the professor gave, otherwise deeply respected by me, we need to know that speaking art is the great mastery of dialogue to speak, but to be able to listen too. That's not gonna happen with lectures. With just one sentence: because the integrated approach in this policy must be really long-term, and we must humble ourselves from all directions I would like to say that sometimes the silence in this House defines it, and it speaks a lot, even of people like me who are not professors, even if the speaker ends up nailing the House. And now a little bit on the subject. I would like to say that I expressed a very strong opinion when the Commission, on which I am Vice-President, on civil organisations and complaints examined this report. This is not my first speech in the years, and I believe that there are certain reasons for this, and otherwise the Monitoring Report is quite analytical, but it lacks some visible things to make it clear, although it is not up to the four representatives who work and summarize these references to the various ministries. I would like to say that the educational process and all that must be done in this territory is an indicative measure of what should be done in this register of any sectoral policy. The second big problem is that the standard for civil education, which will be published and which was articulated from the stands, very clearly refers to intercultural education as a topic. No one here has said that in this regard, not only our political actions and the state things that need to be done must enter any kind of religion, because this population is saying all kinds, all faiths, because this population is very quickly joined to religion. The third thing I want to say is that this mechanism is for an integrative approach. For years, I have seen for the first time so many ministers gathered in one place expressing their state policy on this approach, because without this, things will have no realization in any vulnerable group, it was a Roma group, as well as mediators to send to this group, however many loud words to speak from this tribune. The low motivation is true, but it is being raised, it is being trained, and when we do, the integration of the labour market will be stronger. I would like to share one of my concerns, which my colleague, Professor. Christ articulates from this tribune. It's not the Roma's fault, it's who? These ghettos that have formed, which have begun to diminish with our government, are also bothering me, but registered to 400 people at one address?! When this legislation does not change, we cannot react, colleagues. When they are registered, they cannot be removed from where they are. In this sense, we are not going to talk about stereotypes, but we need to be serious and responsible, and really at the level of this deep problem. Why is he deep? And why can't we get it right from the stands? Because there is no indicative measure, a monitoring measure that can measure the number of this population, which is not legitimized as such, but is Bulgarian, and we can never and in any way measure this, because state policy is integrative and it cannot define it as such a population according to the "Roma" or any other. So in this sense the diagrams will be complex. I have a few suggestions. We have to make such criteria, no matter what it costs us, whatever we have to do. Without this rock, we can't give a real result of what's happening. We're gambling in a dark room. We can't have a measuring unit in this direction and it's defined as one. My second proposal is a clear graphics and a map of location. Regional and municipal administrations must be very involved. And I believe that what the government is doing as a serious step in administrative reform will also be able to calm this process and make it happen. Do not look at working with this population as a lack of visible results. There are, but they're not bright. I would like to make them bright, and they will only be as I have said in my proposals. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u53	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dukova. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u54	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! I wondered by listening to you, since I am also part of the minorities in Bulgaria, whether to take part in this issue. It must be a very serious question for one simple reason that for 70 years we have been talking about how to integrate, especially this Roma minority, or I do not know how it is more correct, I see nothing offensive to say and gypsy. Seventy years almost, since Comrade Zhivkov's time, we have been funding projects, spending millions, creating gypsy barons and not yet integrating this minority. Mr. Hristov, I was just wondering if I should go out because I seemed to feel very low in this parliament, but I decided to give you an answer. In this Parliament, I hope that there are enough decent and smart people. Personally, I communicate with a lot of them. If we measure ourselves in titles, for the first time, I will allow myself to say: I am an academic at two academies, one is in France, the other is in Russia. I am a correspondent of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, I am a doctor of three international academies, but why do I not mention this often? In life, it's very important to be quality people, like people. These are our titles and titles. There's a real case of acad. Dechko Uzunov has a bright memory, in Paris, when he was led by the embassy to open the exhibition of Picasso in the Salt House. And, of course, with elbows, claws, a lot of people get to Picasso and introduce him to Kidko Uzunov. Marin Dimitrov, cultural attaché, says: "Mr. Picasso, this is the great Bulgarian artist, hero of socialist work, winner of the Dimitrov Prize, prof. acad. Picasso turns around and says: "Nice to meet you, Picasso! " It is very important to have names. There's a little problem to solve. Yeah, you're right here. The state hasn't done its job in years. If we blame ourselves on who did what for the Roma minority, well, everybody did. In the election: didn't the votes buy them all? Didn't the unpaid power turn a blind eye to everyone in the station? When they cut down the trees in the woods, didn't we turn a blind eye? It's not fair, then, for all of us to attack from this tribune instead of uniting ourselves around an important problem. I think the Deputy Prime Minister once slipped up to say a nice phrase. Look, when we're all equal before the laws, they'll integrate. It's gonna be hard for money too. Equally before the law, no mercy for the illegal, no mercy for stealing, no mercy for illegal cutting of forests, no mercy for selling votes in elections. If that's what we're all doing here, there's no way they're not going to integrate. No way! So for one stick, for another nothing!? Not even a carrot. Colleagues, there is no need for such a long debate in my opinion. Sorry, I'm not an expert. You will say as specialists, but apparently another 70 years we will pay money to integrate the Bulgarian population. They are Bulgarian citizens. There's nothing to share. Sopata equals for every citizen. Anyone who doesn't like it, the world is a big one....takes his passport and leaves, and pays taxes to another country. But as long as taxes are paid here, all equal before the law, me and you and the Gypsies and the Turks. Yeah, the Turks integrated, I think. For one simple reason: humble people, hardworking. We have built with the Trud Forces and the panel socialism, today we are building the good capitalism. We're working. Tobacco breeds people. They're gorbets. That's how they'll integrate, they'll work hard, but by the legal rules. Enough with the money. Every time: how to integrate them? Equal before the law. Yesterday I saw a movie about pickpockets. We sit there and say, "Hey, what kind of people are there?" Well, a head fight, how's he gonna steal? A guy's gonna work 10 years to buy a TV, this guy steals, and we forgive him for stealing. What do you mean?! They won't integrate. And I wouldn't integrate in this situation. Let's unite, colleagues, really. Let's make some rules. These rules to work, to be valid, and all to be honest Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? First the People's Representative Hayri Sadakov, after him Mrs. Zhekova. [[Reply.]] No one has expressed themselves by the Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, so excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u56	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The year for which the report is presented is 2016. In fact, the majority of the period of implementation of the Roma Integration Strategy has expired. The effects that have also been recorded in the committees, and today we are listening to everyone in this House, are close to zero or small, too small. A strategy must have long-term effects, must give real benefits and, in fact, to include this community, we must change the way this Strategy is implemented. Integrity has no measurement unit either in the Strategy or perhaps in general, but we see the integrity of the Roma community all around us. We see on the field what it is, we see the effects of working on the address of this community. We can even see here in Parliament how integrated the Roma themselves are.. what percentage of our parliament is represented by themselves. So these people are certainly not waiting for loud words, very well-made documents, but waiting for real action and they depend on us, on the state, depending on how we apply them. If we look at order by order in the sector of Education, there may be the biggest gaps. In health care, we have seen some of the measures that have produced results - health mediators, other measures that have been mentioned. They have actually given their effects on the ground, but the most part of the Strategy and of our actions, which should be directed and reversed, is in the sector "Education." If these people are not well prepared educationally enough, they will not give their effect and will give resistance in the other sectors in which the Strategy is aimed both in health care and in the labour market and elsewhere. The commitment of all the other sectors to the sector "Education" to have mutual dependence on the commitments of the Roma is very important. When they receive any goods, they must have the commitment to be responsible enough for the education sector. So whether this Strategy should be changed, whether a new Strategy should be written, whether it should be applied in detail, the answer should be found here today or next year. But we need to find an approach that gives different results. At the moment, the results are not good. In general, it supports a special strategy for the community and implements it in practice, but today it will not support and vote against the Father for the implementation of this Strategy, because the facts say the results are not good. Therefore, at this stage, we cannot support such a Report, and we insist that we work more closely in order to have more visible results, because at this stage the results, colleagues, are not visible. We will vote against and we will monitor how the rest of the Strategy is being implemented by 2020. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Sadakov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, dear Mrs Jekova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u58	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I will start with the press release of the government office on the Monitoring Report: The monitoring report takes into account progress. For 2016 on the implementation of the National Strategy. What kind of progress are we talking about here? We need each of us to put our hand on the heart and say that this integration failed. Since 2004, when we started writing to each other strategies that are full of democratic terms and hollow phrases inside, the first strategy was for the integration of students from Roma minorities in education since 2004, the Decade of Roma Inclusion started 2005 - 2015 and we are now talking about Strategy by 2020. How many years have passed since then and what is the result? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The result is tragic. I will return the subject of the Monitoring Report, just a second, to continue with what I want to say. Why did we fail? I return to the press release by respecting in the field of education: In the field of education as a positive result the introduction of a standard for civil, health, environmental, intercultural and so on education has been reported for the first time in the Bulgarian school. Dear colleagues, 21 000 students this school year did not go to school. 99% of them are from the Roma community.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u59	How did you count it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u60	What kind of education are we talking about when they're not going to school? Since we can't get them to enter school and just today, when the protest of the Ministry of Interior officials, we heard about the measures. I thought we were going to keep public order in every settlement with the employees of the Ministry of Interior.! Today, the employees of the Ministry of Interior have new responsibilities, even though their remuneration will not be increased. They're going from house to house...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u61	Please, on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u62	...to send the kids to school. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] But let's get back to the point. Regarding monitoring, which we have several times talked about, the Monitoring Report. If you've bothered to open... Can we extend the time?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u63	Yeah, yeah. You're gonna have to extend the time. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u64	If you have bothered to open the page of the National Council on Ethnic and Demographic Issues and see the Activity Report of the National Council on Ethnic and Demographic Issues for 2016, you will read a wonderful project that is protected, and it is called: "Development and implementation of a system for monitoring, evaluation and control of the National Strategy for Roma Integration. The contract on this project was concluded on 31 March 2015 and was implemented by the end of 2016. Now, in mid-2017, since we are reporting this Monitoring Report, why wasn't this Project presented to us? Why weren't we introduced to this project?! Here's the meter. Since such a monitoring and evaluation system has been developed, why didn't we see it in this Monitoring Report?! In conclusion, I'm only going to say one last thing. Integration allows for any personal choice, subject to agreed rules of tolerance, respect and existence. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u65	Thank you, dear Mrs Jekova. Are there any lines? Mr. Manev, do you have a line? Mr. Philip Popov after him.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague! I see that the expert opinion is still beginning to take power in this room. [[Laughter and excitement.]] No, I'm not kidding. The co-worker is most likely familiar as a city councilman...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u67	Mrs. Zhekova's name is!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u68	Mrs. Zhekova, I apologize. Most likely as a city councilman and so on knows the problems and talks about them professionally. I just have one question, if you want to discuss it with her. Would you tell me who created these ghettos after all, because in this room we talk about this a lot, but nobody says it? Could it have been created by a Ministerial Decree of 1958? Is it possible that someone is also responsible as heir to those who created these ghettos to work in them for real? But that's not the point. The most important thing is something else. In my opinion, perhaps you should mention what is the biggest problem of the community.. that when someone succeeds in overcoming segregation, division, or whatever you call it, and complete secondary, higher education, realized, achieved results, the first job he seeks to do is to hide from the community and say that he is not a member. And we can't show the good examples. That's one of the biggest problems. I suggest you discuss it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. Mr. Popov, second line. Third line.. People's representative Julian Angelov will not be able to have a fourth line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In general, I agree with what the colleague mentioned. However, a strategy is such a document that it should solve at least in the short and medium term a particular problem. This Strategy itself does not really fight the hearth of this problem. And here I'm going to do one thing, it's like treating a sick person. The Bulgarian society in Bulgaria has a disease, it is sick. However, we are not fighting the root cause through this Strategy, but we are fighting the consequences. It's like a bronchopneumonia patient getting aspirin to lower his temperature. There's no antibiotic, otherwise, in this strategy. We are not struggling with the real problem with the gypsies in Bulgaria, and there is also a solution, there was an antibiotic, and it was well applied. It's called economics and work. When they had a job, when Bulgaria's economy worked, and in the recent past 20 years ago, there was no such problem. But now they don't have a job and, of course, there are all the other reasons that we're trying to fight with an absolutely crappy one, not to call it a Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. The third line is the People's Representative Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u72	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting how BSP forms similar reports and philosophy for solving problems related to gypsies over the years, including DPS, and during Stanishev, and during Oresharski, how they voted, including the allocation of funds. All of a sudden today they're against it! Suddenly they knew there was a problem! Who created the problem with these people who live in Bulgaria? Some of your representatives call them "malcinity." In Bulgaria, gentlemen, no recognised minorities have ethnic groups. And you should know that when you speak from this tribune. And the other thing I'm going to add. Where's the problem coming from? September 9th, 1944. There are 100 thousand in Bulgaria. Gypsies; 10 November 1989 Six hundred thousand! Who moved them, settled them in the villages, who broke the Bulgarian villages with their settlement and destroyed them? Who did this? Your party! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] You destroyed the Bulgarian villages because you inhabited this population and made cities from the villages! Nowadays the villages in Bulgaria are in this state because of you! And I'll add one more thing. You seem to have forgotten the first years of democracy: whose electorate were they and who made them do what they wanted in the slums? Then you stood by not being disturbed because they voted for you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So when you talk about the problems with the gypsy population in Bulgaria, turn the pages back and see how your party settled and displaced them, how it gave them apartments for many children, how it gave them aid! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] A hundred thousand. You made it 600,000. For 45 years! You created the problem with your fictional comintern solutions! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u73	You have the floor for the dot, Mrs. Zhekova. If you can get back to the Report, it'll be fine.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u74	Dear colleagues! I guess you only listen to your own voices. What I said... [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u75	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u76	...is that each of us in this room should put our hand on your heart and admit that we failed in integration. All of us! We're talking about all the strategic documents in these years. What I want to tell you is that you are making a big mistake constantly going back to the past. We are now 2017. The problem is a big one. We must go to solve it together and with consensus in this House. That's basically it. And when we write these strategic documents, let's write three lines, but let's do them! Not to write 200 pages that don't mean anything! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. Are there any other statements? Here you go. After the procedure in the manner of conduct I will give a recess of 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure in the manner of conduct relates to the reply made by my colleague, who had nothing to do with the subject that we are discussing today. I understand that the ceiling of the analysis is limited to what was done by BCP and BSP respectively. Dear colleagues, I ask you to do what my colleague Hristov explained: be at a higher height at least in this discussion. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u79	Thank you. The photo exhibition will be opened in the northern lobby. I am Bulgarian, by the photographer Radoslav Parvanov. It is part of the National Project, which presents the beauty of the Bulgarian, the romance of our national costumes and the magic of Bulgarian nature. All MPs are invited to attend, as are you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Let's make a break, and in 30 minutes we'll continue with the speeches. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u80	We are continuing the plenary sitting, honourable Members. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. The people representative Volen Siderov has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Group of the United Patriarchs will support the report without conducting a linguistic analysis. It could be written much better, but this is a report, and it could be written much better for a period in which we do not have a representative in the executive power. I will refrain myself and explain why I am holding back. As has already been said, for many years I have been dealing with this topic, but I have convinced myself of something very clear: politics is a field of action, politics is not a literary club, it is not an intellectual border in which to debate, give our wits and keep everything at the same level. Here it was noted before the break that the so-called Roma integration.......................... has achieved almost nothing........................................................................ With findings, things can't be solved. The findings do not make sense to be made by this tribune, and it makes sense to unite, including the parties that are in opposition, about what can be done. We, the United Patriarchs, do not divide Bulgarian citizens by ethnicity or religion, this is a definite view that I have always observed, despite the unwarranted attacks that I have received. Now is exactly the time to show that we are exactly such people. We do not divide Bulgarian citizens. For me it is even strange to talk about the National Strategy for Roma Integration. Why not talk about the National Strategy for Integration of Armenians, Jews or other ethnic groups? Why is there such a strategy? It is maintained, supported by international organizations and in the beginning this issue in Bulgaria is rushing towards publicity by external factors always. The aim for me has been clear over the years, but it is a theoretical question to break the Bulgarian society, to hit its identity and Bulgaria to be a weak, subordinate and colonized state. The Patriot Party, I hope that all parties will become patriotic in Bulgaria already, we have been just about the opposite to Bulgaria being well placed, strong, with a good economy, with the same standard and the same state approach to all citizens. Here is the key to the topic we are discussing today. We cannot solve issues of folksychology, ethnic characteristics of one group or another, but we say clearly: all citizens of Bulgaria are full citizens. It is not right, even constitutionally not right, to separate some of them and say: now we will start making strategies and taking care of this community. What are we Patriots for? If the law is applied properly, it has not been applied over the years back in which the parties have ruled here, but I will not go back to that, that is not the question, the question is ahead what can be done if the law is applied if the Constitution is respected, it says that primary education is mandatory, but that is not required. If the state at all its levels is in place and requires every citizen to do so, I am not talking about communities, because this is wrong, incorrect in the first place, every citizen, parents should be obliged to fulfill the Constitution, their child should finish at least primary education. Otherwise, whoever didn't do it is a violation of the Constitution. When you have a violation of the law, there must be a penalty. Those who do not pay their taxes, electricity, water and all other obligations must have sanctions. Whoever builds an illegal building must have sanctions. It's not discrimination, it's respect for equality, the rule of law. For example, if I want to build a house in St. Alexander Nevsky's Square, they won't let me. But in Bulgaria there are thousands, thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of buildings that are illegal. Why they were admitted, we're not going back. The question is what can be done from now on. And here I can now tell you that I have hope, since the United Patriarchs are in power here stands the man who can act practically on this issue. Of course, if he is allowed to act if he is not involved in nonessential matters, fictional scandals, and so on, other media manipulations. I am sure that Deputy Prime Minister Simeonov will do what he needs to do, as this is in his portfolio. The report is until 2016, we are now 2017 and we will see with our eyes that things can happen in this direction, without, of course, no discrimination, without any double standards, just for the law to apply to everyone. That's the guy who's gonna do it. And from here we have to be sure that the next report, which can be written and better, will help in this regard, literaryly, will reflect much more progress than ever before. So far, the ruling parties and the ruling governments have refrained, to say it softly, diplomatically, to apply the law equally to everyone in Bulgaria. What considerations have been made here by some colleagues. This must never happen again. That is the point and hope that there will be a society in which there will be no groups outside society that are outside the civilization model that are outside the rules of living in a country. The guarantee is our participation in power. That is why we have taken up this responsibility, which is why we bear the negatives of this responsibility. And now, although it may seem illogical, my colleagues will support the report because this report is part of the government's activities. The government is a government in which we are involved, and we will continue to be there to stimulate things to happen. Politics is a practice, a field of action. With this I will conclude, and with the assurance that on this topic the United Patriarchs will be acting, not speaking. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. [[Applause from OP.]] Are there any lines? I won't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My statement was triggered by one of the patriots who, with cave anti-communism, explained how the gypsies had grown from 100,000 to 600 thousand. As if the Bulgarian Communist Party had entered the houses and created Gypsies. That's just funny. I am from the town of Pazardzhik, where there is a very large gypsy population, but I have worked and I remember how it was with socialism. In the Labour Inspectorate in Sofia I worked where there was a special Order of the Council of Ministers No 146, where, first, the children are required to attend school. There were sanctions if they... [[Reply from the O.P.: And now it's there.]] Except they don't. Secondly, all the gypsies were wanted and settled in, that was the difference. Then there was a country that followed the laws and was executed. That's why there wasn't so much gypsy crime, because gypsy crime is a socio-economic consequence, because these are people who, a lot of them, have a lower education, with a lower qualification, and there was a GUSW, when it created in its ranks people who were getting the jobs of welders, masons, plasterers and so on, and found jobs. GUSW is gone, at the moment the state is not going to apply our Constitution and the laws that must necessarily go to school, and that is why I think it is necessary, Academician Sendov raised the question of creating educational labor forces, because it is really mandatory for primary education, and when you do not go to school, there should be sanctions. The basis of all these problems with gypsies is that they do not have the appropriate training as education and as crafts and as professions. Either way... [[SIGHS]] Don't replicate me if you have anything, then you will speak!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u84	Please, Mr. Pawnov. Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u85	If you don't like something, that's another question, but there's another opinion, which, because you're Democrats, you should listen to it. In any case, these people should be given education and profession, which can be done by restoring and restoring the functions of GWW and restoring these labor-educational troops. Such a proposal will also be made to the Minister of Defence, because GUSW is currently at the Regional Ministry, and should move to the Ministry of Defence and then this idea can safely be realized. This is one of the exits to be adapted to the Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u86	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. Are there lines? The line is Mr. Toma Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Pawnov, I have understood your concrete measures as a reenactment of what was during communism, as reenactments of the Liberation of Bulgaria are being made, people go to Shipka, change their clothes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u88	Socialism.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u89	Now you want to do a reconstruction and thus solve the problem of Roma integration. Integration means inclusion into common value and common cultural foundation. This problem is cultural. He's neither class nor race. This problem is cultural. However, the problem is that we do not have a common cultural foundation in this House. Your party confesses an ideology with whose principles we have nothing in common. Nothing to do with it! Perhaps the disintegration of the Gypsy minority is a symptom of our common disintegration because for 45 years you have destroyed the fundamentals of Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian nation through the ideology of communism. If Roma integration in communism were extremely successful, it wouldn't fall apart for two years after 1990. It wouldn't fall apart, it would still be sustainable by now. Why did you disappear for one year in this integration? One more thing because you were praising and how beautiful 1989 was. Well, if it was nice, why did your party take down Todor Zhivkov and one month after that turn him off when it was so nice? You have assessed the communist regime with this act and Roma integration will not happen the way you have done it. Until we reach a common consensus regarding the value foundation in Bulgaria, there will be not only integration of Roma, but of the whole Bulgarian society, because there are disintegrated people from the Bulgarian ethnicity even. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Are there any other lines? Here you go. Here you go, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bikov, it is difficult to argue with a handsome and smart person, because they know everything, only it is not a cultural problem, but, well, I said, socio-economic. This integration fell apart because, after 1990, mass privatization began, where the people who worked in metallurgy, in the chemical industry, in mining, remained on the street.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u92	Where do you fuck him? Where do you care?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u93	This is where the problem came from. Socialism didn't have unemployment, if you remember. There was a shortage of labour, workers were brought in from Poland, Vietnam, Cuba, Angola. There was a shortage of jobs and then there was no problem for gypsies to work. After the so-called "democracy" came with a breakdown of our economy, that's where the Roma problems came from. If they have jobs and education, they will not come to this problem. It's not a cultural, it's a socio-economic problem, and that's the only way to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u94	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. For the next speech, the people's representative Tanner Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are talking about a Strategy for Demographic, Ethnic Issues and Roma Integration. I remember the years 2001, 2002, 2003, when we were preparing such strategies in regional governments, both on demographic and ethnic issues, everyone sought to be active and to make sure that there was real integration in the European Union as a full member of Bulgaria. However, it turned out that this Strategy is also now only cosmetically changed, that is, without any effect. In the years when we proposed and as a political party to descend to the level of municipalities and all groups to be considered separately because you know that Roma in Bulgaria are not the same, they are different, each with a specific mentality. Therefore, we cannot look at a common strategy until we reach the level of the smallest population in Bulgaria. There are also such settlements where Roma are sufficiently integrated. On the contrary, we already have those who have graduated from higher education, for example, in my region, where I represent Targovishte district, with specialties such as national security, as doctors, as lawyers. Unfortunately, these young people who have graduated from higher education, and we have done everything possible to integrate these people into society, they cannot find jobs, and are currently unemployed and working as rescuers on the beach in the summer season. Here we need to think about a better strategy and do together with the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria a common strategy, but distributed by regions and regions, because each region, I repeat, is specific to itself. We cannot make a common strategy and only from Sofia to observe the process. Good practices must be taken away from the strategy and the bad practices that have had no effect since these 27 years of democracy in Bulgaria. Ladies and gentlemen, examples are very attractive young people of Roma background graduates, notice the National Security (National Security), but for their name's sake, I can be ruder or because of their color, they are not accepted or simply cannot pass the psychotest where is the largest hatchet when applying to security services. When we begin to truly integrate those youths who have completed higher education, they will also set an example for others. Then there will be a desire to learn, to integrate, and to be an example to everyone else. What are we doing? We disintegrate them and in the years of transition we have come to this situation that only on lists we show some strategy that is really pointless. In this regard, we will not support this Strategy today with the idea of preparing a strategy that really deserves attention and real integration of minorities in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u96	Thank you. Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Professor Stanilov, you have expressed your wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A few words, some of which will be a repetition of what I have said, by us "Attack", "United Patriarchs" and so on, in previous discussions of such reports. Some of the colleagues have touched the foundation of the problem, and I would like to say it directly, in a way, with metaphors. Someone has to say the King is naked. What's the main problem? It's about a civilisational collision. These are two cultural models on one side Bulgarians, Turks, Armenians, etc., with stationary population. "Stationary population" means those who live by the rules laid down by the laws, and Gypsies are social nomads. I have explained from this tribune what a social nomad means. In general, it means that one who does not put anything into the surrounding world, whether he is a socialist or nature, does not put anything into it and uses only the goods ready. In nature there are steppe nomads, there are desert nomads, there are sea nomads and so on, but this is a completely different matter. These are social nomads. There is no doubt. That about 20% are, for example, integrated, which is true because in rural areas there are numerous gypsies that I know a village where 300 gypsies of 1,500 people live, all work in agriculture without exception in good faith and do not steal. That's true. However, large ghettos are the problem and there they live in their own world of social nomadism. The social nomadism, the cultural model, honourable colleagues, expresses a special value system in this case a value system in which rights have the highest value and obligations and responsibility have no value. Why aren't they sending them to school? Because this cultural model has no value. I'm talking about the bigger table, I'm not talking about exceptions, and that can't be changed. Colleagues, there's a concept in cultural science called "social genetics" from milking up, when you live in a particular environment, it educates you, it shapes you as a person, as a person with a value system, and you can't be changed. That's for sure. But what's the way out? Let's turn to countries that are solving this problem right now, although they can't integrate them, that's clear. For example, Hungary, for example, the Czech Republic, where they have been forced to obey the laws, to behave differently, although there are major problems there, let us turn to their experience. Here Vecdi Rashidov said, as did Mr. Siderov, if we get them all to comply with the laws, they will somehow integrate. No, they won't integrate, but we can get a bearable environment to live together. It takes many generations to change something in their value system and understand what this is all about. They can't understand that, not because they're stupid, but because they have a certain civilized, cultural model that dictates a certain value system. We have to forget about this integration, somehow we have to find another term to express it. What's our main problem? Our main problem is that part of the philosophy according to which the European Union exists, which we are members of. This is the so-called political responsibility that has already collapsed the European Union. Political correctness is mantra. Don't pay attention to people who live in society without working hard. It's a mantra. St. Kliment Ohridski writes in his life there is such a phrase: In idleness are the roots of every evil. All people and Bulgarians and Turks and Armenians and Jews who live in Bulgaria know this. They live by these laws, live by our laws, and all are equal and answer to this law. So the pressure, the carrot and the stick, sanctions, no! Even reprisals, if I have to press, I am not ashamed to say it in front of you, the repressive attitude in this way will be useful, and if the carrot is 20 cm, the stick should be two meters. There's no escape! One day these huge groups will start killing. Remember what I told you! There will be a huge mass of idlers who will create evil out of idleness. So by all means, we must also use the repression. They will start to slaughter well and will not ask which Bulgarian, which Turk, all right, be sure if we continue to sleep and we sleep. This report is a tranquilizer, he may be telling the truth, but he is not telling the outcome, and the outcome is only political will, legality and order, as our Constitution said 70 years ago. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u98	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Is there any lines to Professor Scully's statement? Stanilov? I don't see any demands. Mr. Atalay, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, we are dealing with a very serious, socially significant, perhaps a national even European problem. Debate level?! I'm not even going to give an assessment. I'd recommend it to professor. Hristov hopes that he will ever rise to the level of his students. Honourable Professor. Stanilov, I have listened to you very carefully, with a lot of things to create the social environment of that minority, which is not perceived by the majority, I agree, but as if your organization OP, in your last sentence, to impose repression, by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we do not perceive them. I am convinced that GERB should also express their views and opinions. Dear colleagues, it is a problem, not that we are looking at the National Strategy and the report. The problem is very serious and I will say: it is not perceived as such by the government, especially by the executive power, even more than the Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, the problem today, especially after the cases in Asenovgrad, after the cases in the shops of those who dress up, after the case of beating at the birth home of Shanenovo, seemed to overwhelm the senses of the executive power. Today, we believe that the Prime Minister should be here, in this place, to be able to convey concern and at the same time say the opinion of the executive, the opinion of the institutions, the opinion of GERB. Dear colleagues, in this National Strategy there are no policies, no priorities, even the motives they write, and what has been happening in recent years is a fact. And hence, colleagues, the wrong decisions taken today give the clear picture of the integration of minorities in Bulgaria. Not just the wrong decisions, especially the wrong people who deal with this problem. There is no way that the problem of minority integration can be solved by people who do not accept them, by people who hate them. There's no way you guys are gonna get through this, on the principle of keeping the chicken coop safe. There's no way you're putting the biggest thief in the world to protect the National Bank. There is no way, honourable colleagues of GERB, to applaud that today those who introduced the language of hatred that today, hating much of society, will solve the issue of minority integration. Dear colleagues, it is clear to us all that integration must go through improving the standard of living, improving the economy and hence education. Fellow Members, the disruption of the balance in society, the balance between public ethnic minorities introduces tensions. This tension cannot be solved through a challenge to appoint the biggest nationalist to deal with this problem. [[Noise and lines from SG to OP.]] Honourable Members, the imbalance must be resolved by taking certain measures and actions to integrate these minorities, to form that environment, honourable Members, and this is the responsibility of the majority. The encapsulation of this minority, the lack of the majority, these minorities lead to the division of society. And the majority of us today, in their good fortunes, if they don't take appropriate action... I from this tribune years ago have said and now I will allow myself to say it: Dear colleagues, if we do not unite, if we do not do so to demand... And today our request, our call is from here to the institutions let them come up with their official opinion on the case in Asenovgrad! Let's go out and see what the executive's doing! Sending Dinko and Perry, fins, and so on in fires by the executive, will not solve the matter. Come up with an official solution to the situation in the store! Come up with an official solution to the situation in Shaneovo! It's the executive's duty. Otherwise, colleagues, I don't want to think about it! In 1994, I was in South Africa. Then I met with Dutch and Germans who were loading their bags and leaving the country. When I asked them why, what was going on, their answer was, if we were reasonable enough, we had to create a middle class of these people to be adopted today. I hope this day doesn't come! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u100	Are there any lines? You want the word? To speak, the people representative Valeri Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Perhaps from the debates which I have at least personally heard on this topic in the National Assembly and the Bulgarian institutions, today, regardless of some extreme statements, is the most meaningful, or at least the discussion of the Strategy Implementation Report does not formally pass. This may be due both to the facts and to the events that have occurred in recent days, and perhaps also to the already tired of all formal approach to the adoption of such monitoring reports. We should address the actual situation of the Gypsy minority in Bulgaria with a clear analysis of the reasons why it is in this state. Here were heard various assumptions from cultural and cultural, including, I would say, cosmogonics who declare the minority irreparable, to absolute materialistic hypotheses that claim that the change in his domestic and labour habits is possible with the coercion of the Law and of the State. It is unlikely that any of these hypotheses can be brought to an extreme. However, we cannot avoid some facts that I think are indisputable. The first fact is the failure at this stage of the Strategy, as recorded I think there's a common understanding about this finding, expressed by me. It is clear that what we observe in today's day of Bulgaria is the growing confrontation and violence, the clash between ethnicities, which means that this Strategy, as it was adopted and described "2012" - 2020 - does not work. It is not about whether today or how we will express our attitude towards the Monitoring Report. The report I do not know, hardly anyone has gone into detail to look at it, but the report finds what has been identified as measures. The report did not comment on the measures are they successful, are they correct, where they led? The report is full of formal numbers for the implementation of one or another operational programme, how many people have been appointed, how many people have been given school and so on. But this is the Monitoring Report. We can reject it. And it is normal to reject it in the results we observe, but this does not bring down the question: is a new strategy necessary? That's the real question for me. Because if we continue until 2020 to implement this Strategy, in the next three years we will have the same monitoring reports, because there the parameters are clear, they are set. This means that the issue will not be resolved, not because the report is wrong, but because obviously the strategy adopted in 2012. The strategy does not take into account the real trends in the development of this problem. My call is also to the National Assembly and to the other institutions dealing with these issues: to consider the development and adoption of a new strategy that takes into account the Bulgarian realities. The truth is that the decade of Roma inclusion, the Strategy, as it was developed in 2012, is based on ideological dogmas, on some understandings that were forced into a completely wrong concept of an imaginary, full of fantasy multiculturalism. This society and this type of society did not take place and it could not take place because it denied the fundamental values of the nation and the state. Rethinking all this, already in practice, what we face in our society, of everything we are forced to act on post-factum, it is necessary to develop a new Bulgarian strategy for resolving the issues that have arisen in these increasingly specific ethnic groups. The issue of national integration is not the issue of the integration of one ethnicity or another! There is a question about the national integration of Bulgaria! And that question is extremely important. And this strategy, as proposed, is partial. It was inspired by the understanding of some extreme liberal fundamentalist views about the place of ethnics, but it no longer has its place. I therefore call on the National Assembly, perhaps in a separate decision, or the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, to raise the issue of the development of a new Strategy, if necessary, or, if we do not want to call it the Strategy. This is the key issue, and we must pay significant attention to this issue. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? A line or a statement? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! We have lived to see a situation where everyone is competent on one subject, rather what we see is the extraction of political dividends from colleagues who may even have no idea what they are talking about. The attitude for me is written in order to extract a political dividend. Nothing else. We have lived to see a situation in which the executioners of a community are very concerned about it, which created a value system in terms of them. Since 2005, this has been a very serious phenomenon in political life, a spectrum of creating a negative attitude towards a community, to difference. The problem actually lies in denying the different one, especially when it comes to the different color, the different ethnicity, the different religion and so on. And that's how you make political dividends. This is a policy that is developing, focusing on it, and there is no way to solve this problem if this problem is not resolved at the core of breaking this value system of each of us. How many of our colleagues are really interested in this case, how many of our colleagues really see this community as equal? If we exclude political talk, put that matter to yourself. Do you really see these people as equivalent to yourself? When this breaks within you and when this is passed on as a political message and as actions and surrenders to the whole society, then there will be real integration. Over the years, people have done so that this community is separated, segregated and it has its own value system, even as a reaction to society, in many cases, as a reaction to an anti-pod reaction, as its own protection. This cannot be overcome, colleagues, if we do not overcome this value rift within ourselves. Both the value system of attitude and our value system and the society towards the Roma community in particular is an indicator of the development of society. If we do not stop with the false messages, with the fictional political concern in relation to this community, I think that really the national security of the country will have its own ugly threat to national security. Thank you, colleagues. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u104	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u105	Thank you, colleagues, that's what I meant. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u106	Thank you, too. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? People's representative Anton Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I couldn't figure out who the executioners were, Mr. Ebatine? Who did you mean? Is that a language of hatred, or is it a weak reaction from the people to whom it was addressed?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u108	Or a line or a personal explanation, Mr. Todorov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u109	Perhaps the people of the DPS and the BSP recognize the Indian principle of morality. What's he like? When Big Feather steals Little Moon's horse, that's good. When Little Moon steals the horse of the Great Feather, it's bad, that is, when someone calls you killers, as heirs of a party of murderers, it's a language of hate when you talk about criminals, it's not a language of hate. I'd like to say a few things, because for an hour and a half, they've been talking nonsense, no one's showing any documents on the gypsy case. I've taken some documents from the archive that seem important to me, and I'd like to read them. In the mid-60s of the last century, something is happening in the People's Republic that little is known. That's when the lowest birth rate was achieved. It's 1966. I know that for many of you this is like a revelation, but this is the truth itself, the number of abortions exceeds the number of births. In 1966, there is no SDS, no democracy, no one has taken anything from anyone. Communist power in Bulgaria is in panic and takes panic measures. What are they? Several decrees were mentioned, but no one mentioned the 1968 Decree to promote birth rates. This decree begins to build several dozen boarding schools, which assume full government support for 30 000 Gypsy children. And what do you get? A few years later, they reached 30,000 children on full government support. According to data from 1970, the growth of the gypsy population is 17.5%, and in separate counties it is even twice as high in Blagoevgrad is 36%, Kardzhali The growth of the Bulgarian population at this time was 5.6%. In the mid-70s the Gypsies were nearly 10% of the population in Vidin, 8.5% of the population of Mihailovgrad, more than 10% of the population of Sliven. In Pleven County, the average annual growth of the Gypsy population at that time was 20%, compared to 4.2% for the whole county............................................................................................ [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u110	Please, guys! Please! Be tolerant, many people have spoken in this style. That's the way a lot of people have spoken!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u111	We're reading a newsletter... [[Relations from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.]] I'll make you a copy. We are reading a newsletter about received more characteristic signals and data of subversive activity of the opponent from Management 6th of the Board of Directors. There are many children who do not study. This fact has been passed without public attention. Many children are absent for no reason and the level of their knowledge is extremely unsatisfactory. Report by Georgi Georgiev, member of the Central Committee of the BCP and Chairman of the Committee for State Control at the end of 1989: The young people with unfinished primary and secondary education are nearly 40 per cent of the contingent of labour resources aged up to 29 years. I repeat about the misunderstood: at the end of 1989 from the young people entering the labour market up to 29 years of age, 40% have unfinished primary and secondary education! I have the report. I'll give it to Mr. Ermenkov. [[Noise and lines.]] No, because he claims I have to show him the specific report. Finally, one reference from the Information Centre of the Central Committee of the BCP since the early 1970s: The main part of the perpetrators of the theft, murder, rape, hooligan acts and other immoral acts in the various counties are from the middle of the Gypsy population. That was said in the early 1970s. And now, I just want to read you something, and I'm done with it. An overview of the activity of the investigation apparatus from November 1988 A year before the fall of the totalitarian regime: In the department of Veliko Tarnovo, a preliminary consequence is led against Krasimir Pushkov, 28-year-old, convicted, a gypsy with a restored name, who raped and strangled in her home in the village of Komarevo 77-year-old lonely living Nevena Pantaleeva. A sharp increase marks the rapes of elderly women and the robberies of lonely citizens. The perpetrator of a total of 21 rapes of lonely women in Northeastern Bulgaria was caught. This is 28-year-old V.K., of gypsy origin, idler, repeatedly convicted of criminal crimes, who raped 21 women in Ruse, Tarnovo, Pleven, Strazhitsa, Popovo and Gurkovo. In Vratsa 40-year-old Andrey Arsov was arrested, repeatedly convicted, idler, father of 6 children, of gypsy origin, for murder in order to rob 85-year-old Nelly Karuchevska, the village of Dobrolevo. In the archives of the Ministry of Interior and DHS there are thousands of similar cases. Not hundreds of thousands. So when we talk about the problem of today's Bulgaria, they are there in the dark heritage of Bolshevika Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u112	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. - What's the line? [[National Representative Tasco Ermenkov wants the floor.]] Personal explanation, in the manner of conducting what do you choose? [[Heckling]] All right, whatever you want. Go with whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u113	There's no time!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u114	It takes time for both of them, Mr. Chairman of the Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u115	Personal explanation or manner of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u116	Read the Rules, don't let me teach you, you have to teach us.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u117	Please, Mr. Ermenkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u118	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm taking a procedure, first of all, a personal explanation, because what they want to offer me as a Report, I don't care at all. I live with today and the future. I didn't bury myself in the past, like some people who seemed to have their history there, and there was their desire. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] They're lost somewhere and haven't found each other yet. And they'll probably keep living in that past because the present somehow didn't give up on them. And the glare they show on the stands is most likely their last appearances of some self-esteem, some unwarranted self-esteem. So I take the personal explanation to tell you: this report does not interest me. I don't care, because this report that was read...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u119	What did it do to you then? If you don't care, how did it affect you?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u120	I'm touched by the fact that they want to give me a report that...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u121	Personal explanation, if you're personally offended.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u122	Yeah, that's why.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u123	If you don't care, how are you affected?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u124	Yeah, I'm explaining why I don't want that report. That's what I want to explain to him. That's what affected me. He wanted to give me something I didn't want.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u125	If you're not interested, it can't affect you. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u126	He wants to give me something I don't want. Do you understand? [[Laughter, noise and lines.]] . How can I explain it to you in more detail? That concerns me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u127	It's hard to explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u128	It concerns my personal will for things I wouldn't want to be forced to give them to me. Please don't do this. After all, we're in parliament. It's true that the speaker tried to turn it into something between memoirs, some commemorations and something that...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u129	What are you affected by right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u130	...maybe it was to fill the parliamentary group's time. And now, Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. I ask you, the previous speech, Mr. President, what did it have to do with the topic "Administrative Moritoring Report 2016 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration"? One word, let's not, because some word you can find, a word-related sentence that answers the subject we're talking about right now? Was it 2016 or 1966? Was this in common with the Monitoring Report? Do the reports that we heard about what happened and who arrested him have anything to do with the activities of... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u131	Please don't call!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u132	... the State as regards implementation in 2016? Once again, once again I will say this: do not let people who live in this year, not in this century, even in the middle of the last, waste valuable time on the National Assembly, because every parliamentary day, every parliamentary minute costs taxpayers money! Don't give people who haven't lived their lives to live their lives today...................................................................................... And lastly, Mr. Chairman. A long time ago I thought you would interrupt the speakers, but I suggest that, after all the speeches we have talked about problems of the Gypsies, you rename the Report because of the Roma we did not talk about at the moment, and it should be a Report on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Integration of Gypsies. Because you were all talking about gypsies, no one was talking about Roma. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u133	Mr. Ermenkov, obviously, unlike you, I am very closely monitoring the debate in its entirety. What you are talking about is that I had to take away the word of the MP Anton Todorov, at least five or six other people there were, to whom I had to take away the word for the same reason. However, they argue where the roots are about the lack of Roma integration. I find in this some reason to let them express their position. I shouldn't be applying double arsin to the various MPs. If you had followed all of them by different parliamentary groups, you would have noticed that many of them had left to argue their position on the report in this way. There's no way I can repress Mr. Todorov. Don't ask that of me. I am among equals first, but this does not mean that I have to repress the MPs from GERB, I am sorry. Personal explanation, please. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u134	Mr. Todorov, I don't know you personally, but what you said, along the way of the so-called "morphic resonance" without even knowing you, I am convinced by the attitude that you are one of the people who are part of this political clique that creates this value problem,...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u135	Please, how did it affect you personally?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u136	...of the value system in society. Because I talked in principle that the root of the problem is that psychologically many people in this country do not perceive the difference, especially when it comes to differences in color, religion and so on. Your attitude shows that you are part of this political clique and are working very hard at it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u137	Please, no qualifiers! How has the people's representative Anton Todorov personally affected you?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u138	Exactly in terms of his statement. There were such qualifications with regard to the political power in which he personally entered. Such a type of political speech, such a type of political attitude shows a value system that is destructive, which we must do our best to overcome as politicians and regardless of our political differences, to have reasons to communicate with each other without personality to deny ourselves in terms of religion, in terms of color and so on. Something you need to overcome for yourself and for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u139	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. In the manner of holding the People's Representative Vejdi Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u140	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! You're in a bad way because you obviously don't notice me, like some people on this side, I'm very small. So please, when I raise the map, let me have the opportunity to be close to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u141	Here, you're in the stands right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u142	Colleagues, since I'm a minority too, and I'm going to bruise it on you, a value system is not a common phrase. The value system has image and shape. A value system is the best qualities of personality. This creates the concept of a value system. Because he has the word value of the basis of that word. I was just trying to tell you, not with money, with money we'll create more gypsy barons. I was listening to Tsvetlin Kanchev on TV this morning. It was chicken to steal the Bulgarian or the Turk or the Jew and not to pay attention because there were bigger thieves. No, colleagues, for anyone who steals, the word is "theft." What is the value system? My wife has worked for 30 years at Pyrogov and when she enters a sick person, she never asks herself the question: is she Bulgarian, is she Turkish, is she a gypsy, is she a Jew? She has an obligation to heal the sick person. What's the value system after you're cured of getting beaten up? Is that what we're talking about? Whom are we encouraging? I tried to say earlier: it is time for all politicians to unite around a common cause to stop what we call a crime and none of GERB is against the crime. What do you mean, you, we? Who are you, who are we? There's one problem, it's about solving. Who from GERB is for crime? Isn't that the same topic? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Please, it's a very delicate matter. There are no minorities, there are Bulgarian citizens in Bulgaria and take it this way. They're called free will, whether they're gypsies, Turks, they choose, mother gave birth to them. But the rules are the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u143	The weather, Mr. Rashidov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u144	Today you have to solve this problem: do we comply with the laws of the state? There are laws, just for one law doesn't work, but for the other. And that will integrate, no doubt.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u145	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. We accept that this is a procedure in the manner of conduct and I have not noticed the people's representative Vejdi Rashidov in another procedure, for which I regret. [[Heckling]] Any other speeches? [[People from BSP for Bulgaria are asking for the floor.]] You don't have time. I'm sorry. I'm closing the debate. The word is Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u146	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! If I may, I will try to make a summary in the spirit of the topic put forward for debate in the National Assembly, starting from private to general. In private, it was suggested that in my own person the comparison with the lady who should guard the curnica was made, the wrong person to solve the ethnic problems and even the pilgrim or one of the executioners of an entire community. I need to make it clear and make it clear to you right away that there is no one in this room who has done as practical actions to involve the Gypsy ethnicity as the one in question, or I do not know what, in the following areas: politics, economy, youth and sport, culture, religion and spirituality. Evidence. Firstly, as co-owner of a number of companies. In my companies, I can tell you that several dozen representatives of the Gypsy ethnicity work and not only as excavators and joint workers, but as cable technicians. They pay their taxes, their insurance, they watch their kids and they educate them. In the field of politics: I can assure you that in the ranks of the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria there are very few Gypsies, there are among them and those who hold positions of presidents, secretaries and coordinators. In the field of youth and sport, you may not have understood, but very recently won European title, European boxing champion Daniel Asenov is an alumni of the club "Aprilets" which I am chairman of and have endured for more than 10 years. In this club, at least half of the athletes are of gypsy origin from the Yambol villages. Daniel Asenov himself has been working for many years as an employee of SKAT TV and at present. Further on, in the field of culture. In the field of culture, I can tell you that Skat TV, which I used to run, is the only television that has a gypsy show about gypsy ethnicity. [[Heckling]] Are you unhappy or what? [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u147	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please report!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u148	Finally, in the field of religion and spirituality I can inform you that my mercy with the assistance of the municipal councillors from the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria we built by our own means not a chapel, but a temple in the gypsy district of Burgas, worth about 1.5 million. I hope one of you has done that much for the inclusion of Gypsy ethnicity. Then he will have the right to distribute such definitions as you allow yourself to distribute from this tribune. So private. In a more global perspective, I would like to thank everyone who has spoken on this subject, except for the few who have spoken, who have made purely political statements. There were two or three of them. Everyone else spoke with emotion, spoke with anger, spoke with empathy, spoke with responsibility on the subject. And I stand 99% behind what Mr. Gokov, Mr. Hristov, Mrs. Dukova, Mrs. Siderov, Ms. Zhekova and Mr. Jablyanov said. If I'm missing someone, excuse me. Everything you said was true. The essence is not whether this report is good or bad, it doesn't really matter whether you are going to vote for it or against it. But this report, as Mr. Zablyanov said, is actually a congregation, one report of the individual ministries what they have done under the programme. He has no claim to be a strategy that was expected here by a statement. The strategy is different. The very fact that so long the Bulgarian National Assembly in the most responsible way addresses this issue, I think for the first time in its new history, is indicative that there is a consensus on the issue of the integration of the Gypsy ethnicity into the Bulgarian society. It's a good sign, it gives hope and optimism. Also such willingness to deal with and solve problems face to face I also meet among many of the ministers in the current government. That's a good sign, too. Finally, such willingness to resolve the issue is also present in the ethnicity in question. When we were building the temple, St. George the Victorious in the district of Victory in Burgas, an ill-intentioned journalist from an ill-intentioned television station came to do a report. He showed how the temple was built, made some suggestions, and at that time several gypsies entered the construction site. She leaned down empathically, brought up the microphone and asked them: "Say kids, what do you want to become?" [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u149	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Let's move on to the vote. Project! DECISION under Administrative Monitoring Report 2016 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to Section VIII, p. 6 of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012) HAS DECIDED Administrative monitoring report 2016 for the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 Please vote. Vote 190 MPs: for 103, against 66, abstention 21. The report has been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: TERMINATION OF THE MANDATE OF THE NATIONAL HEALTH AND HEALTH CARE (given LEAD BY THE GLINK COMITOV "THE MANAGE OF NATIONAL HEALTH AND HEALTH CASE, 29 June 2017)). A letter was received to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria: Dear Mr. Glauchev, on the grounds of art. 19th para. 4 t. 5 of the Health Insurance Act, I am resigning as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. Signing the signature of Glinka Komitov. As a result, I offer you the following official Project! DECISION on early termination of the term of office of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 19th para. 4 t. 5 of the Health Insurance Act HAS DECIDED He suspended Glinka Dimov Komitov's term of office as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think when we discuss the issue of Dr. Glinka Komitov, we should invite him to the Chamber. I'm proposing that he be invited to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u151	It's his personal decision whether he'll be here or not, but it's okay if he's here. Let's vote if he's here, get in the room. Please vote on the proposal. [[Heckling]] Now we're voting admission to the hall, and if he decides to come. Not necessarily. Once again, I am explaining this is a wishful thinking vote, if Dr. Komitov decides to be present in the Chamber, he will be able to enter, otherwise there will be no such possibility. Vote 153 MPs: 126, against 3, abstaining 24. The motion is accepted. If Mr. Komitov wishes, he may be present in the hall. You have the floor for a debate on resignation. [[Noise and lines.]] I can't ask him out any more than that. Whoever made the offer to inform him. You have the floor to debate. Here you go, Professor. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President, honourable Members, it is quite difficult for me personally to part with Dr. Komitov in this way, first of all, without meeting him and second of all, in the conditions of his resignation, because he is personally one of the most prominent specialists in the field of health management, and one of the long-standing leaders of this so serious institution. However, this does not change the problem of the reasons for his resignation, on which I will try for a few minutes to stop and point out how serious they are, as Dr. Komitov, as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Casa, could hardly influence several too serious and too far-reaching decisions for us from the last six months. First of all, in January, the Casata Supervisory Board refused first, and then refused to pay for the excess work of hospitals, which put them in a very serious situation which continues to this day and finally I will present some of the data that has already been disclosed by the Ministry of Health. However, this does not end the chant of very serious and damaging interests of both the professional community and the Bulgarian patients and decisions of the Supervisory Board. A little later, without being introduced into the National Framework Treaty, payments for oncology directions were postponed through the conditions of an orderary decision in patients undergoing chemotherapy. An absolutely unacceptable rule was introduced for checking the area and weight of the Bulgarian citizens, it was proposed that something that is inappropriate from a professional point of view, even as a wishful thinking in the regulation, which was taken out of the Supervision of the NHIF, should be grouped patients with cancers accordingly, to be able to walk a smaller amount of medicines intended for their therapy, which is absolutely unacceptable in view of one of the basic rules in the treatment of ondupatives, namely the density of therapy. All of this has created very serious tension, for which we have repeatedly presented our arguments and proposals for decisions here in the Chamber of the National Assembly. But this is not over again, only not long ago a new Decision of the Supervisory Board of the Casa came out, which has largely already blown up the professional community, which to Annex No 1 covers centralized activities such as births, treatment of on-the-spots, to introduce the so-called "indicating values" and to pay for the activities of medical institutions. You can imagine, if you listen to what we're talking about right now, that births could thus be regulated and the question of whether or not they should be financially compensated by the Casa Supervisory Board. This is an absolute professional nonsense, told to the Bulgarian "stupidity," which, however, came out as a decision of the Supervisory Board and was presented as a dilemma in front of the health institutions in the country, respectively, the Bulgarian Medical Union immediately reacted with a very sharp statement for the possibility of protests by the doctors of the country. All this suggests that the Supervisory Board of the Casa, whether with or without the consent of Dr. Komitov, is currently creating a very unrealistic professionally and dangerous environment for the Bulgarian citizens, which creates an opportunity for problems in the payment of the medical activity. Moreover, the financial and public spending of the healthcare funds are such that they suggest that the proposed parameters were set, and this was formally said by the Board of Supervisory of the National Fund at one of the meetings of the Health Commission, that they create a prerequisite for a suspected deficit at the end of the current calendar year. And ending the citation of all these decisions that have shaken the already seriously shaken framework of Bulgarian healthcare, before me here is a Report of the Ministry of Health, which was sent to all members of the Health Commission, Prof. Petrov, as a good manager, took a very accurate picture of the state of hospitals in the country. Each of you has the opportunity to get acquainted with this Report and when you see it you will understand that the hospitals with the biggest responsibilities in Bulgaria are the most working and most centralized hospitals dealing with the most serious problems and the most severe patients in Bulgaria. I won't mention all the names here are Alexandrovska Hospital, Tsaritsa Ioana Hospital, University Hospital St. Marina and some high-tech hospitals. My wish is as a professional to address to all the participants in these debates that this will continue the health policy of the National Health Insurance Fund is absolutely unacceptable and this will create extremely serious difficulties in the second half of the calendar year. We are witnessing many disturbing events, worrying events in certain Holders of the Society, education, internal security, incidents with attacks on health officials. All this suggests that the threshold of respect of the nation for these professions is greatly reduced. And this comes from the very difficult conditions in which they are currently working, and if these facts do not change, we will be picking much more serious fruits than the consequences of the protests that are currently flowing out, as healthcare represents one of the most serious Holders, that is, the holders of society in the modern world, and it is becoming increasingly important, and there is no way that the National Assembly will not address these problems and not try to seriously solve them, as Dr. Komitov's resignation, the arrival of a new governor of the Health Insurance Fund, alone will not lead to solving the problems. The main problems in the activities of the National Fund, which funds over 90% of the country's healthcare, are related to the funding model. This model of funding leads to such distortions which lead to the obligations of hospitals that go beyond already and this is very correctly stated in the report by Prof. Petrov, over 400 million. lv. I therefore call on you now, when the question of raising the new leadership of the National Health Fund is raised, it is very good that we all consider how it will be managed and what the model of financing healthcare will be in the coming months and years, as the effect in the overall health policy depends practically on it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u153	Thank you, Professor. Mikhailov. Dear colleagues! I didn't interrupt, Professor. Mikhailov, but we're still discussing resignation. Resignation is a personal act and all speakers show some respect for a person who has resigned, however, do not turn it into a political debate. We are not discussing the health system at the moment, nor the way the Health Insurance Fund is financed, we are discussing the resignation of...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u154	I said, Mr. Chairman, from the beginning, you didn't hear me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u155	Please! Especially from colleagues of Dr. Komitov I expect respect for his moral act, and from everyone who could ever resign. Don't turn this into politics. There are plenty of themes for health care, you'll have a chance to discuss them. For a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Indeed today we are discussing the resignation of one of the last Mohicans of Bulgarian healthcare. I say mojicans, because you have to have a lot of valor to get a request to drop the limits on the hospital services twice, knowing what the situation is. So I cannot fail to appreciate Dr. Komitov's work. [[Heckling]] That's right, Dr. Daritkova. At the same time, things had to happen that didn't happen and we shouldn't close our eyes. First of all, to me, we are the only health system in the world that is financially planned with economy and not with deficit. All over the world, health systems end with a deficit of their years, and we have to end with economy. For the first time the management of healthcare in Bulgaria is not carried out by the Ministry of Health, it is not carried out by the Health Insurance Fund, but is carried out by an impossant building on Rakovski Street. The Panacea is the introduction of e-health without which nothing can happen by reforming it has not been done. And in the end, for two years we have had a limit on the activities of health institutions. All this suggests, unfortunately, that behind Dr. Komitov there was no political will to reform. And that's why he, in my opinion, resigned. I sincerely hope that the Minister of Health will not be the next to resign. I sincerely hope that when we say that we want to have modern healthcare in our country, we will have to provide in this House and the resources for it in order to have successful managers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u157	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people's representative Dr. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There is no way, although we are discussing resignation for personal reasons, not to mention health care today and what is happening in healthcare. There's no way out of this debate. We are about to choose the sixteenth Governor of the Health Insurance Fund in the 16-year history of this institution. Glinka Komitov is leaving, the problems in the system remain and they will, unfortunately, deepen. We hope that everything with him is okay, that personal motives are not of this variety, that they determine fate in another way, but it is a fact that this resignation raises a lot of questions about who manages the National Health Insurance Fund, the way decisions are made, the responsibility for decisions made, the future of the Health Insurance Fund and the future of the health insurance model in general. Glinka Komitov is a worthy professional. He was one of the many managers of the Health Insurance Fund who willingly took up this post. The more serious problem is that we are seeing a phenomenon of the most rapid-moving Bernaut syndrome that develops among the managers of the Health Insurance Fund, professional burn syndrome, unknown why, which only develops so quickly among the managers of the Health Insurance Fund. I'll talk to facts. To remind us of the expectations of Dr. Komitov's election on 12 March 2015 at this post. In addition to the traditional for all controls, transparency, it was asked by a Member of the National Assembly from the Patriotic Front for a surplus of the budget, and it is assured that there will be an excess in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. By the way, the last surplus, just to remind you, is 456 million and 1 billion. 200 million large operating reserves, but this is in the distant 2009s. Dr. Komitov's promises are from the stenogram that for him the management of the Health Insurance Fund is a mission, that it will control not only the costs, but the quality that it will make the Health Insurance Fund a major tool for improving the health indicators, that the Health Insurance Fund will not become the second centre of power, that for each patient will be paid. But what is the current state of the system? About 250 million deficit for 2015 - 2016, non-paid excess activity, i.e. unpaid for the treatment of many patients. 520 million outstanding medical expenses. Expected excess drug funds of nearly 100 million this year alone. What happened differently during the reign of Dr. Komitov? The Supervisory Board was totally contained because the state brought two more of its representatives into this supervision. Fixed budgets have been introduced, the over-liminal activity. The term has become public, and it has been accepted that it will not be paid. The waiting lists were created, the packages entered. It didn't become the second center of the health department. But it wasn't clear who was running it. And I think that's part of the problem. I hope these aren't part of Dr. Komitov's personal motives. That is, despite the attempt to regulate, which tried to introduce Dr. Komitov, this obviously did not lead to an increase in the quality of the medical service, even less to a reduction in the deficit. Searching for solutions post-factum saw the inability to overcome problems and to outline trends, as well as to influence at all the problems and trends. It has come to the validation of one of the most powerful monopolies in this country, and this is the monopoly of the Health Insurance Fund. That is why we believe that the managers of the Health Insurance Fund are hostages of the model. We believe that the government, the government, must decide to change the funding, to demonopolist the Health Insurance Fund. To make a clear decision to return the three-party principle of management of the Health Insurance Fund. During the time of GERB, instead of the General Assembly of Representatives, instead of the Board of Control and the Board of Directors of the Casa, was established an authority Absolutely contained Supervisory Board, which hostages all the managers of the Health Insurance Fund. That's what the next one's gonna be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u159	Thank you, dear Dr. Jaffer. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Ibrishimov, come in. After him, the people representative Ilian Timchev. Mr. Timchev, if you don't mind, before you and Dr. Ademov come by to take turns in groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u160	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! There are certainly many health problems, and we are unlikely to solve them in this Chamber today. But once again, I want to focus your attention on Dr. Komitov's resignation, so suddenly. I'm a member of the Health Committee. We had a meeting exactly a week ago, attended by Dr. Komitov and gave no indication that he intended to resign, albeit with personal motives. Dr. Komitov is not just the director of the National Health Insurance Fund. Dr. Komitov manages over 3 billion. lv. A public resource and there is no way that such a sudden resignation will not cause concern to me, I suppose, in all of you. I heard about his resignation from the media as a member of the Health Committee. I guess most of you in this room also got that from the media. I also learned about the motives of the resignation from the media. If not him, or the person, as far as I know, who has resigned, is not here in the Chamber, then who will explain to us and the society, to the word organizations that are concerned and have signed the National Framework Treaty together with Dr. Komitov.. Pharmaceutical Union, Doctor's Union, Dental Union, hospitals and management of hospitals that use this public resource, who will explain why Dr. Komitov should resign? Are the motives really personal? And because Dr. Komitov is the candidate of GERB, the appointment of GERB, I think that you, colleagues from GERB, should explain this resignation. Otherwise, we will be under the impression that anyone appointed to a high state post before being appointed will sign their resignation, which lies in someone's drawer, in someone's party office, and in the event of disobedience, it can be deposited with him in either the Council of Ministers or the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u161	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibrishimov. Are there any lines? The resignation was submitted to the National Assembly on 29 June at 17.23. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This discussion is a bit difficult because we are considering the resignation, albeit on personal grounds, of a decent person. A completed, built professional who has dedicated more than 12 years of his life in the name of health insurance in Bulgaria. He has been in various positions of responsibility as governor, as a sub-governor, as director of one of the major regional health insurance banks, and in these qualities he has shown enviable levels of competence which have been recognised by absolutely all institutions in Bulgaria, which are relevant to the health care system. Mr. Chairman, you probably have the right to comment that since the resignation was filed on personal grounds, we should not discuss the health system as a whole, but only Glinka Komitov's personal motive, but in the case of the Health Insurance Act it is clear that the resignation, as well as the appointment, are accepted by the National Assembly. If you want there to be no such discussion, let the one who wishes not have such a discussion make changes to the Health Insurance Act, where the comments of the resignation for personal reasons are rejected, and then there will be no such doubt. However, doubts about Glinka Komitov's resignation are there, and they are caused not by the act of resignation itself, but by what is happening in the healthcare system, the tensions it has. Unfortunately, when there is tension in the health care system, it is most often the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund. But I want to tell you something that is extremely important. In the Health Insurance Act there are 19 powers of the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, only he is the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund. No prof. Mihailov to be a member of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund, he participates in meetings of the Supervisory Board of the Casa without having the right to vote. And that's clear from the Health Insurance Act. Furthermore, one of its most important powers is to draw up the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, which you notice, on a proposal from the previous team of the Ministry of Health necessarily passes for coordination and for an opinion by the Minister of Health, then is submitted to the Supervisory Board and the Council of Ministers submits the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund to the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall adopt the budget parameters. It is the Supervisory Board that has powers, and the manager of the National Health Fund is the executive body. It has no power to influence any processes in the healthcare system. It is an executive body and, in this capacity, is always vulnerable to attacks both on terms and on medical institutions and society as a whole and on the people's representatives. Therefore, if we do not change the powers of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, if we do not improve or change the management structure of the National Health Insurance Fund, if we do not improve the way the health insurance system is financed, each of the following governors of the National Health Insurance Fund will be held hostage and at some point will resign for any personal reasons, or whether by.. I do not want to choose the right word, but I am tempted to say: I will be forced to resign for whatever reasons.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u163	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? I won't. Please come in for a procedure, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u164	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Given that this discussion is likely to expose all health problems again, some good legislative proposals may be born. I would like to call on my colleagues to support an extension of the time until Dr. Komitov's resignation is accepted. I would stress that this is a personal act to be respected. The law gives such a legal opportunity and from now on the procedure provides for a new manager to be chosen within one month. If we really want not to give the opportunity for powerlessness and timelessness, I ask you to extend the time to conclude the discussion today and to vote on this resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u165	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made to extend the working hours for today until Dr. Komitov's resignation. 140 MPs voted: 94, against 40, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Another procedure is the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking for a procedure. Colleagues, let's vote on extending the period between the first and second reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u167	Is there a reverse opinion? We vote. I'm relieved. I thought it was the way it was supposed to be. They voted 146 MPs: for 145, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Timchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the score of the long-standing government, ladies and gentlemen, your government, MPs from GERB? Chaos in the health care system. I would like to ask you: how many mandates does the Bulgarian people have to give you in order to bear the political responsibility for the condition to which you have brought Bulgarian healthcare? The common thing between all of your governments so far is that they are characterized by the lack of vision for health care. A manifestation of this lack of vision is the change of ministers and the absence of any continuity between them "everyone with a different idea for the development of health care, their models. At the same time, no party programme is followed, thus avoiding political responsibility. As for your party program, it always remains only wishful thinking. For example, the main point in your program is the demonopolation of the Cassata.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u169	Mr. Timchev, I'm sorry, I expect you to say something about the resignation we're discussing. Please include this topic in this highway statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u170	In all of your programs is the demonopolist of the Cassata, and you have not taken any steps in this direction. There's not even a developed concept of how this could happen. The health fund, as it were, is in the Ministry of Finance. What's the logic of being there? I'll tell you: more than 1 billion cut off from the Cassata during Djankov's time. At the same time, constant underfinancing of the clinical pathways and your solution to the problem of the clinical pathways are the so-called clinically related groups. However, as many other things remain only in words and only in election time. With your deregulation policies, you have also stimulated the emergence of private hospitals against the backdrop of bankrupt municipal hospitals. Last but not least, your personnel policy is also the danger of failure of the system due to lack of personnel. Nurses and doctors are leaving the country because of working conditions and poor wages. In conclusion, a summary of your policy so far. Reactive policy, not proactive as it should be. You put out fires instead of preventing them from occurring. The resignation of the head of the National Health Insurance Fund is one of the consequences of your failed health care policy. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u171	Are there lines? I won't. The way you're leading it? I won't either. Any other speeches? Here you go. Please, colleagues, concern yourself at least once in your speech on the subject discussed, and it is the resignation of the manager of the Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! There is no wonder that fellow doctors in this Chamber are concerned. The Vice-President of the National Assembly was right when he said that a good professional went away, as we all, although newer, have known Dr. Komitov for years. Indeed, we have one support for his work, but we also regret that at such a time when the real debate began after so many years, since 10 November, for the future of health care, it is gone. There are certainly many doubts, undoubtedly Dr. Komitov knows that we will continue. All of us here in this room owe it to our citizens. Dear Members of Parliament, do not be afraid of the subject. The subject really hurts. The topic is like a hot potato, which, however, is not only in the garden of government, and they should not transfer it to others. We doctors are here in this room to ask for your consent to change. We didn't come here for wages. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u173	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. Let's do it again. Project! DECISION on early termination of the term of office of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 19th para. 4 t. 5 of the Health Insurance Act HAS DECIDED He suspended Glinka Dimov Komitov's term of office as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. This project is the result of Dr. Komitov's resignation. Please vote. Vote 155 MPs: 88, none, abstention 67. The decision's been made. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE RECEIVED AND THE ARGUED FORES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importers of the Council of Ministers, 12 June 2017; as well as Konstantin Popov and a group of MPs, 22 June 2017. A report by the Defence Committee, which will be presented to us by the President of the Commission, "The People's Representative Konstantin Popov." You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u174	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'll introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 702-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2017. At a regular meeting held on 22 June 2017, the Defence Committee examined on the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 702-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2017. The meeting was attended by 20 MPs. Deputy Minister Atanas Zapreyanov, Director of the Directorate of Legal and Legal Activity (Clementina Deneva) and Director of the Directorate of Social Policy (S &amp; D) took part in the discussion of the Draft. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Defence General. Atanas Zapreyanov, who stressed that the proposed amendment would provide equal opportunities for men and women soldiers to take parental leave introduced by Directive 2010/18/EU under the conditions and under the terms of the country's common labour law, as well as to achieve the synchronization of national law with that Directive, which, in turn, will also ensure the implementation of the European Commission's recommendation. The amendment of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria is required in order to bring its provisions into line with Council Directive 2010/18/EU of 8 March 2010 implementing the Framework Agreement on parental leave. According to the importers of the Bill, if the proposed change is adopted by the National Assembly, it will avoid the possibility that the launched pilot procedure of the European Commission will become a formal infringement procedure against our country. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Slavcho Velkov, Vladimir Toshev, Tasco Ermenkov and Plamen Manushev, who spoke in support of the proposed change. The question was raised whether the change would not affect the assembly with personnel and the readiness of the Armed Forces formations, and the need to take appropriate measures from the Ministry of Defence was addressed. After hearing the reasons and closing the discussion, a vote was held, as a result of which the Defence Committee unanimously adopted the following opinion by 20 votes: He proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 702-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u175	Please also brief us on the report on the second bill. Honourable Members, with this report and another report, we will finish the work for today.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe discussing the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 754-01-30, submitted by Konstantin Popov and a group of MPs on 22 June 2017. At a regular meeting held on 29 June 2017, the Defence Committee examined for a first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria (ZOVSRB), No 754-01-30, submitted by Konstantin Popov and a group of MPs on 22 June 2017. There were 18 MPs present. After the opening of the meeting, the Chairman of the Defence Committee informed the members of the Commission of the order of the President of the National Assembly on the allocation of the draft to the Defence Committee. The bill amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 754-01-30, was presented by the Chairman of the Defence Committee on behalf of the importers. The bill proposes amendments to the provisions of art. Art. 79, Art. Art. 82, Art. Art. 136, Art. 160 of the ZOVSRB. The proposals for amendments to Articles 79 and 82 shall refer to the figure of the Permanent Secretary of Defence. In the current texts of the Law, there are contradictions that have been shown in practical terms over the years in actions related to the termination of the permanent secretary's relationship with the Ministry of Defence. One of the objectives of the Bill is overcoming existing ambiguities and incompleteness in the current provisions. The proposed changes will achieve a complete synchronization between the texts of ZOVSRB and the provisions of the Law on the Civil Service. As an example of the implementation of the provisions of the Civil Service Act in relation to the same as the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, the Diplomatic Service Act and the Ministry of Interior Act were referred to. The new version of art. 82 was drawn up by analogy with the provisions of the Diplomatic Service Act with regard to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior Act with regard to the Administrative Secretary of the Ministry of Interior. With what is offered by art. 79 of the Draft Law introduces clear, well-defined requirements for the occupation of a permanent Secretary of Defense. With the new paragraph in art. 136 A requirement is introduced for a hearing by the Defence Committee to the National Assembly of the officers proposed for the award of senior officer titles before considering their candidacy by the Council of Ministers. The hearing of the officers of the members of the Defence Committee is a step arising from the status and functions of the Commission as a specialized body of the National Assembly. Her participation in the formation of the defence policy of the Republic of Bulgaria and assistance in its precise conduct implies adequate awareness of the state and perspective of the development of the senior command staff. The proposal to supplement the Defence Committee will ensure greater transparency of the initial award process for officers of first and subsequent military rank, as well as the taking up of a position justified in terms of the future responsibilities of the candidates represented. The hearing will be a manifestation and an incentive for candidates to present themselves to the Defence Committee of the National Assembly on Defence and Armed Forces, to respond to questions raised and to develop their vision in fulfilling future functional duties and responsibilities of command and management. The proposal does not conflict and does not violate the existing standards of ZOVS in art. 22, para. 2, p. 19 in the sense of the general leadership of defence and the Armed Forces of the Council of Ministers, art. 27, p. 6 as regards the regulated responsibilities of the Minister of Defence and Art. 33, para. 3, p. 5 under the functions of the Defence Council, as an aid authority of the Minister of Defence. The hearing in the Defence Committee will raise the formal authority of the senior officer's rank and without prejudice to the decision of the Council of Ministers, respectively to the President of the Republic, will give a complete conclusion to the overall process of awarding the candidate and taking up a corresponding position. Changes in art. 160 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria are dictated by those who entered by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in force amendments to art. 138, with which the senior officer's rank for the naval force In order to synchronize the provisions of art. Article 160 138 of the Law requires similar change in art. 160. The following discussion was attended by the MPs: Vladimir Toshev, Konstantin Popov, Georgi Stankov, Slavcho Velkov, Plamen Manushev, Milen Mihov, Spas Panchev, Emil Hristov, Hristo Gadzhev, Simeon Simeonov, Georgi Andreev, Nikolay Tsonkov. The speeches gave an explanation of the Ministry of Defence's concerns. Except for one people who spoke against the changes offered by art. 136 in relation to senior officers, the speakers supported the bill in the first vote. At the same time, it was stressed that, before considering the second-vote bill in plenary, the place of the hearing in the framework of the nomination procedure with senior officers' titles and its format was refined. Mr. Hristo Gazhev stated readiness, on the part of the importers, the requested precision to be carried out between the first and second votes on the bill. 18 MPs took part in the subsequent vote: 15 votes for the vote, 1 votes against the vote and 2 votes abstentions, the Defence Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 754-01-30, submitted by Konstantin Veselinov Popov and a group of MPs on 22 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u177	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy "Please, Mr. Kirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u178	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I suggest to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 702-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2017. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 21 June 2017 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 702-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Lieutenant General O.R. Atanas Zapreyanov Deputy Minister of Defence, Ivaylo Ivanov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Kalina Petkova, Director of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Defence Mr. Atanas Zaprianov. According to the reasons of the Bill, the amendment of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria is required in order to bring its provisions into line with Council Directive 2010/18/EU of 8 March 2010 implementing a Framework Agreement on parental leave. On 5 February 2016, the European Commission launched a pilot procedure against the Republic of Bulgaria for non-compliance with the provision of art. 203, para. 2 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria by Directive 2010/18/EU. According to the procedure, Bulgaria should notify the European Commission of the promised amendment of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria no later than 31 July 2017. According to the importers of the Bill, if the proposed change is adopted by the National Assembly, it will avoid the possibility that the launched pilot procedure of the European Commission will become a formal infringement procedure against our country. According to the current provision of art. 203, para. 3 of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the women of service enjoy in full the rights arising from the general labour law related to the use of various types of leave to raise a small child. Military men can only take some of these types of leave in case of death, severe mother's illness or when they take care of the child themselves. In this sense, the provision of art. 203, para. 3 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria does not comply with Directive 2010/18/EU due to the binding of the use of parental leave introduced by the directive with conditions which are not provided for in that Directive. In the country's general labour law, this parental leave is regulated in art. 167a of the Labour Code and its terms and conditions of use are in full compliance with Directive 2010/18/EU. This requires an amendment to art. 203, para. 3 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in the part of leave under art. 167a of the Labour Code, giving servicemen the opportunity to take this leave under the terms and conditions laid down in the country's common labour law. This will ensure compliance with the provision of art. 203, para. 3 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria by Directive 2010/18/EU. The proposed amendment will ensure equal opportunities for men and women servicemen to take parental leave introduced by Directive 2010/18/EU under the conditions and in accordance with the terms laid down in the country's common labour law, and a synchronization of national law will be achieved with Directive 2010/18/EU. This will also ensure the implementation of the European Commission's recommendation. Deputy Minister Ivaylo Ivanov presented the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, expressing support for the bill. The discussion was attended by MPs Ruslan Toshev and Hassan Ademov. They expressed the satisfaction that the change of the Law brings about equality of women's and men's rights in relation to child rearing. This change makes it possible, in addition to expanding the rights of male servicemen, to ensure a balance between the professional and private lives of those working in the defence system. It is also not to be underestimated that the change will avoid the criminal procedure for non-compliance with the recommendations of the European Commission. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 19 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 702-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u179	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirchev! My fellow Members, due to the running out of time for today's plenary session, I am closing it. Tomorrow we continue with the Temporary Commission's report on cases of unpaid salaries and the draft decision on the Report. Importer is the Temporary Commission on 28 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-05.u180	Tomorrow's a regular meeting at 9:00 a.m., adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
