ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly, I propose to include the following additional points in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly: A draft decision on a change in the leadership of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mustafa Karadaye was imported on 29 June 2017. Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances in the expenditure of funds allocated to the NDK for preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Kornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 28 June 2017. First vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Importers are Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 27 June 2017. We propose this to be point one for Friday, 30 June 2017. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017 and the Council of Ministers on 13 June 2017. We propose this to be point two for Friday, 30 June 2017. Please vote. Vote 182 MPs: 180 against 2, no abstentions. The proposal to include items on the agenda has been accepted. Messages. By applications of 28 June 2017, the MPs Krastina Taskova and Veselin Mareshki informed the President of the National Assembly that they agreed to arouse prosecution on the requests of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. By letters the President of the National Assembly has notified the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of the written consents given by the Members of the National Assembly by applying certified copies of the applications. The National Statistical Institute received information about the business climate in industry, construction, retail and services in June 2017. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We are continuing our work on our legislative work. The next item provided for today as point 1 is: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u2	Mr. Chairman, I ask for a procedure for admission in the hall of Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Mrs. Gergana Beremska, Director of the International Financial Institutions and Cooperation Directorate at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u3	Please vote on the proposed admission to the Chamber. Vote 185 MPs: 181, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the faces to the hall. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u4	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Framework Agreement on a loan between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Bulgaria, a co-financing mechanism for projects implemented with EU funds under operational programmes co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds for the 2014-2020 programming period, No 702-02-01, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2017. At its meeting held on 27 June 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft for ratification of the Framework Agreement on a loan between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Bulgaria, a mechanism for co-financing of projects implemented with EU funds under operational programmes co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds for the 2014-2020 programming period, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Russian Ruzhinova, Head of the Department of Finance and International Financial Institutions and Cooperation at the Ministry of Finance, and Galina Papiusheva State Expert in the same department. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev. With a decision on t. 20 of Protocol No 51 of the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2016 approved draft Framework Agreement for a loan between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe (BRCE) and the Republic of Bulgaria, a co-financing mechanism for projects implemented with EU funds under operational programmes co-financed by the ESI Funds for the 2014-2020 programming period. The Framework Loan Agreement was signed on 21 December 2016. The amount of the loan was 200 million. EUR, provided by BRCE under very favourable financial conditions, will be used in instalments, which will be linked to the estimates of the operational programmes for national co-financing in the medium term and will be provided under the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for the corresponding budget year. The funds may be used in a minimum of two instalments and the maximum amount of the first tranche may not exceed 50 percent of the value of the loan. The aim of the loan is to support the absorption of funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds within the programming period, as well as partly to cover the Bulgarian contribution to financing the implementation of investment projects implemented with funds from Operational Programmes On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Framework Agreement on a loan of 200 million. EUR between the Development Bank of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Bulgaria, a co-financing mechanism for projects implemented by the European Union under operational programmes co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds for the 2014-2020 programming period, is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held on the following results: 13 votes for the draft, 6 votes against the draft and 1 vote abstention. On the basis of the above and the outcome of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Framework Agreement on a loan between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Bulgaria, a co-financing mechanism for projects implemented by the European Union under operational programmes co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds for the 2014-2020 programming period, No 702-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The next report belongs to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u6	♪ I can't believe for a first vote on a Draft Law on the ratification of a Framework Agreement on a loan between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Bulgaria, a co-financing mechanism for projects implemented by European Union funds under operational programmes co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds for the 2014-2020 programming period, No 702-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2017. At its meeting held on 21 June 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of a Framework Agreement on a loan between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Bulgaria, a co-financing mechanism for projects implemented by European Union funds under operational programmes co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds for the 2014-2020 programming period, No 702-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2017. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Russian Ruzhinova, Head of Department, and Mrs. Galina Papuseva, State Expert in the Department of International Financial Institutions and Cooperation. The bill was presented by Mr. Ananiev, who pointed out that the ratification of the draft law created the legal basis for supporting the absorption of funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds. The funds are planned to cover the Bulgarian contribution to the financing of the implementation of the investment projects implemented under the Operational Programmes "Regions in Growth 2014 He noted that the Framework Loan Agreement was signed on 21 December 2016 under the terms of subsequent ratification by the National Assembly. The framework loan agreement amounts to EUR 200 million and will be used in instalments, the amount of which will be determined depending on the capacity to absorb the projects included in the operational programmes. The ratification of the Framework Agreement shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Members of the National Assembly Krum Zarkov, Maria Ilieva, Emil Dimitrov and Daniel Kirilov took part in the discussion. In response to Mr. Zarkov's question concerning the need to conclude a Framework Loan Agreement, given the surplus in the State budget established as at March 2017, Mr. Ananiev noted that under the fiscal rules laid down in the Public Finance Act, the surplus in the fiscal reserve is spent to cover deficits and to repay external debt obligations. He added that financing of the Member States of the European Union, by lending to co-financing projects implemented with EU funds, is an instrument for supporting beneficiaries of the European Structural and Investment Funds, but also a mechanism for controlling the allocation of funds to eligible projects. Ms. Maria Ilieva and Mr. Daniel Kirilov expressed their support to the Bill, pointing out that the co-financing mechanism by means of a loan from the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe is a credit instrument that will contribute to better absorption of future projects included in the Operational Programmes. In response to Mr. Kirilov's question Mrs. Ruzhinova clarified that the Framework Loan Agreement provides for variable and fixed annual interest rate, which is determined according to the choice made with the request for funds, as well as an interest rate for default. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the Council of Europe, 5 votes against the Council of Europe and the Republic of Bulgaria, and without abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft Law on the ratification of a Framework Agreement on a loan between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Bulgaria, a mechanism for co-financing of projects implemented by the European Union under operational programmes co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds for the 2014-2020 programming period, No 702-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. The next report is the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe on a draft law ratifying a Framework Agreement on a loan between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Bulgaria, a co-financing mechanism for projects implemented by the European Union under operational programmes co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds for the 2014-2020 programming period, No 702-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2017. At its regular meeting on 21 June 2017, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for ratification of the Framework Agreement on a loan between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Bulgaria, a co-financing mechanism for projects implemented by the European Union under operational programmes co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds for the 2014-2020 programming period, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The draft was presented by Mr. Kiril Ananiev Deputy Minister of Finance; Mrs. Russian Ruzhinova Head of the Department of Finance at the Department of International Financial Institutions and Cooperation at the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs. Galina Papuseva State Expert in the same Directorate. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by this Draft Law is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the above Agreement signed for the Republic of Bulgaria by the Minister of Finance on 21 December 2016. The loan from the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe for the programming period 2014-2020 should support the absorption of funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds. It is planned to partially cover the Bulgarian contribution to finance the implementation of investment projects implemented with the funds from operational programmes "Regions in growth 2014 " 2020", "Human Resources Development 2014 " 2020" and "Science and education for smart growth 2014 " 2020". The sectors to be targeted are: education and vocational training; assistance for refugees, migrants and displaced persons; protection and restoration of historical and cultural heritage; environmental protection and improvement of urban and rural living conditions. All investments and projects under the above operational programmes will be considered eligible for funding under the co-financing mechanism for projects implemented with European Union funds, even if they include investments which would otherwise be subject to an eligibility study under the standard criteria of the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe. It is pointed out that the priority axis 7 (Regional Road Infrastructure) of the Operational Programme is not to be financed by this Mechanism. The loan granted by the bank will amount to 200 million. Euros. With regard to its absorption, it is indicated that it will take place in a minimum of two instalments, given that the first must not exceed 50% of the total amount. The money transfers will be linked to the estimates of the operational programmes for national co-financing in the medium term and will be provided under the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for the corresponding budget year. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Polina Tsankova-Hristova, Ivelina Vasileva and Kristian Vigenin, who raised questions related to the terms of the loan and its repayment, as well as the real need for this type of co-financing of projects implemented with European funds. In view of the above and as a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposes by 4 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Will we have an importer's opinion? No. I'm opening the debate. For speeches? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose that this ratification project should be withdrawn for two reasons and that, when it fulfils the conditions, it should be brought to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly. What do I mean, fellow Members? First, the government's motives are in five, six sentences for a loan of nearly half a billion leva. What's in the so-called motives? They have, firstly, misleading information and, secondly, lack of information. What are the arguments? Here it is pointed out that the loan is for....................................................................................................... Honourable Members, by opening the Annex to the Framework Agreement II project you will see: "1." Education and vocational training. And be careful, fellow Members! "2." Aid for refugees, migrants and beneficiaries. Why does the Bulgarian government in the motives hide from the MPs that this loan actually goes to migrants and displaced persons? Did you inform the Bulgarian people that we would withdraw such a loan for such a purpose? Where are we going to take a 200 million loan? The euro is nearly half a billion to implement policies of part of the European Union, which have been denied by the whole of Eastern Europe without Bulgaria. Why is he hiding in the motives that this is exactly what this is about? Nowhere in the agreement does it say how much money will go for science, how much will go for the regions and how much for migrants. Well, what is our guarantee as MPs that five levs will not go to "Science and growth" and the other 200 million. Euros will go to solve migrants' problems? That is, the Bulgarian government in the motives misleads the National Assembly and does not say that the key, in the second place [[shows document]] , here's the annex to Framework Agreement No 1... Someone thinks we don't read the whole contract? He's very wrong! This one first. Secondly, where-where are we going to borrow to carry out such operations with migrants? Pay attention! Our country has lost markets since the spillage of North Africa and from the spilling of the Middle East medicines, weapons, machinery and equipment that Bulgaria exported. Now, not only have we lost these markets because of them, not only have migrants come to Europe, but will now force the Bulgarian people to draw a loan to pay their bills! Where are you? Who authorized us to withdraw such loans for that purpose? Then, here is a loan of 200 million. Euros. But, ladies and gentlemen, but every day in the media we understand that Bulgaria's financial situation is great! In front of the Budget Commission, counterpart Ananiev "Deputy Minister of Finance," said the fiscal reserve was 12 billion by the end of the month. Seven hundred million. But I'm sorry, have you heard about any normal family having a $1 million deposit? BGN, and wait for credit to buy a plasma TV for 350 BGN. Or 500 leva.? There's something wrong here. Or it's a 12-billion-dollar balloon. 700 million, which it is, and we've brought it to crying to the Council for Europe for 200 million. However, we are engaging with the Council for Europe because of migrants, to serve, to take on additional loans. Tell me what the truth is, one of both: either we're in a financial tragedy and we're lying, and we're up to 200 million. EUR, or we don't need 200 million. Euros, but we serve? Tell me, what is the answer? Because if we are to serve migrants, there is no way we can support such a decision. To conclude, I want to be brief and clear, we will not vote! I will quote Prime Minister Borisov on the occasion of the withdrawal of a great 1 billion loan. But, of course, for the 16 billion loan, there's no problem at all! He's nice, he's Euro-Atlantic, he's tied to ribbons. What's a billion-dollar loan? This is not serious for the Bulgarian state! So, 16 billion you voted, now you want another 200 million. Why? To watch migrants in Bulgaria! Here's what your prime minister says, and that's why you shouldn't vote. I quote precisely: " Every day we try to explain how disastrous what they do, but they accept it, lie to each other. And the next government will say: give 1 billion, give another 1 billion, and by wasting the debt by several billion, we will become the Greek scenario. said Mr. Boyko Borisov on 1 August 2013. To highlight the 1 billion, another 1 billion, 200 million more, 300 million, the Greek scenario. A second quote, very important, and I quote, from 16 August 2013 on the occasion of a one-billion-dollar loan: Instead of tightening up and collecting revenue and working, they went in the easiest way with loans to spend, and interest on loans and what will then return, principals, leave them to young people. With both hands, I vote for this statement by Mr. Borisov. The question is: will you serve those who have led us into the financial trap to draw loans to watch migrants number one, and secondly, will you listen to your prime minister that you are bringing the next generations into new and new debts? Push the red button! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u11	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Alexandrov next line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Professor Gechev, I treated you with deep respect as one of the major specialists, as one of the teachers of many economists in Bulgaria, but I must make a remark to you, I allow myself that you do not read the materials well and carefully. It is about borrowing for this part of the operational programs and the projects that are implemented, which Bulgaria is obliged to pay 15%, 5%. You know that in every single funding from the European Commission we have national co-financing. In this case, it is about funds that Bulgaria will give under operational programmes. If the operational programs provide funds for them to go to the migrants, they will be co-financed by Bulgaria anyway. Why didn't you ask and why didn't you comment on the terms of this loan? Personally, I would recommend taking more such loans. [[Voices from "BSP for Bulgaria": "Bravo," bravo! "]] Why? Because the interest on which this loan is given is negative. [[Voices from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because if, of course, this 20-year period is fixed, it will become 1% with a five-year grace period. And that $16 billion you're talking about doesn't suit you as a professor to talk about things that are being discussed in rural pubs. This was a refinancing debt, part of which you have taken as a party and ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Second line? National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Gechev, because you have read Appendix 1 by pointing out that it was help for refugees, migrants and beneficiaries, this is in the sectors of action, but you miss reading the eligibility criteria. In these criteria for the loan itself is described: the loan under the Facility is harmonised with the relevant EU programmes, allowing full eligibility and co-financing of projects when eligible under the relevant documents of the operational programmes. All investments and projects eligible under I) ОП "Human Resources Development", ІІ) Опългарски "Science and education for smart growth" and ІІІ) ОП "Regions in growth" will be considered eligible for funding................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In other words, what you have read in Appendix 1 is not the complete information to be presented, and in itself is also a delusion, for which you appeal that the government misled the National Assembly. Because if you were objective enough, you would also read the eligibility criteria for people who can apply for these funds. There, except for the value of 200 million. The total estimated value of all projects, including co-financing from which date it will be implemented and the last date is 2023, is also recorded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u15	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Is there a third line? No. Here you go, Professor. Gechev, for the back. Allow me to inform you that our guests on the balcony are students from the secondary school Panayot Volov in Shumen. Please welcome them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u16	Thank you. Dear colleague, thank you for this question, because this is a high-pitched ball. First, in terms of interest. Dear colleagues, there are no negative interest rates on the banks, and there cannot be. Such a miracle there are no banks are not social organizations. If you read the contract in Bulgarian or English, it is advisable to read in both languages, because there may be some interesting differences sometimes, but there is no difference here. Here he is, Deputy Minister of Finance. We discussed this in the Budget Committee. Where market interest is negative, but not in the case of such loans, the Council of Europe Development Bank has said in the contract that when market interest is negative for a certain period, the interest under this contract is formed like this: starting from zero, right, colleague Ananiev. I mean, I'm definitely telling you, there's no such thing as a miracle, the interest rate is positive. It is true that the interest rates are currently relatively low, but I ask you, and thank you again for the question: Do you currently know Bulgaria's currency reserve for what it is used for? Most of it is in government securities in the same Western countries that teach us and offer us loans. Currently, the Bulgarian people finance the budget deficits and debts of the developed countries in Western Europe and the United States, as the yield on the state securities we have in the reserves is negative. That is, instead of what I say: to use the fiscal reserve, the 200 million. EUR, we are losing money from West funding on negative interest rates on securities, we are also taking loans with positive interest. There's no film like that! Here, this is the antilogy of this loan. If there is no money on the reserve and is lying about the reserve, to come out and say: "False, so we have to take this loan!" Besides, it's a 16 billion loan. Colleague, no one else, Mr. Borisov even said that out of these 16 billion 8 were for old debts, which there are none. But I'm sorry, who said that he would draw 16 billion dollars? The soft word is: quite unreasonable to pay an external debt that is 17 billion instead of paying it for 20 years?! For some reason, he thought of a prime minister to pay for it on Monday morning. This is imbecileness, and our Prime Minister does not do so? he pays his principals and interest every year because he is rational, so no 16 billion for old debts of 16 billion. Finally, colleagues who are from the European Union, I understand that now you will be rotting and it will be very difficult to vote, because it says here: "Help for refugees, migrants and workers." [[Noise and lines by the United Patriarchs.]] And in an hour you'll have to come out and explain to your constituents...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u17	The weather, Professor. Gechev. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u18	...why you voted on this feather. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u19	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Any other speeches? Here you are.. the People's Representative Maria Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Framework Agreement on a loan between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Bulgaria aims at partial co-financing under three operational programmes. The Council of Europe Development Bank was established in 1956 as the Social Development Fund [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] and only since 1999 it has become a bank. Bulgaria has been a member of the Bank since 1994, together with 40 out of the 47 member states of the Council of Europe. This Bank provides loans to its members to finance projects that comply with certain criteria: sectoral, social, financial. I say this for a reason, but to stress that this is not a simple loan, but a mechanism for financing projects, a tool that is used in Europe to create favourable conditions and to use structural investment funds effectively. This mechanism is harmonised with the relevant European Union programmes and its positives are expressed in the full eligibility and co-financing of projects that have already been approved for funding under the operational programmes. In this sense, projects, if they were not financed through this mechanism, would be subject to an additional eligibility study. With regard to the fiscal reserve, yes, it is really good.......................................................................................... BGN, but both I and you know that this figure is not actually a constant that, under the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, at the end of the year, we are obliged to have no less than 4.5 billion, that according to the new European requirements, it is necessary to allocate resources to ensure the security of the banking system in the event of a possible crisis, and that when we talk about favourable conditions under a mechanism which many Member States use, it is logical for the government to use this resource in order to achieve efficiency in the absorption of European funds. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u21	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill ratifying a Framework Agreement on a loan between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Bulgaria, a co-financing mechanism for projects implemented by the European Union under operational programmes co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds for the 2014-2020 programming period. Vote 180 MPs: 112, against 60, abstention 8. The bill was passed in the first vote. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u22	Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask for a procedure on the grounds of art. 80, t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to allow a second vote on the Bill today.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u23	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 183 MPs: 118, against 58, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ivanov, please present the bill for the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u24	Project! LAW on the ratification of a Framework Agreement on a loan between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Bulgaria, a co-financing mechanism for projects implemented by the European Union under operational programmes co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds for the 2014-2020 programming period A single member. It ratifies the Framework Agreement on a loan between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Bulgaria, a co-financing mechanism for projects implemented by the European Union under operational programmes co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds for the 2014-2020 programming period, signed on 21 December 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u25	Thank you. You have the floor to speak. There aren't any. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the bill to a second vote. Vote 182 MPs: 116, against 58, abstention 8. The law has been passed in a second vote. The next item is a follow-up from yesterday: FIRST READING OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PUBLIC PRESENTATION OF PRINCIPAL CARE. The report by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism was presented to you yesterday by the President of the Commission. We are now continuing with the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u26	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, No 754-01-10, submitted by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and Danail Kirilov on 25 May 2017. At a meeting held on 15 June 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the bill mentioned. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Tsvetanka Mihailova, Director of the Directorate of the Financial Markets and of the Financial Supervision Commission: Anna Andonova, Director of the Directorate of Legal Affairs; of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange, Ivan Takev, Executive Director, and Georgi Bulgarian member of the Board of Directors; of the Central Depository and Vasil Golemanski Executive Director; of the Fund for the Guarantee of Banks in Borislav Stratev, member of the Board of Directors; and of the Association of Banks in Bulgaria. The bill was presented by the MP Delyan Dobrev. The Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Public Offering of Securities aims to achieve the development of a stable capital market in the country, as well as to overcome, identified in recent years, problems in the practice of implementing the law. The bill provides for the following changes: 1. The arrangements for the public offering of securities and admission of securities to trading on a regulated market shall offer: - a change in the definition of public offering of securities, increasing the number of persons from 100 to 150; - introduce a new exemption from the obligation to publish a securities issue prospectus whose total value within the European Union is less than the remaining equivalent of 1 million. EUR, with the threshold calculated for a period of 12 months; the period for examining and ruling the Financial Supervision Commission on applications for confirmation of prospectuses of issuers who do not have securities admitted to trading on a regulated market and have not offered public securities, thereby facilitating the access of companies to a regulated market; - to ease the regulatory requirements for the publication of the notice initiating a public offering of securities, in order to minimise the costs for issuers of securities and avoid duplication of information, while ensuring a sufficient level of awareness to investors in securities. 2. In the framework of the Investor Compensation Fund it is proposed: - to participate in the Management Board of the Fund and one representative of the Association of Management Companies, thus providing representation in the management of the Fund of all persons obliged to make contributions to the Fund for the Compensation of Investors (investment intermediaries, investment firms banks and management companies); - specify the provisions relating to determining the amount of the contribution to the Investor Compensation Fund by introducing a minimum threshold for the amount of the total annual contribution of each participant to the fund that manages protected client assets. - extend the assumptions in which compensation is paid to the clients of the investment firm by the Investor Compensation Fund. In this way, protection of the interests of clients of the investment firm shall be ensured in cases where the investment firm is unable, for reasons directly linked to its financial situation, to repay the cash, respectively, to restore the financial instruments to its clients. - release the Investor Compensation Fund from the payment of corporate tax for the recovery and restructuring activities of investment firms. At present, by virtue of art. 77m, para. The Investor Compensation Fund is exempt from the payment of corporate tax for investor compensation activities. The Law on the Recovery and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Intermediaries establishes an Investment Broker Restructuring Fund, which is managed by the Governing Council of the Investor Compensation Fund, and the costs associated with the management of the Investment Broker Restructuring Fund are part of the general administrative costs of the Investor Compensation Fund. 3. The arrangements for the primary public offering of bonds and their admission to trading on a regulated market shall offer: - to introduce an obligation for the issuer to assist the trustee of the bondholders in the preparation and conduct of the General Assembly of the bondholders; - regulate the possibility of settling the relationship between the bondholders in relation to the costs of enforcement of the issuer's assets for claims on the bondholders, providing that the costs are to be allocated by a decision of the General Assembly of the bondholders, unless otherwise agreed under the terms of the issue or in an agreement between the bondholders; - establish rules relating to the making of changes in the conditions under which the bonds are issued and the early repayment of the bond issuances; - to introduce minimum requirements for quorum and a majority of the General Assembly at which such change is decided; - enter a deadline for admission of changes in the conditions under which the bonds were issued and in the parameters of the issue; - regulation of nullity of the decisions of the general assembly of bondholders for a change in the terms under which the bonds were issued and in the parameters of the issue in cases where the changes are not provided for in the prospectus and the procedure for this is not complied with; - extend the circle of persons who can be a confidant of the bondholders by regulating the possibility of being a bank with its registered office in a Member State of the European Union as well as an investment firm within the meaning of art. 8, para. 2 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act; - as a type of bond issue guarantee, the insurance shall be explicitly indicated by introducing the requirement to conclude it with an insurance company with a minimum rating. The insurance will only be accepted as collateral when the insurer has committed unconditionally for the entire term of the insurance contract, regardless of whether the premium is fully paid. No additional funds from the state budget are needed for the implementation of the Bill. Following a discussion of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Public Offering of Securities, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities, No 754-01-10, submitted by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and Danail Kirilov on 25 May 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimova. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs remains. Here you go, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, No 754-01-10, submitted by Delyan Dobrev and Danail Kirilov on 25 May 2017. At its meeting on 31 May 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities, No 754-01-10, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev and Danail Dimitrov Kirilov on 25 May 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Alexander Tsvetkov, Director of the Directorate for Coordination, Analysis and Policy of the Regulatory and Supervisory Activities and the Financial Supervision Commission. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr Kirilov, who pointed out that it aims to improve the investment environment and the capital market in the country, protect investors' interests and ease the administrative burden for public companies and issuers of securities. The Bill proposes changes in the arrangements for the public offering of securities and their admission to trading on a regulated market. The provisions on the activities of the Investor Compensation Fund shall be revised. The proposed changes increase the number of persons to whom the securities offer information is provided, from 100 to 150 for non-public issue, an exception to the obligation to publish a securities issue prospectus whose total value within the European Union is less than EUR 1 000 000, and a reduction in the time limit for examining and issuing the Financial Supervision Commission on applications for confirmation of issuer prospectuses, shall be introduced. The bill provides for the participation of a representative of the Association of Management Companies in the Investor Compensation Fund, providing representation in the management of all persons who are obliged to make contributions to it. The draft introduces a minimum threshold of the total annual contribution of each participant to the Investor Compensation Fund, as well as the exemption of the Fund from the payment of corporate tax for the recovery and restructuring activities of investment firms. The issuer shall be obliged to redeem at the request of an issue value bond issuer where they are not admitted to trading on a regulated securities market. Mr. Kirilov pointed out that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law specify the conditions under which bonds are issued, as well as the parameters of the issue, with the aim of ensuring greater protection of the bondholders. He added that a project leader is the principle of proportional repayment of each bond issued in the case of partial early repayment of the bond issue, and that an extension of the circle of persons who may be a trustee of the bondholders is also proposed. In order to increase transparency in decision-making, the provisions on the conduct of the general meeting of shareholders of the public company shall be supplemented by additional obligations for persons managing it and representing it and establishing requirements for the record of the meeting held. In relation to the objectives laid down by the Law, the Insurance Code, the Financial Instruments Markets Act, the Deposit Guarantee Act in banks, the Special Bets Act, the Commercial Law and the Law on the Activities of Collective Investment Schemes and other collective investment undertakings are also envisaged. Mr. Tsvetkov noted that the legislative changes reflect the objectives set by the strategy for development of the Bulgarian capital market since 2016 and are in implementation of the Financial Supervision Commission Strategy for the period 2016 - 2018. Members of the National Assembly Danail Kirilov, Krum Zarkov and Emil Dimitrov took part in the discussion. The majority of the MPs expressed their support for the Bill and some of them united around the opinion on the need to refine individual provisions. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for a vote, 1 vote against a vote, and 5 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities, No 754-01-10, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev and Danail Dimitrov Kirilov on 25 May 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Kalfin. Will we have an importer's opinion? Here you are, Mr. Dobrev. An importer's opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! In just a few minutes, I will point out that this Bill has been drawn up mainly by the Financial Supervision Commission and by all interested parties. The capital market is extremely important for the development of the economy in the country. We have no dispute with any of the parliamentary groups represented. The bill was supported unanimously in both the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Budget and Finance. It is part of the election programs of at least two of the parliamentary groups represented by GERB, as the largest, and BSP, as the second parliamentary group. It is also supported, of course, by colleagues from the other parliamentary groups. The changes are mainly related to shortening the deadlines, simplifying the procedures, applying in the Bulgarian legislation two directives of the European Union adopted just a few months ago within the European Union. They provide a number of reliefs in terms of raising capital for small companies up to one million euros by absolving the process and eliminating the requirement to develop a prospectus for the primary public offering of securities, i.e. reducing including the costs for those small companies that will try to raise capital through the capital market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Bulgarian BSP will support the Bill at first reading. We believe that this is a bill that will lead to the development of the capital market. We believe that this should be a common theme of all the nationally represented parliamentary groups, because there is indeed a problem in the country. There is a problem with the development of the capital market and it is not normal in a Member State of the European Union that the main part of the financing of the Bulgarian enterprises is carried out precisely by the banking sector. We believe that the proposed amendments to the Law will indeed lead to greater transparency and activate the capital market. For the development of the capital market, the two biggest political parties for Bulgaria and GERB clearly commented on their proposals. I believe that we can find a common point and it is through this Law that we show that when it comes to a national cause, we may also have concrete proposals. However, this does not mean that no proposals will be made between first and second readings. On the contrary, from the BSP for Bulgaria we are ready with proposals and, of course, with references and changes in the remaining laws, which concern precisely the development of the capital market. We also believe that it is high time to start modern legislation in Bulgaria to help Bulgarian enterprises. The parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will support this bill. We'll make our suggestions. The good thing is that this may finally be the first draft bill in this National Assembly, which will be adopted by both major parliamentary groups. It is nice and comforting for the Bulgarian business that when it comes to its development, they can receive support from the Bulgarian Parliament in a law which, I stress, is really necessary; a law on which has been working for a long time, heard almost all countries. There may be proposals between first and second readings, but philosophy is good. This is the right philosophy and this has shown the rapprochement between the two political parties during the election debate that for the development of the capital market should be viewed from a pragmatic point of view so that Bulgarian enterprises feel free and can raise funding, as is happening in Poland and Romania. At first reading, the Bill will be supported by us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Any other lines? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, No 754-01-10, submitted by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and Danail Kirilov on 25 May 2017. 125 MPs voted: 122, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO CHANGE THE COMMISSION'S MANAGEMENT ON EUROPEAN QUESTIONS AND CONTROL OF EUROPEAN FUNDS. On the basis of art. 88, para. 1 The Rules for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly Mr. Karadayi, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, has introduced a draft decision on a change in the management of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Imren Ismetova Mehmedova as Vice-President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u34	They voted 134 MPs: 134, no opposition and no abstentions. The draft decision has been unanimously adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE FACTS AND ASSISTANCES IN THE DISCLOSURE OF A VEHICLE PRESENTED TO THE NDK'S TARGET FOR THE SUBSTITUTION OF THE BULGARIAN PRESENTATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION. Mr. Boychev on behalf of the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have submitted to your attention a draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Commission to investigate all the facts and circumstances of the spending of the allocated funds for the National Palace of Culture on the preparation and implementation of the Bulgarian Presidency in 2018. I would like to remind you that much of the events envisaged during these six months when Bulgaria will chair the Council of the European Union will host the main building of the National Palace of Culture. In this regard, we have two decisions of the Bulgarian government. One gives 17 million, and from this month we have another decision of the Bulgarian government, which gives 28 million to prepare the main building of the National Palace of Culture for the Bulgarian Presidency. Parallel to this, several plot lines develop. Directly responsible Minister Lilyana Pavlova, who until yesterday was the principal of the National Palace of Culture, claims that the National Palace of Culture is poorly managed, discipline, order is lacking and deadlines are not respected. As a counterpoint of this, the former head of NDK Miroslav Borshos says: "I refuse to sign public contracts under pressure, on the edge of the law and against the rules. Over the past two months, the entire management of the process of preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency has been in chaos. The implementation of the Presidency is at stake. That's what he says. What remains of the Bulgarian opposition in these allegations of high-ranking officials, apart from asking for a committee of inquiry, in the Bulgarian Parliament to check all these circumstances and facts. What does it mean: the pressure to enter into public contracts beyond the rules and the law? Information came out in the media, and since yesterday the prosecution in its press release confirmed that there have been violations regarding the spending of these funds. I recall that with the two decisions of the Council of Ministers they are targeted at the NDK and are only for the activities of the preparation of the Presidency. It turns out that these funds have also been spent on other purposes. The subject of activity of that committee must also be the verification of these facts and circumstances. There is also a delay in all deadlines for the preparation and completion of the construction and installation activities in the NDK building. In general, if I have to return the tape even further back for just a week or two, I can quote another exchange of lines between Minister Pavlova and Mr. Borsosh. Minister Pavlova goes out and says: "There is no international press centre for holding the Presidency. Additional resource and time should be provided for its construction and equipment. Immediately after that, Mr. Borshos comes out and says: "On the contrary, the project documentation provides for the construction of a press centre. " The question is: which of the two lies and deceives society? I will not dwell here at all on the questions: who and how has entrusted the preparation of the project, its scope and the work-technical project for the reconstruction of the NDK? Are there any papers issued at all and concerted construction papers for this? Is copyright protected? All these activities, which could ultimately lead to the following: the implementation of the Bulgarian Presidency could be jeopardised. As unfortunately, it is said, ladies and gentlemen: there is a real chance of embarrassing ourselves in front of foreigners. The big question facing this Commission is: how and how are the Bulgarian taxpayers' money spent? That is why we insist that such a type of committee of inquiry be established, and given that it will check the activities of a minister, the head of the National Palace of Culture, higher than the Council of Ministers, is only the Bulgarian Parliament. I think this is where all these facts and circumstances can become known and can be established: is there such pressure being put on by someone to circumvent the law, how and how were the contractors defined in the construction works? What is the readiness for the holding of the Bulgarian Presidency at all? I hope this committee will receive support from the plenary. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. I open the debate, you have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u37	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! GERB's parliamentary group has always been about transparency and our political decision is to accept your proposal. Because yesterday's claims that GERB will not support the establishment of a temporary committee for all that has been exported to the public under the Presidency and the repair activities in the National Palace of Culture are your opportunity to create false news. But what we state today categorically after yesterday's decision, which there is of the parliamentary group, together with the President of the Political Party GERB and Prime Minister of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, is the rule of transparency for us, and when there are topics that have a wide public response, to be discussed and to support any initiative, regardless of which parliamentary group it is. As for the motives and the way in which they were presented just minutes ago, I can say the following: there is an interim audit report, which is of an independent body, Minister Lilyana Pavlova has complied with it and has made the relevant report with which she has briefed Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. All that has been undertaken as an action by the executive is to be able to actually catch up with the delay and, if there are certain procedures which are suspected of unlawfulness, to be brought into the relevant legal rules and to be carried out and finalised in the appropriate order. So there's absolutely no topic that can bother us. This is the approach that each parliamentary group should express when there are enough doubts or the public is interested to understand the truth and there is no better place than the Bulgarian Parliament. And I don't know, colleagues on the left, why you went into such a defense thesis yesterday, not to have a committee of inquiry about everything that's going on with the upcoming spending of 1 billion. 500 million. lv. Because both you and we and Bulgarian citizens are familiar daily with scandals that have occurred in NATO countries where procedures have been conducted to buy this technique, which wanted to be done by this Commission and what has been announced.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u38	What does that have to do with anything, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u39	I am merely comparing the behavior yesterday by the parliamentary group of GERB and the parliamentary group of BSP. And today, when you said that you would back down and give your defense thesis with the establishment of a new committee of inquiry, we stand before you and say that we agree, we will support it. I think it is better to take a vote on the composition of this committee. The sooner it begins to work, the sooner all doubts will be dropped. Or, if there is someone who has broken the law, and I think there is no political power either with you, if there were political umbrellas, there is no political party GERB and we have proved it for all these years. Thank you. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, of course we welcome your desire to support this Commission and we believe that this is right. Perhaps it would have been nice to have supported the committee, which we want to create about the way Bulgarian highways are being built, but ultimately the API and the prosecution are already doing their job. Then the truth would come out, too. But my line to you is this: where did you see the false news? In that the prosecution is investigating and has pre-trial proceedings for the fact that Lilyana Pavlova, the minister, is willing to fire Mr. Borsosh because of incompetence and delays in the deadlines or that Mr. Borsosh said that he was being pressured to sign public contracts? Where did you get the BSP here in the fake news?! That's my cue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Are there any other lines? I won't. Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u43	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, yes, indeed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u44	Stayev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u45	Mr. Stoynev, I'm sorry. After that, Mr. Boychev, if he feels offended, may take the floor and ask for a personal explanation, but my tone is completely well-meaning and there is absolutely nothing that could provoke any reaction in this direction. Mr. Stoynev, I can tell you that the false news is always putting something that corresponds to some facts that are true, but yesterday's statement by your parliamentary group and from the highest political level, there were allegations that GERB will not support and there is no political will to fight corruption... [[Replys from the BSP for Bulgaria "There was a question. "]] Yeah, even assuming it was a question. Please, Mr. Chairman, let's, when we speak from the parliamentary stand, have some respect. [[(Radio.) Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u46	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u47	What is important is that you know that we are about transparency, we are about to have such a committee and we will support your proposal. From now on, this is countering your attempts at manipulation, for suggestions you make in the public domain. Because if GERB respected this practice, which you did in the years when you ruled, I think we would have been stopped by the EU funds a long time ago. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] , and you see that in the three mandates of GERB the EU funds are being absorbed [[(BSP's line for Bulgaria:.........................................................................................................]] and currently Prime Minister Borisov enjoys the greatest authority of a Bulgarian politician on the international stage. The very fact that you made these work visits, for which you once did not say congratulations for all that the Prime Minister and the Bulgarian Government are doing in connection with the Presidency, which is coming from 1 January 2018. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know that Parliament's rating is not high. It's a public fact. On the other hand, there is a paradox that it is Parliament that becomes the place where some justice can be achieved, some objective truth, some public facts and data that will bring clarity, calmness and predictability to society. That should be clear. Perhaps many people do not understand it, but more and more often we are witnessing this as far as the Temporary Committee on uranium pollution is concerned, and now about this case. I thank both Mr. Tsvetanov and Mr. Stoinev for expressing the same position. Keep in mind that our time is very small, the time is very short. We don't have time to politicize this issue. I'd like to open a clamp. In fact, it is strange how, being of the same opinion, very often on both sides of the Chamber began to confront each other, expressing the same ones. The issue is very serious, it can be a very small fact that it should be seen how the construction, reconstruction and other activities in the National Palace of Culture have been going, because the big task before Bulgaria is the political representation and the management of this process and the presidency since January. But we often, when we lose the details, start clouding the big picture. So I really ask you to support such a Commission. I think it should objectively, clearly and honestly present the facts. The very fact that we are creating such a Commission, in some way we are already giving a bad signal to our partners from Europe that Bulgaria is once again rotating in a circle. So let us create this Commission, let us support it and finish the big task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u50	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u51	My fellow Member, I did not intend to take the floor, but to ask you a rhetorical question: what is the Commission doing then on European Affairs and Control of European Funds that we are creating this Commission? That was the question... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u52	Please don't call!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u53	...that's what I was going to tell you. Yesterday you asked all the time the question: what does the Defence Committee do? Now I'm asking you that question. We multiply committee after committee on every yellow headline in the papers. In my opinion, this does not really make a good image of Parliament as a whole, nor of our country before the European Union, in view of the upcoming Presidency. Obviously, this way, the publicity spells, the transparency spells, will give birth to this Commission, and I don't think it will do anything good.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u54	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Are there any other lines? Mr. Kostadinov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In my opinion, my colleague's line proves my first thesis that our society is in a critical public state and looks to parliament with some hope. That is the answer to that question. I think we should meet expectations and bring some clarity here. This increases the role of parliament and does not keep people away from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Naturally, I will support the creation of such a Commission, but as it has formed this week as the week of the committees of inquiry, I believe that everyone should have the same approach to the cases we are discussing. Since yesterday's Commission was established on a proportionate basis, I am making the following proposal for a change to point two of the submitted draft decision, namely: "2." The interim committee is set up on a disproportionate principle, of 19 members in total, in proportion: the parliamentary group of PP GERB 8 representatives, the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Welcome to the public representative Pavel Shopov. Let's wish him a happy name day! He's safe. He's safe. [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Happy name day to all who bear the names of the holy apostles Peter and Paul! There are other colleagues of ours from all parliamentary groups. Maybe on this festive day for me it's not right for me to go out and make speeches, but I'm tempted. You know, fellow Members, suddenly there was some awkward silence in the Chamber. I'm going out to say a few words about the psycho-climate in this parliament. What's been going on since the beginning. And why is that? It's not bad that it happened today. It happened because the opposition had sharpened itself today to develop another dramatic brawl, rage. At the moment, I particularly disappointed Mr. Kutev, I think. [[Applause and laughter from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u60	Please, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u61	And other colleagues, especially the younger ones, who are sharpened, sharpened, instructed, prepared, all night long the points for today! [[Applause and laughter from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u62	We're not sleeping!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u63	And all of a sudden, we, the government, accept this proposal! Yesterday's whole day of artillery training on TV screens, today we read in the newspapers! [[Applause and laughter from GERB and OP.]] And today some would appear, some would, like in a guerrilla squad, cover the squad, attack the enemy, grope it, and suddenly it was a blow in empty space! [[Radio, noise and lines.]] I think today should be a lesson to us all. I'm not saying anything wrong. That's your strategy, we know that's it. He must be annoyed by the esteemed Mr. Chairman, he is a major figure! [[Happy excitement, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] To be hit by us, the United Patriarchs, constantly because you have decided, but very wrong I am telling you that we are the weak link. We know that. That's not gonna happen. I'm going out to say all this and we'll do this another time. I'd go a long way in this relationship. Mrs. Nino is smiling, she's happy with what's going on so far. We often take the bait and play in circuses here. From this point of view, I would like to invite all of us to have more wisdom, to have more understanding. Issues and problematic issues should be solved as we are today. I also appeal to those in charge to act wisely as they did today. Commission yes, committee. A commission we can do for Buzludja, for example, and I hope you agree. [[Applause and laughter from GERB and OP.]] Who brought Buzludja to this state? Who did this mastodon, this huge project? What kind of funds were thrown there? Who are the guilty persons? Who? Let's say who's responsible for this Buzludja condition! What are the prospects for Buzludja? Did the Bulgarian people deprive themselves of...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u64	Please, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u65	...a huge asset in the face of Buzludja who would have business prospects?! All this needs to be discussed very seriously. Here's an example. Let's make another committee. Let's set up a committee and solve our problems. In this plan, with this speech, I am trying to invite everyone to more wisdom, more constructiveness and issues, problems to solve them, as we are solving them today with the creation of this Commission. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! However, I think I owe a few words in my capacity as President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. First of all, I would like to thank the group of BSP for left Bulgaria. [[CHEERING IN GERB]] Excuse me, BSP for Bulgaria, for the fact that... Look, we're left after all, right? You don't question that. I would like to thank the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria for making this proposal, as well as the GERB parliamentary group for supporting it, because it is very important to remove any doubts about the repairs in the National Palace of Culture, which are seen as an essential part of the preparation for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Because the last thing we want for every meeting that takes place there is the first and interesting part of getting acquainted with the building to be that there have been serious scandals and problems with public procurement, doubts about corruption and so on. I hope that the Commission will clarify all these issues. And from now on, the work will continue in a way that will allow adequate completion of the activities there. I would also like to draw attention to the question that the Committee on European Affairs is composed of 10 members. It could not, in such details, address the issue that we are commenting on today. And in the end, it is not her job to deal with such aspects that arise aside from the real preparation for the Presidency. We will, of course, along with this, hold to be informed both with the SANS report and the activities that the prosecution has carried out so far and with the Commission's ongoing work, which will be set up today. I take this opportunity to say that we will also address the question of how work and coordination on these issues will continue from now on. I also use the case to address the ruling majority as soon as possible, but also through the parliamentary tribune to the executive power to find as soon as possible the ways in which the Minister of Culture is adequately incorporated in this process, because the most important thing to be done in the NDK by the end of this year is the preparation, repairs related to the Presidency, and thus, in which the work is currently structured and the principal becomes the Minister of Culture, it becomes very complicated to carry out this control. So as soon as possible, this must be done. In addition, I think it is appropriate for the new old leadership of the NPC to present a clear plan on which the activities will continue from now on. We cannot, in the period of activity of our Commission, which we are creating today, have any pauses. The work must go on speeding up, because what is clear and what is beyond doubt is that there are significant delays in part of the activities and we need to have a very clear plan on how this ends, apart from the issue of violations, public procurement, corruption, ambiguities and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. Once again, let me introduce you to the Project Decision: Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances in the expenditure of funds provided to the National Palace of Culture for preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He established a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances in the spending of funds allocated to the National Palace of Culture for preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. 2. The temporary committee is set up on a parite principle by two MPs from each parliamentary group. And then there's a choice of leadership. "3." The temporary committee shall be set up for a period of one month. This is the solution project. Before that, there was a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Paul Hristov to establish the Commission on a proportionate basis with the corresponding quotas for each parliamentary group as follows: First, the numerical composition is to be 19 members. ratio: political party group GERB 8 representatives, parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Pavel Hristov. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u69	What proposal shall we vote on?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u70	Propose a proportionate principle. This is all we are voting on the proposal for a proportionate principle. Please suspend the vote and declare the result. They voted 183 MPs: for 98, against 64 and abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u71	Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u72	Negative vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm taking this opportunity to justify my negative vote. Wide public response has the events that have been in the last days. After all, the good news is that the National Palace of Culture is now under jurisdiction, the principal is already the Ministry of Culture and the Minister. Our proposal for a draft decision that you have announced, Mr. Tsvetanov, that you will support was for the formation of a committee of inquiry, which is on a money-based basis and you are currently changing the proposal for a decision by guaranteeing a majority in this committee of inquiry. We're doing the right thing, aren't we? The numbers, by collecting them, of 19 members, the ruling majority will rely on 10 of them. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u74	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u75	... which, in my own right, personally raises doubts about the outcome of this Commission's work as a majority, but you have the opportunity to correct yourself. Because you, Mr. Tsvetanov, are saying something from the stands and then you're doing something different, at least with the vote we just made. I therefore call on you to think and support the opposition from the largest opposition group of the BSP for Bulgaria to be the chairman of this Commission. Then you will prove that you want to give the public and the people the truth...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u76	Mr. Iankov, this is not a negative vote, but a proposal and a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u77	...only the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u78	We are voting on the Commission's first two points. Please vote. The composition and leadership of the parliamentary groups will then be proposed. I put to the vote the draft decision without leadership and composition for now. Please suspend the vote and declare the result. Vote 184 MPs: 184, no opposition and no abstentions. The first and second points as the second point are with the adopted proportional principle proposed by the MP Paul Hristov are adopted. We are moving on to proposals for composition and leadership of the Temporary Commission. You have the floor. Mr. Tsvetanov, are you proposing?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u79	No, Ivaylo Konstantinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u80	Ivaylo Konstantinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! From the parliamentary group of the Political Party GERB we propose as members of the Temporary Commission: Diana Ivanova Yordanova for Chairman, Snezana Georgieva Dukova for Vice-President [[noise and lines]] , Diana Dimova Savateva, Mladen Nikolov Shishkov, Petya Tsvetanova Avramova, Georgi Zaprev Dinev, Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov, Toma Lubomirov Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u82	Thank you. From the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u83	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Atanas Kostadinov and Mr. Rumen Gechev, Mr. Zhelyo Boychev, Mr. Nikola Dinkov, Mr. Lyubomir Bonev and Mr. Dimitar Georgiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. You have the floor, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We propose as members of the parliamentary committee the MPs Yordan Apostolov and Margarita Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u86	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. From the parliamentary group "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" "The People's Representative Yordan Tsonev." You have the floor, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, given the importance in view of the public interest of this committee, we offer two ladies from the parliamentary group of the House of Rights and Freedoms and Mrs. Velislava Krasteva and Mrs. Adlen Shevked.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u88	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the political party parliamentary group, we propose Dora Stoyanova Hristova as a member and vice-president.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-29.u90	There is no Vice-President provided for in the draft decision, which means only for a member. Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. [[Noise and lines.]] If you want, offer her as chairman. [[(Radio.) Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.)]] You don't have a proposal in the draft decision, I don't see a vice-president. [[Heckling]] Firstly, we vote on the composition of the committee. Please vote as proposed by the Parliamentary Tribune by the relevant representatives of the parliamentary groups. Please vote on the composition of the committee. Vote 187 MPs: 187, no opposition and no abstentions. The Vice-President of the Commission has been unanimously adopted. The first proposal for the President of the Commission was made by GERB's parliamentary group for the MP Diana Yordanova. Please vote on the proposal for the President of the Commission to be Parliamentary Representative Diana Yordanova. Vote 186 MPs: 99 against 58, abstention 29. I am now voting on the second proposal for President. It was made by the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and for the MP Atanas Kostadinov. Please vote. Vote 187 MPs: 79, against 78, abstention 30. With more votes for the President of the Commission was elected National Representative Diana Yordanova. I put to the vote the entire Project for a decision together with the proposed and adopted proposal by the National Representative Paul Hristov, as well as with the management and composition of the Temporary Commission and a period of one month. The leadership is understood as the President who was elected, and this is Diana Yordanova. Please vote. Vote 186 MPs: for 186, against and abstention there is no. The draft decision has been unanimously adopted. Parliamentary control messages on 30 June 2017, Friday 11:00. We begin first with a debate on questions: The first debates are on asking the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Ivan Genov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova about the current policy of the Ministry of Energy for guaranteeing the electricity security of Bulgaria. The second debates are on the questions of the MPs Mihail Hristov, Anton Kutev and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov, on the policies for solving the problems of people with disabilities and the concrete actions related to them. Then we continue with answers to questions and questions: - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer one question from the MP Veska Nencheva; - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will answer one question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer one question from the MP Slavcho Velkov; Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer a question from the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Irena Anastasova; Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov will answer three questions from the MPs Miglena Alexandrova, Nikolai Ivanov, Ivan Genov, and Ivo Hristov; Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer two questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Georgi Yordanov; Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer four questions from the MPs Ivelina Vassileva, Dzhevdet Chakarov, Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov, and Dora Yankova; Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the MPs Vesela Lecheva and Ivan Chenchev; Interior Minister Valentin Radev will answer one question from the MP Pencho Milkov and Krum Zarkov; Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov will answer eight questions from the MPs Veselin Mareshki, Krastina Taskova, Ivelina Vassileva, Stefan Burgev, two questions, Dimitar Danchev, and Dimitar Danchev and Rumen Gechev; - The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer seventeen questions from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev, Anton Kutev and Stoyan Mirchev, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Manol Genov, Nikolay Ivanov and Ivan Genov, Sevim Ali, Nikola Dinkov, Stefan Burgev On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to a question by the National Representative Teodora Halacheva and to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Kalin Vassilev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question by the National Representative Atanas Kostadinov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to a question by the National Representative Dora Yankova; - the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to a question by the National Representative Atanas Kostadinov; Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answers to three questions are postponed: from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov to the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev; the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova; and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov. Due to the lack of the country, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria will not take part in the parliamentary control meeting "Boyko Borisov, Deputy Prime Minister of Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs" "Ekaterina Zaharieva," the Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 "Lilyana Pavlova," the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova, and the Minister of Economy Emil Karanikov. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda of today's meeting, I am closing it. Tomorrow, June 30, 2017, we continue from 9:00 p.m. with legislative activity. [[PHONE RINGING]]
