ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, allow me to present to you the draft work programme of the National Assembly for the period from 28 June to 30 June including: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2017. The importer is the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2017. He was adopted at the first vote on 21 June 2017. 2. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of a candidate for a Vice-President, head of the Board of Directors and of a candidate for a Vice-President, Head of the Board for Financial Supervision, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importer of the Budget and Finance Committee on 27 June 2017. 3. Draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Commission to study the implementation of the selection procedure for a new type of combat aircraft. The people's representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 27 June 2017. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2017. 5. First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Military Monuments Act. People's representative Valentin Kasabov and a group of MPs on 14 June 2017. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. The people's representative Delyan Dobrev and the people's representative Danail Kirilov on 25 May 2017 7. Draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement on a loan between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Bulgaria, a co-financing mechanism for projects implemented with EU funds under operational programmes co-financed by the ESI Funds for the 2014-2020 programming period. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2017. 8. Parliamentary control, including: firstly, debates on asking, No 754-05-10 of 17 May 2017, by the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Ivan Genov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on the current policy of the Ministry of Energy for guaranteeing the electricity security of Bulgaria; Second, debates on asking, No 754-05-17 of 25 May 2017, by the MPs Mihail Hristov, Anton Kutev and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on the policies for solving the problems of people with disabilities and the concrete actions related to them; and finally answer questions and questions to ministers. Please vote. Vote 189 MPs: 129, against 49, abstention 11. Our work programme for the period 28 June 2017 has been adopted. Messages. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 21 June to 27 June 2017 including: On 21 June 2017, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted. The people's representative Stanislav Stanilov and a group of MPs are importing. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Education and Science. On 21 June 2017, a Report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of administrative courts was received. The Supreme Judicial Council is the importer. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 22 June 2017, a Draft Law for the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Cuba for mutual, free of charge provision of property use for the purposes of diplomatic representations of both Parties was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Foreign Policy and to the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 22 June 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children was adopted. The people's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs are importing. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, and to the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 22 June 2017, a Draft Law amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control was adopted with the National Representative Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. On 22 June 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted. Importer is the People's Representative Konstantin Popov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the leading Defence Committee. On 22 June 2017, a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on Real Estate and Diplomatic Representations of both Parties was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Foreign Policy, as well as to the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 23 June 2017, a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the administration of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs, as well as to the Committee on Budget and Finance, and to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Once again on 23 June 2017, the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016 was received. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The report shall be allocated to the Committee on Health. On 23 June 2017, a Report for the implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016 was received. The Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Health. On 23 June 2017, a draft decision was received in connection with the debates on inquiry, No 754-05-17 of 25 May 2017, by the MPs Mihail Hristov, Anton Kutev and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on policies for solving the problems of people with disabilities. The people's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs are importing. On 26 June 2017, a Draft Law for the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Supreme Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe and the Supreme Union Commander in Chief for the Transformation of the Supplement to the Paris Protocol was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Defence, as well as to the Committees on Foreign Policy, Budget and Finance and Internal Security and Public Order. On 27 June 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature was adopted. Importers are the national representative Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The bill is about to be distributed. On 27 June 2017, a Draft Law for Supplement to the Ministry of Interior Act was adopted. Importers are the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. On 27 June 2017, a draft decision was received to set up a Temporary Commission to investigate the implementation of the selection procedure for a new type of combat aircraft. Importers are the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. On 23 June 2017, three requests were received to the National Assembly from the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov. The first one is with entry No 727-00-9 for granting permission to provoke prosecution against the People's Representative Krastina Nikolova Taskova in pre-trial proceedings No 152 of 2014 on the description of OSlO Varna, prosecutor's file No 156-95 of 2017 according to the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, the Anti-Corruption Unit for a crime committed under art. 213a, para. 2, p. 4 in connection with para. 1 of the Penal Code. The second request is with entry No 727-00-10 for granting permission to provoke prosecution against the People's Representative Plamen Trifonov Hristov in pre-trial proceedings No 152 of 2014 according to the description of OSlO Varna, prosecutor's file No 15-695 of 2017 according to the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, the Anti-Corruption Service for crimes committed under art. 213a, para. 2, p. 4 in connection with para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 26, para. 1 of the Penal Code. The third request is with entry No 727-00-11 to give permission to arouse criminal prosecution against the MP Veselin Naydenov Mareshki in pre-trial proceedings No 152 of 2014 under the description of OSlO Varna, prosecutor's file No 15-695 of 2017 according to the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, the Anti-Corruption Service for crimes committed under art. 213a, para. 2, p. 4 in connection with para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 26, para. 1 of the Penal Code. By letters dated 23 June 2017, the President of the National Assembly informed the Members of the National Assembly of the requests received and the opportunity to get acquainted with them and the attached materials. The request of the Attorney General has been sent to the MPs by their official e-mail. Deputy Prime Minister for Internal Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch and use of a single aircraft and crew of military personnel from the Air Force to carry out special flights to provide air transport to officials. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its order has authorised the passage through the territorial sea, the stay in the inland waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the visit of the port of Varna to a submarine, a rocket boat and a patrol ship from the composition of the Republic of Turkey's Navy for the period from 13 to 24 July 2017 including. The visit of the ships is of a non-military nature and is related to their participation in the multinational teaching of the Naval Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in the international teaching. The notifications were received on 26 June 2017 with entry No 703-09-18 and on 27 June 2017 with entry No 703-09-19 and were submitted to the Defence Commission. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces has been adopted by Decision No 340 of the Council of Ministers of 23 June 2017 authorising for the period from 23 June to 28 July 2017 the passage through and the residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces in connection with the conduct of a multi-national high-visibility exercise. The material was received on 26 June 2017 with entry No 703-00-22 and was submitted to the Defence Commission. The Court of Auditors of the National Assembly received: an updated Programme for the Audit Activity of the Court of Auditors for 2017. The programme was submitted by letter dated 724-00-9 from the President of the Court of Auditors, containing a reasoned change in the name of one of the audit tasks; Opinion on the report on financial management, control and internal audit at the Supreme Judicial Council for 2016. The opinion was submitted by letter No 724-00-8 from the President of the Court of Auditors on the basis of art. 20, para. 4 of the Public Sector Financial Management and Control Act. The materials are made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Sub-Committee on Public Sector Accountability to the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Sub-Committee on Public Sector Accountability to the Committee on Budget and Finance and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. That was the last message. We can move on to our agenda if you don't have any other ideas. There is. [[Noise and lines.]] Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On yesterday Svishtov celebrated 130 years of the first liberated Bulgarian city from Turkish slavery. On that day representatives of all institutions were invited, of course, under the patronage of the President of the Republic, who is the commander-in-chief and we all know that he must be a united nation. On yesterday, the MPs from Veliko Tarnovo's multi-manandaten electoral region were also invited. The Chairman of the National Association of Municipalities, Mayor of Veliko Tarnovo Daniel Panov, was invited. The deputy district governor of Veliko Tarnovo region was invited. And do you know what happened yesterday before the arrival of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria in Svishtov? The MPs who were at the mayor's office discussing the problems that need to be resolved and seeking political consensus, without dividing the MPs into political principles, were deprived of the opportunity to attend this working meeting presented by the Presidential team. It was restricted both to the district governor of Veliko Tarnovo region and also to the MPs and to the President of the National Association of Municipalities Daniel Panov. We ask ourselves a question about the President of the country, who at his election for such a declaration and said he would be president of all Bulgarians, regardless of party affiliation, religion and ethnicity, and would oppose attempts to polarise. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, if we assume that the President of the country has had a confidential conversation with the mayor of the municipality and the management of the municipality, we can take it as a rule that MPs are not allowed to hear this sensitive information that he wants to share, but the meeting is attended by representatives of the presidential institution, including the Chief of Cabinet Ivo Hristov, who, as far as we know from open sources, does not have access to classified information. It remains the feeling in everyone that yesterday, which was the day we were all supposed to be together and that each of us had to give him what we deserved, as representatives of the institutions concerned, to show unity, to show that we can truly be united on such festive days and not divided! And in the 2016 election campaign we know the main motto of our political opponents that President Plevneliev divides the nation that unlike all those who were before President Radev, he will show a new style of the presidential institution. Just to point out that both the late President Zhelev and President Petar Stoyanov, President Georgi Parvanov and President Rosen Plevneliev never allowed themselves to prevent MPs or representatives from the executive at such workshops. This isn't a family, private party! This is a celebration of the whole public of Bulgaria with symbolic host Svishtov municipality. I appeal to all Members of Parliament and, above all, to the Parliament's leadership: Mr. Chairman, my request to you is on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group. I am convinced that with your morals and with your behavior, no one could think that you could get into such a situation. Exactly what is extremely important to know is that yesterday, apart from all these MPs, I am also a MP from Veliko Tarnovo's multi-mandated electoral region, was also the Chairman of BSP Mrs. Cornelia Ninova. Even she and the MPs from the BSP were not allowed to attend this meeting. [[Noise and lines.]] My fellow Members, I believe that all of you, as people's elects, with representatives of government when they come, regardless of which institution, should be allowed and we should have a dialogue. The Constitution is clearly written in Chapter Four: the President is Head of State, he represents the unity of the nation and represents the Republic of Bulgaria in international relations. Can you tell me which action the President filled with functional competence and content the presidential institution yesterday? I say this, and I alarm you worryingly because it is a violation of the Bulgarian Constitution and a disregard for the different opinion. On yesterday, in all likelihood he was provoked by the press conference we gave in Veliko Tarnovo, to which we shared that the necessary 48 signatures were collected to set up a committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u3	Please, not on the agenda, Mr. Tsvetanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u4	Not once in our speech yesterday at the press conference did we mention no country, no firm, but an hour later, the president of my country exchanged words that I never said and accused me of saying that Sweden was a corrupt country. Dear Mr. President! Yesterday, when I was looking for the president on the phone to ask for his decision not to allow representatives of the various institutions, he did not answer. His associate Mr. Koprinkov said it was the decision of the presidential institution and there is no way to comment. I would like to make it clear: I have never, on any occasion, mentioned a country that has been corrupted! We, as MPs, have to decide on spending 1 billion. 500 million. BGN, we are obliged, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, to subject to parliamentary control all that is related to today's agenda. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u5	Please, please! Not on the agenda! [[Relations of MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] Please don't call! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u6	Mr. MP, I just want to make a clear statement and call on the President and the Presidential Institution to read the Constitution. They don't have to read it all because they don't have time, but I just want to ask them to read art. 1: Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary management. I think that's enough for us to comply with the Constitution. [[Strong noise, lines and calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]] When there are improved events not to be inconvenient to the voters and to the people who have elected both the President and the representatives of the local authorities, as well as representatives in the legislative power, as well as representatives of the executive power, which are a function of the parliamentary majority, which elects the Bulgarian government and the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I think we should condemn this act of the President because he is at the beginning of his term of office. [[Noise and lines on the left.]] We know that in the coming years there will be many occasions, all the more so that we have the important Presidency, and believe that division does not contribute to the authority of our country. Division does not contribute to solving problems. And we ask ourselves the question: how can the President of the country solve problems of a municipality that is directly dependent on their discussion in the National Association of Municipalities, and with a solution of the executive power, and with the support of parliament, can these problems be actually, really solved? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]] And I'm sure in the months ahead, the president will find an excuse to apologize for what he did yesterday. I am convinced that he will do it in dignity or at least use again people who either have no access or people who correspond and lower his instructions to administrations in other institutions. I never imagined that the presidential protocol or the presidential institution could seize the functions of the host, in this case Svishtov Municipality, about the way an event can be held. Thank you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let's still be objective. And I can assure you that Svishtov Municipality enjoys the support of all MPs from Veliko Tarnovo multi-mandated electoral area. Even yesterday, questions have been raised about which we have made a commitment that we will seek a solution. We know that this is how MPs and local authorities can work. Both the mayor and the MPs are representatives of the Bulgarian voters and will be able to actually solve the problems. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I believe that you too can be sympathetic to this process. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, but before that, please, in the manner of conduct. If it's about agenda topics, I made a two-time remark. I'm saying this to spare you the procedure. You can hear the phonograph and see in the record that twice I made a remark not to be on topics on the agenda...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u8	Can you give me a word on how to conduct for 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u9	I'll give it to you in two minutes, not even 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. However, let me also say, on behalf of our group, in the manner of keeping, note those who are speaking with a declaration on behalf of a group that they are not entitled to make declarations on items that are on the agenda of the National Assembly. I know you're worried. I know it's hard. Mr. Tsvetanov puts you in an awkward position, but please pay attention to him. That goes for all of us. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u11	I don't know what to tell you. Before the procedure, I told you to take a look at the stenogram, whether I made a remark twice. I just don't have anything to say to you. If I seem worried, that's a different topic. Here you are, Mr. Karadayi, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday, another manifestation of Islamophobia was recorded. Extremely daring, insolent and unpardonably, some individuals attacked defenseless women in European Sofia just because they wore headscarves just because they professed Islam. This is extremely disturbing! All normal people are in shock of such brutality. We of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms strongly condemn this act of hatred. The imposition of hate language, the planting of hatred, the conversion of the representatives of Muslim religion into the equivalent of problems, of enemies, is an alarming phenomenon and someone has to say: "Stop! It is true that the distance from tolerance and denial of the right of the various to be part of the Bulgarian society and to be worthy Bulgarian citizens takes us all away from democracy and European values, puts the state at risk and creates a bad reputation for our country. Our warnings remain a voice in the desert, but we will not give up alarming and calling for tolerance. It was the same after the attack of praying in front of the mosque in Sofia. That's what happened after the attack at the border. That's how it is today. We ask the question: is there a country that guarantees the rights and freedoms of its citizens, notice, in this case, their own homeland? I'm not sure that's a valid question. Those who attacked praying Muslims in front of the mosque in 2011, those who pushed women at the border to prevent Bulgarian citizens from visiting their home homes are in power today. They are part of the power that declares that it is a guarantor of ethnic peace in the country. Today, we are acutely putting the issue of yesterday's act and calling for the greatest political force in parliament to take its responsibility and take all necessary, adequate action to punish the perpetrators, effective measures to cross such events in the future, which means eliminating all prerequisites. Because if today is still time for assessments and reactions, tomorrow may be too late for any action. There is nothing more important than peace, there is nothing more important than understanding and peaceful cohabitation of all ethnicities in the country with combined efforts, together, seeking and achieving success. However, this is the duty and responsibility of all politicians, of all authorities in the country, of all citizens. This is mostly the responsibility of those in power and ruling the state. You can't guarantee ethnic peace and tolerate xenophobia and hatred. This tolerance creates a pattern of behavior that provokes tension and creates prerequisites for an objective threat to ethnic peace. The last case is indicative. Despite the legal definition of prohibited attributes in clothing, public consciousness does not distinguish the traditional in Islam and not only in Islam's headscarf and accepts it as prohibited by law. It's not normal to wear a headscarf is a problem. There is no need to remind us of the wrong formula of management and to request urgent corrective measures. We will not be misled by the others, by the changed rhetoric of the extreme nationalists and xenophobes involved in the management. The inclusion in the power of extreme nationalists, of xenophobes and false patriots creates not only conditions for such events, but permanently energizes the sense of rightness and necessity. And instead of being condemned and eradicated as a type of behavior, they become negative stereotypes and an example of imitation. Once again, we will stress that the main political force must assume and bear its responsibility for everything that threatens democracy and peace in our country. Again, we will turn everyone's attention today: let us be free of what takes us away from European values, destroys democracy and creates a real threat to peace. Let us not just condemn and give up the language of hatred but actually apply as a unified platform the Bulgarian ethnic model and unifying patriotism in the interests of all Bulgarian citizens. We preach unity and unity, tolerance and peace. These things can unite us, they are a condition for our common future. They can create a majority on a value basis and it would guarantee stability and security in the country. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The movement for rights and freedoms strongly condemns any manifestation of division and hatred, any demonstration of intolerance, ethnic and religious opposition. We call on the National Assembly to support our declaration and all competent authorities to immediately take measures to punish those responsible. Let each and all of us work together for such a model of behaviour to ensure stability and security, European development and peace. As Levski said, "It's all in our collective forces." If we all want it, we can achieve success and together, together, in peace and understanding, to build a prosperous Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Declaration, Mrs. Ninova? On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. The speaker of the group is Cornelia Nino, the People's Representative.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and especially colleagues from GERB! You are putting the issue of unity, of standing in common behind priorities, such as the Presidency of Bulgaria and the principles of democracy as a parliamentary republic. However, as you speak these beautiful words, you declared war on the presidential institution, allowing yourself without any data. [[Speaks and lines from GERB]] to talk about corruption in President Radev, about pressure on experts who have made independent decisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u15	Mrs. Ninova, not on the agenda! Please! [[Replications from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Danail Kirilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u16	Okay. I'm not talking about a committee, I'm talking about Mr. Tsvetanov's speech at a press conference, so I'm on the agenda. In addition to this war, you declared war on the opposition by calling us murderers. You're facing the mothers of disabled children, you're facing a police protest. What kind of security, peace and unity are you talking about?! [[GERB lines.]] And you abuse the facts! Mr. Tsvetanov, I respect the actions of President Radev and we support him from his first day to today, including yesterday. You abuse because, here's how we all stood together in Svishtov in front of people. On his left is me, on his right, you are the President's, so do not abuse or accuse the Head of State of dividing the nation and, in different respects, of the various political leaders! This was seen not only all of Svishtov, but all of Bulgaria. On two important topics that you have put today: that Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic and that the Presidency is an exceptional priority, as you have all announced to us. Let's talk about how much parliamentary republic is that republic where Bulgaria's priorities for the European Presidency are not discussed and the Prime Minister signs the Presidency priorities in Brussels with the other two countries? How parliamentary is this republic where the Prime Minister is not coming to parliamentary control for the second month to discuss the Presidency of Bulgaria?! How many parliamentary and law-abiding and democracies will this republic be in which we propose today to discuss and adopt a special committee of inquiry to investigate what happened at the National Palace of Culture? Let's see what parliamentarians and anti-corruption fighters you are! Because from yesterday the headlines in all newspapers are: What happens and what happens in the country? Answer me! Two lobbys in GERB are fighting who to take public procurement for 50 million leva. Repair at the NDK? Is that right? Because both sides in this dispute, Mr. Borshos says: "I will not sign public contracts under pressure and on the edge of the law, who makes him do it? It can't be the opposition. Someone in charge! Mrs. Pavlova, on the other hand, says there is evidence of corruption, that she informed the Prime Minister and he agreed to fire Mr. Borchos. What parliamentary republic and what Presidency do you bring down to who in GERB or in the ruling majority to steal some money from one repair and from one tile? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No priorities, no policies! The presidency was reduced to the replacement of these tiles. Now, because of the tiles, pardon, because of the public procurement, you risk the future of Bulgaria, risk putting these priorities and solving a problem for the Bulgarian citizens, which can be at the centre of this Presidency. This, Mr. Tsvetanov, is the parliamentary republic and the priority of the Presidency of Bulgaria. Therefore, since there are reasonable doubts about corruption spoken by both parties in this dispute, we are bringing an inquiry committee into parliament to deal with the case. For two reasons! If you do not want, we declare ourselves fighting corruption and the parallel state and we want the truth. [[Shouts from GERB: "Eee! "]] The second reason is that both of them in the dispute say: "The Presidency is about to fail! " Obviously, you're not gonna deal with this problem, we're gonna have to help you. [[Shouts from GERB: "Eee! "]] But the time has shown that we were right when we agreed that Denitsa Zlateva should not participate in this, when we expressed our position that you will also use the Presidency for your selfish goals and will put a representative of BSP as a front to wipe your hands from thefts and scams. Time has proved that we were right not to include our representative in this government. A committee of inquiry for the truth, and today we're sending out a signal to the Attorney General to talk about what happened there! Corruption and the biggest risk, the most important danger for Bulgaria to fail the Presidency, the danger to push Europe away, to expose Bulgaria to Europe, to push away European leaders who will not come to Bulgaria in this situation, but most of all the danger that you will not solve during this Presidency at least one problem of the Bulgarian citizens, to miss a great and unique chance for Bulgaria. This is you, Borisov 3 and the majority that supports it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. I did not interrupt the declaration of respect for the parliamentary group. Only two specifics of the Prime Minister Borisov was at parliamentary control on 9 June 2017, and now we are the 29th. [[Reply of National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] Two months is pretty far-fetched, you said. And second of all, Deputy Prime Minister didn't fire the head of NDK. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo, bravo!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u18	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u19	What procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u20	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u21	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am taking the procedure in the manner of conduct to explain to me exactly what statement you have made at what point, to what related, to which authority? That was, if it was a form of a replica of declarations and lines...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u23	There's no such shape.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u24	If it is any of your speeches, it is relative because you have no right to comment on declarations. No one's turned to you. If you are, after all, some sort of lawyer of Mr. Borisov, please take and sign up for the Lawyer's office and do not do it from the parliamentary platform. Do not abuse the power given to you and the fact that you have one button that you can press and talk to each other whenever you want. That was an absolute violation of the regulations. If you tell me what point you made that statement on, I will publicly apologize to you for being wrong! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u25	That won't be necessary. Unlike those who have tolerance when speaking untruths from the stand, I don't. This is the occasion on which I made that statement. [[Applause and screams: "Bravo, bravo!" by GERB.]] If you don't like it, it's not on you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u26	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u27	Enough with the procedures, please! What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u28	In the manner of conduct! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u29	Moving on to: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE BUDGET OF THE STATE PUBLIC SECURITY FOR 2017 Importer is the Council of Ministers. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. The President of the Commission will introduce us to him the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u30	Mr. President, I ask for the first procedure to be admitted to the Chamber to Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, acting manager of the NSI, Mrs. Sultana Petrova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u31	Please vote on the proposal made. Vote 177 MPs: 166 against 5, abstention 6. Please invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u32	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission supports the importer's text on the name of the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u33	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the text of the importer on the name of the bill supported by the Commission. Vote 159 MPs: 155, none, abstention 4. The name of the bill is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u34	Paragraph 1. Proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Gokov, Violeta Zheleva, Manol Genov, Milko Nedyalkov, Zhelyo Boychev. Nadia Klisurska-Zekova, Nikolai Ivanov, Veska Nencheva and Georgi Turnovalyski: .......................................................................................................... 1. Point 2 is amended as follows: 2. Point 3 to be reported. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u35	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Dear Ms. Karaivanova, I hope that you remember the debate on this bill in its first vote and the reasons by which we adopted it with full unanimity. You also remember the debate on proposals from us and the majority rejected bill supplementing the Social Security Code for recalculating pensions. The two bills were constantly compared, emotional arguments were said, which opposed one of the other, but an in-depth assessment of the proposals seemed to be missing. It is hardly clear to their pensioners why you rejected our Pension Recalculation Bill, which would have led to an increase of about 20 percent, and you accepted that of the Council of Ministers for raising only and only minimum pensions, which, apart from not solving even a small part of the problems, also violates social security principles. We have, in principle, supported this bill in the first vote with conviction that the increase of the minimum pension alone and alone poses risks and will lead to negative consequences. Along with the support expressed, we have assured that, between the first and second votes, we will make a proposal in order to improve the adequacy of pensions and our proposal is there. We propose: first, from 1 July 2017, the minimum pension to become 300 BGN, as you promised the Bulgarian pensioners, that is, we help you to fulfill your promises, and second, from 1 January 2018, to recalculate pensions with the average income for 2013, that is, we respect our election commitment to the pensioners and again we help you fulfill your promises to recalculate all pensions. We consider that fair. And there is no dilemma where the money will come from for these two actions. To increase the minimum pension to 300 BGN. they will come from where they will come from and for the increase of 200 leva, i.e. from the surpluses in the budget, and from the use of the funds provided in the new budget of the state social security for 2018. So there is no drama and this is by no means a motive and an argument to reject our proposal. I now address the United Patriarchs. You promised your constituents 300 leva. a pension, and now you say that this would happen if in the National Assembly you are not 27, but 107 for example and that you are giving up your election commitments because you have a coalition agreement and therefore you are voting on it for minimum pensions of 200 BGN. I would point out to you that all of you, including you, claimed during the election campaign that our election program and yours were getting as close as possible, at least in its part directed towards the pensioners. We made almost the same commitments to our constituents to increase pensions, to recalculate basically all pensions. I quote your election program once again: "Increasing the minimum pension for internship and the age of 300 BGN. and recalculation of other claims. And I will ask you again, Members of the National Assembly, from the Coalition of United Patriarchs: what else has changed in three months and two days, except that you like being in power and because of it you betrayed those who believed and voted for you? It is true that the pressure from your big coalition partner is huge, but here we are from the BSP for Bulgaria with our proposal for 300 BGN. minimum pension and recalculation of other pensions give you the opportunity to step out of the situation and keep your election promise to the Bulgarians. [[Noise.]] GERB are clear.. they otherwise win elections, but you do not vow to stay outside the National Assembly for the next 20 years because you do not keep your promises and submit to manipulations by GERB. It is worth thinking about and remember GERB partners change, but your policy does not change. If you don't believe me, ask the Reformers. Excuse me for suggesting, but let's at least 5-6 MPs from your parliamentary group, led by the chairman of the parliamentary group, signified to support our proposal so that people can see that somehow you have a desire for what you have promised to happen, but they are twisting your hands and you have no way of doing it. Or let your entire parliamentary group not take part in the vote as a sign of goodwill to two million, two million and 200 million pensioners. Let the dispute over minimum pensions and recalculation be resolved by the other groups. You should know that pensioners will appreciate such actions on your part, but you do not know what will be the assessment of your coalition partner. I say all this and I address not the parliamentary group of GERB, because there the situation is unsalvable, but to you gentlemen, from the "United Patriarchs" so as not to repeat the situation of 30 November 2016, when your proposal for a vote is voted on 200 leva. a minimum pension, accompanied by a proposal to recalculate pensions, supported by us then, again remind you, and when it did not pass for just five votes, and more than one third of your newly formed then the parliamentary group did not take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u37	He's lying!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u38	I appeal to all Members of the National Assembly, I look forward to your support for our proposal. The other is not serious, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? People's representative Pavel Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Now I've seen something new, a new genre of points thought to be a soon-to-be proverb. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u41	Please do the lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u42	I thought we were gonna have a serious talk about this. I've got my head buzzed, and one through the other, one through the other, one argument over and over again. Let's talk maturely as serious people, and the only thing that satisfied me so far was that all the rage, all the hatred, was directed towards the United Patriarchs. And this is a great recognition for us because we consider ourselves, and indeed it is, for the architects and those who pass the proposal to increase the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners. [[Applause from OP.]] That's the big one, that's the point. Whatever we talk about, however we spin, as we suck, and spit, whatever we say, this is the fact that you Socialists should be silent to, because the fact speaks by a quarter to this point throughout the history of transition within a few months, I do not mean only this first increase, and what will happen from 1 October, there is no increase in any sphere income. This is a trend, this is the main one, this is the most important one. This concerns a new beginning in terms of income, something that we have pleaded for for years, said since the time of the three coalition, which in all these years has not taken place and it is finally a fact. Do you remember during the election campaign one of the most speculated facts, interpretations, arguments, these were when your leaders and you from BSP asked who you would rule with and who you could rule with, eventually? You were ashamed to say that with DPS because they are your only partners because DPS is a beaten card in Bulgarian political life. We Patriots have proven that whoever plays with the DPS is ending the course and leaving the political scene, and that's why you're trying to identify us. None of us had given you anonymities, had given you excuses, but you said yes with the United Patriarchs. And if this were the way to rule with us and were in a coalition, would you have agreed to a quarter of the first year under the terms of the previous budget and without its amendments to increase pensions? You would not have agreed, I assure you, and the evidence of this is your repeated positions and actions in past parliaments, if you will, in the previous one, when we fought with you as well, so that you would agree to increase pensions by what we are increasing them now. And if you had gone so far as to rule with us, we would have made that request, and I'm sure what your reaction would have been. You, and in this Parliament's terms in a coalition with the United Patriarchs, would still not agree, and at this rate the first year, I say the first year, to increase pensions. We would have refused to make a coalition with you, because this is basically our main, first condition and you know it well. One of the things that we put with GERB our relations on a principle basis was this: either a drastic increase in pensions as this happens, and for the entire term more and more increasing, or there will be no coalition. And GERB understood us, but you wouldn't understand us about it. I don't know how long we're going to repeat how many times we're going to say how many times we're going to remind this elementary logic, life logic. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u43	Your time, Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u44	And it's not parliamentary. Yeah, the weather. The five minutes are up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u45	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u46	When we promised 300 leva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u47	Thank you, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u48	...we have promised for the entire term. The mandate is coming up. We are now the second month of this government's reign. The second month! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. A line? Here you go. First line. That statement was in defence of the importer's text.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister, Dear Mr. Shopov! I want to distract from this tribune what you're trying to insinuate by the texts on the change of the Draft Law. There is only an increase in the minimum pension with the percentages you declare. The actual increase is quite different, and any person who can think and who talks to his constituents will understand that people do not expect a 25% increase. That's a lie! If by now a man had a pension of BGN 177. And since June 1st, he's up to 180 BGN, how much is his pension going up? The same is the case in October. If he had a pension of BGN 197. And he only gets 3 lv. A raise, will his pension raise by 25%! This belief that pensions are now rising by 25% is not true at all! The calculations made for next year show the real figures. Divide the necessary calculated 280 million by 12 months, by 800 thousand. Souls to see how much pensions increase! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u51	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Second line, Mr. Gokov, come in. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Shopov, I couldn't figure out what was a new genre, what wasn't true! I think everything you said here is true, and you didn't say anything about what... Your whole speech contained lines regarding my speech. I don't know why, as otherwise, Mr. President reminded you that this is in defence of our proposal. Rage. There is no rage, Mr. Shopov! Only the truth, the living truth. Why don't you say: we wanted to increase pensions, but we can't because our big partner won't give, and we want to be in power! When you say that, once and for all people will understand you, and we will understand you, and we will no longer guide you in this direction. If you were in charge... So, all this time, you haven't said a single argument against what we're proposing, which is what the debate is about right now. You explained your relationship in the coalition, how the big partner twisted your hands and couldn't, and how you would do great things, but another time. [[Noise and lines from GERB, shouts "Eee!" by the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova.]] I don't know why you're yelling at me from there! Come and tell me from the stands what this is about. Why do you not support the proposal of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP), which is to increase the minimum pension of 300 BGN, which you promised, and to reclaim all pensions, which you promised, and which you offered in the previous parliament, and now suddenly, when someone else offers it, you do not support it? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u53	Don't get into a conversation, there's gonna be a douche!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u54	We supported him last time. Now support ours. Or don't vote, I proposed to you. Let's take it to get some air from these pensioners! So, you're just in a spread-out proposal where you can't explain your actions. If you have how, come out, explain with motives, why do you not accept our proposal? I will thank you and apologize if you tell her reasons if they are valid. Thank you. I expect you to tell me, Mr. Shopov, what are your motives for not supporting our proposal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u55	And your time is over, Mr. Gokov. Does he have a back? Third line? Mr. Veselinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u56	Dear Mr. Shopov, although at the main points of your speech I agree with you, I think it is necessary to extend it. You should remind your fellow Members on the left that when five votes did not reach for pensions, when the Patriotic Front (Patriotic Front) was not 70 but 90% of the people were in the Chamber and voted, only 11 out of nearly 40 attended. Remind them that because we actually proposed a binding proposal to change the budget, which required somewhere around 800 million funding, and we had taken the trouble, we had made a proposal where this money would come from. They did not support the revenue side, supported only the spending so that they could wave it like a flag, and supported it in such a small amount of votes that it would not pass. And now they're doing the same thing. They keep blowing up some flag of populism, just to play with people's pain, people's misery. And we need constructiveism, we need financial estimates, and that's what we've done in the creation of the ruling majority. Remind them, too, that the reason we talk about minimum pensions, and so low minimum pensions, is that the BSP failed the state three times. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u57	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Hole, Mr. Shopov, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u58	I thank Mr Nedyalkov very much because he calmed down. He made a line to me, but he spoke humanly and wisely, so even Mr. Gokov, who had gone to counter reading the supporting points, tried to come up with arguments. We will not support your proposal, Mr. Gokov. We will initiate in these four years almost which remain until the end of the term of office, our initiatives, such that they will be for an increase in pensions, up to the extent that we have promised this in our election programme. We do not need to support this proposal of yours. Why? Because this proposal was made to us in November and then you did not support it. And do you know why you didn't support him then? Because then you had begun to experience yourself as future rulers. You thought this term would govern and you had made your estimates, managing to prepare not to give that money, not to pay these pensions. [[Applause from GERB and shouts "Bravo!" by MP Miglena Alexandrova.]] It's the truth! Not someone else! That's why you missed MPs at the crucial moment. Then why didn't you support our proposal? And now the government that followed, that is, the present, would have paid those pensions. As far as what you're pleading about, the real facts on which we can make arguments that... The real fact is, what is the real fact, people? Can you say the opposite and argue the fact: 806 thousand... [[Replications from the place of the National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] And two! I'm sorry, I made a big mistake. I made 4,000 people, yes, it's serious. As you say, 802,000 people get a quarter more income than those who received just a few months ago. Fact. Fact! Once again, a fact that cannot be challenged. As for my colleague, to what you have completed your line to me that the BSP has bankrupted the state and that is why... Yeah, that's right. Since the 44th year so far, how many years has the BSP been running? Because, Mr. Jablyanov, very soon from the stands...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u59	Thank you, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u60	...said it was a party and there was continuity in it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u61	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u62	So, the biggest responsibility...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u63	Time, Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u64	...for the plight of the state is one of those who have managed it the longest until now. [[Loud applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u65	Thank you. To speak, the People's Representative Hasan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it is clear that this proposal will be supported in plenary probably by consensus. I want to go back to the philosophy of the proposal, because it deserves attention. The issue we are looking at right now poses several very serious problems. The first problem is, and he has no answer: why do we equalize the pensions of people with different contributions? This is a very important issue, and the answer to this question must be looked forward to in the proposals we make regarding the pension system. The second question that deserves attention is: why solidarity to the poorest, to those with the lowest incomes, goes through the pension system and not through the social assistance system? Are you sure, ladies and gentlemen, that those who receive a minimum amount of retirement and age pension and those associated with this amount of other minimum amounts, e.g. disability, inheritance pensions, have benefits only from pensions? Are you sure? Then do you think this proposal is a fair proposal? Because there are people who have a minimum amount of pensions, but they have other extra incomes. Do you think there aren't any?! How does your proposal separate these people? Here is an argument in support of the fact that the increase in pensions cannot and should not be in just one segment. Because this increase opposes one group of pensioners from another group of pensioners, and the feeling of solidarity comes into a drastic contradiction with the sense of justice. Here's the big problem, and I'll tell you why. Because those who receive a minimum pension amount now, with this decision, receive a 22 or 23% increase in October. What about the others? The rest receive a 2.4% increase in the size of pensions. Here's the sense of injustice. Regarding the other question, the money for this increase was provided. It is said that by the end of April, the overexecution of the insurance contributions revenue is around 104 million. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, 50 million of this money has already been spent on Easter allowances. You know Christmas is coming, and then you have to give another 50 million. Every single government takes that into account. This money is also not in the state social security budget. I mean, that $100 million is gone. Who gives you the right from now on to claim that by the end of the year there will be another re-execution of the revenue part of the state social security budget, all the more so that last year of this tribune you claimed that the income from social contributions was increased as much as possible?! Personally, I had proposed that the revenues be increased by 150 million. From nine wells of water you brought me here to prove to me that there can be no increase in revenue. When were we frank then or now? Honourable Members, we must be very careful when dealing with the topic of a pension system. Because if you claim that the BSP went bankrupt three times or as many times as you said it, my concern is that with this type of proposal at the first time you tried to manage the state, you would fail the pension system. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u67	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Mrs. Zhekova, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm gonna talk slowly so you can understand me, because you obviously don't understand us. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Your proposal puts an injustice in the Social Security Code on the table, and you know it. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u69	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u70	Our proposal is to allow me to extract the estimates of the National Insurance Institute for an increase of the minimum pension to 300 BGN. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] This will affect one million. Three hundred and thirty thousand. retired, not over 800,000, as you suggest. The amount needed to be set aside amounts to 132 million. lv. Your arguments for amending the state social security budget are related to the overexecution of the budget to date, and by the end of the year we expect a re-execution, as we have heard from the representatives of the NSI, by 280 million. lv. There are also funds in the budget of state social security to increase the minimum amount of pension to 300 BGN. The effect that will be on Bulgarian pensioners, 60% of which live below the poverty line, will be 1 million. Three hundred and thirty-six thousand pensioners. People should know that when GERB and the patriots promise 300 leva. minimum pension, that means 180 leva. or 200 BGN max. They lied to the Bulgarian citizens! We are the only party that has recalculated pensions, I repeat: recalculation of pensions, which is much fairer than your proposal and our priority are people with low incomes, poverty and the inability to continue living this way. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And because our parliamentary group well understands that today's decision violates Article. 19 of the Public Finance Act, our other proposal relates to a recalculation of pensions on 1 January 2018 with an average monthly social security income for 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u71	Thank you, dear Mrs Jekova. Any other speeches? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u72	Dear colleagues, however, let us not forget that we are currently looking at a second reading of the State Social Security Budget Act. None of the negotiators said any significant figures that will reflect on the state social security budget. I think we should go back to the debate, not from this tribune to use the review of the Bill only for populist and political speeches. The proposal made by Mrs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs includes increasing the minimum amount of pension to 300 BGN. The previous mentioned that at such an increase in the minimum amount of the pension will be affected or will receive an increase of 1 million. Three hundred and thirty It's not $1 million. Three hundred and thirty thousand, and one million. 315 grand, but for 50 grand, we won't make a question. The negotiator said that this would cost the budget 130 million, only he forgot to say: So I want to tell you what the numbers are. If the House adopts this proposal today, by 2017. This will cost 760 million from July to December. lv. For 2018, this will cost 1 billion. 600 million. BGN and for 2020 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the Seven hundred million. lv. It's a zoom! What does that mean? Another number supporting the statement... [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's that point. (Sighs) Mr. Ademov's. This is the figure that says that, in practice, with the increase, there will be an increase in pensions of 60% of pensioners, and the other 40%, Mr. Ademov, will receive 2.4%. That is, the sense of injustice and the feeling that your contribution is not the one that affects your pension, naturally, will increase, from there and the erosion of the system, of course. But I still want to go back to that, it's still a budget, where that money's gonna come from. None of the negotiators, nor of those who made the proposal, say this, where will these funds come from: insurance contributions, other contributions or from the state budget?! In 2015, honourable Members, in terms of the contribution of the contribution of the contribution of the contribution of the insurance contributions to the funding from the state budget, we reported 48.89 per cent, i.e. around 50% of the pension amounts are actually provided by the tax transfers from the state budget to the budget of the DVO. In 2017, this percentage will be reduced to 42,39%, and these are actually those effects that are derived from the changes and reform that happened two years ago. If we accept the proposal now, that means that the percentage will jump above 50. Well, then why are we talking about securing and providing pensions from insurance and not saying we're paying them out of taxes?! Another point is that if we pay them out of taxes, tax revenues or should increase and should increase by raising the amount of taxes or the amount of insurance, or if we do not raise the amount of taxes, which I am convinced that the entire House will not agree with, it should be at the expense of other expenditures from the budget. Who are the costs of armaments; the costs of increasing the money of police officers, firefighters; the costs of increasing the money for social assistance and so on? Except you're just on expenses. You're not interested in revenue. That's normal. You're opposition. What do you care about income?! It is important that the expenses and people appreciate how good you are and how much you think about them. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Actually, there's a third option. That's the debt option, only you're also against debt.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u73	The weather, Mrs. Stoyanova. Thank you. Mrs. Zhekova, come in for a line. Please, fellow Members, take your seats. Just a moment, dear Mrs Jekova. Please, colleagues, take your seats in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I'm looking at the NSI's reading. If you're blaming someone for the numbers, here's the reference, I'll give it to you. [[shows.]] It's from the NOI. One million. Three hundred and thirty thousand. people after the increase of 300 BGN. a minimum pension will be increased pensions. Indeed, it is 132 million a month, but what I have commented on is the recalculation of the state social security budget by the end of the year. We're talking about a very small resource that needs to be set aside because, as we all well know, it's easy to give 2 billion for renovations, right? [[Noise and lines.]] It is easy to boast of surpluses and other amounts over 2 billion. BGN, and it's hard to spare 400 million. lv. For the pensioners who live below the poverty line? I'm talking again about the effect, because obviously your sense of injustice is eating you, gentlemen, with today's proposal that you're going to vote on. [[noise and lines]] , the sense of injustice in the way we confuse the social security system. Yeah, but with 300 leva. The minimum pension effect will be on 60% of the pensioners because BGN 314. is the poverty line. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. That was a line of feelings for Mrs. Stoyanova, I guess. Because it's a line to a statement, so she should turn to her feelings. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I cannot agree with you on one point. Colleagues say that their proposals are shaped in a way that would make use of the resources from overexecution of budget receipts, especially in the DVO budget. Only my colleague Mitev bothered to look at the motives. The interesting thing is that the colleagues didn't write this thing down in the motives, because they didn't have any motive for the proposal they made. That's the first one. The other one. Ms. Stoyanova, although you neglected to mention it, I would ask you, if you could call on one of your colleagues at GERB, who is also an economist, to come out and explain how a budget revenue, such as a sample collection from smuggling and so on, can be permanent, because the cost offered in the insurance system, I know that the pre-speakers were lawyers and they are forgiven not to know, but when you have a permanent expenditure, you have to have a permanent income that you can cover. But since colleagues have not yet defended this, I would be very interested if you would also acknowledge my request and call on BSP colleagues to come out to protect it. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u77	Mr. Gokov, third line. While Mr. Gokov is moving, dear colleagues, our guests on the balcony, Your Right, are students from the language high school of Akad. Ludmil Stoyanov. In Blagoevgrad. Let's welcome them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I would like to thank you for bringing this debate back in the direction in which it should go, with arguments on our proposal. I have no doubt that your estimates are absolutely correct and accurate. Maybe they're not in the numbers, but I don't normally doubt their accuracy. I also thank you for admitting that this approach is unfair. The Bulgarian people have an unpleasant feeling because the whole transition is marked by this injustice and we are now continuing to accumulate new injustices. We shouldn't be doing this! If we have the opportunity, if the budget allows to raise by 1% pensions, we will raise them all. If it allows 11.5% to rise at all, we must raise them all. The rest is really unfair. You forget to tell me where the funding for next year will come from with so much money. We're not gonna make it to 50% and we're not gonna get through it. We may not slow down, but we will keep at the same limits, because budget revenues will increase in the revenue section. You constantly underestimate this revenue section, but you raise the minimum wage every year. From this, revenues in state social security increase. You also do not take any steps to remove from the insurance system those who do not contribute to it. For example, people with social pensions, with disability pensions, as we call them, who should be taken out into the social system, but not burdened on social security. Finally, I do not approve that you opposed some social groups of other firefighters, retired policemen. This can't happen, Mrs. Stoyanova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u80	Thank you. Mrs. Zhekova, I think you're a lawyer. Looks like you're replacing Mrs. Maya Manolova from the previous parliament. Lawyers are specialists on all subjects, but it is good to master mathematics as well. It's a good thing that you admitted it and specified the 130 million. BGN, but times 12 is 1 billion 500-600 million. For this year, it doesn't make 400 million, it makes 760 million. But it doesn't really matter to lawyers. I would therefore like to tell you that the debate must go back to the budget. Mr. Gokov, thank you for believing my numbers. Of course, they're not mine, they're from the institutions and they're correct. I firmly believe that your proposal increases injustice not only among pensioners, but also among those working today with their social security contributions providing everyone else's pensions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u81	And with his taxes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u82	And with his taxes, Mr. Ademov tells me, which is true, and who lose their confidence that what they are making as a contribution today will return to them tomorrow as an appropriate amount of pensions. The fact that different groups and layers are opposed to each other, I disagree with you, Mr. Gokov, because we are not talking about opposition here, but about a way in which budget spending is allocated to the revenues we have, of course, if you do not plead debt. I hope, listening to your parliamentary group's latest statements that you do not want to have a policy on debt increases, deficits and so on. In this case, we will talk about priorities in the cost allocation, but fairly, in the amount of what our revenues can provide. And the revenues, Mr. Gokov, are increasing thanks to the work of the government, the revenue agencies, the efforts that are being made to eradicate the gray economy, the smuggling. This is an undeniable fact, which is proved by the figures monthly when the accounts of the Ministry of Finance come out. But let's get back to the DEA budget, because it needs to be formed by insurance contributions as a priority. And he, as you suggest, will continue to be formed by taxes, which is unfair and which basically means the eradication of the social security system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u83	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. The people's representative, Veselin Mareshki, has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u84	Dear students [[turns to students who are on the balcony of the plenary room]] Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I may not be quite accurate, but maybe more than 10 years we've been listening to election promises for a minimum pension of 500 BGN. with recalculations falling closer to the actual participation in power and passing through 300 BGN. pension, reaching the so-called "new start" proposal to raise the pension from 161 to 180 BGN. This new beginning I call cynicism, mockery with our mothers and fathers. Here is the time to say that we, from the Political Party, will be in opposition or government, will always support what we have promised. In this case we will support what you have promised over the years, namely 300 BGN. a pension because we believe that this is consistent. That's fair. Not to promise a pound when you are in opposition and feel no chance of gaining power, but to promise things that are real, pragmatic and calculated. We heard that, in the previous National Assembly, such a proposal has been made by our colleagues from now on in a new way called the Group of United Patriarchs. What prevents you from doing the same proposal now and supporting it?! We'll support you! It's respectable, it's consistent. Where's the money coming from? Three ways. The first is with an increase in revenues, which means effective management of the Bulgarian economy. Several times out of this tribune, we tell you that, for example, Port of Varna, it can be managed by at least 10-20% more effectively. But this is also for all other businesses. I think this could go up to 50%. The second is cost reduction. Where can things happen there? Last week I listened to former Prime Minister Sofianski, who accurately explained how a freeway in all calculations should cost 50 million. BGN, and it costs 180 million. lv. From only one highway, only one deal can find the money in one month payment for the increase of pensions to 300 BGN, as promised. I'm saying we'll back him up in the hall. KTB, BTC, BGA, 900 gas stations caught manipulating the equipment. Except there's not a single gas station I own, so no one's gonna find them! [[Strong noise in GERB.]] There's no name on any gas station, any businessman who steals taxes. And why is that?! Are they patronized by the government?! Do Revisors catch these people or are they good because they support financially those who now have to fuck with the Bulgarian people? It says that if we accept the proposal at the moment for 300 leva. a pension, almost the state was going to go bankrupt. No, the state won't go bankrupt. We will make sure that our mothers and fathers receive at least a slightly more dignified pension than what it is now, but there will be much less money left to steal. And theft is not done by the opposition! I will use my speech to answer one question from the BSP declaration of Mrs. Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u85	You can't answer affidavits! Please, by the lyrics!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u86	They and the others couldn't... Okay, I'll continue my speech. Who's forcing Mr. Borchos to deal with the public...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u87	This has nothing to do with the texts we are looking at.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u88	There's a connection because there's not enough money in NPC for our mothers and fathers' pensions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u89	If that's the kind of relationship you're looking for, fine.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u90	That's exactly the connection! [[Applause in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] And I'm answering you: I'm asking Mr. Borchos to steal, I've bankrupted KTB and I'm giving the consent to be investigated for both BTC and Sofia Airport...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u91	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u92	I made all the deals! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u93	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u94	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! It is appropriate, in the manner of conduct, as President of the National Assembly, to follow those who are speaking as they are speaking, and when there is a conflict of interest, the respective speaker must declare them. Mr. Mareshki cannot talk about petrol stations, about fuel, about oil, without declaring a conflict of interest in the Bulgarian Parliament. This is unacceptable! And when a people's representative speaks from this tribune, he should know these things and do them, not pretend to be a moralist because he's not. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u95	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. It is the duty of every MP. There's no way I'm doing this. Anyone who has read the Rules knows that when there is a conflict of interest, they must declare it when speaking and when voting. I don't accept that this is a procedure in the manner of conduct. Are there any other statements? I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. [[The National Representative Ramadan Atalay wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u96	It's over now.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u97	Mrs. Stoyanova, there appears to be another statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u98	But you closed the debate, Mr. Chairman! Follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u99	I can't take Mr. Atalay's word away. He made his wish to speak so vigorously. I apologize, Mr. Atalay. Dear colleagues, it's my fault. I didn't see Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u100	How good you are, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I congratulate you on being President of the entire National Assembly. My fellow Members, I have listened with attention to all those who have spoken and I have thought of this debate about our parents' pensions. I say again because in the previous National Assembly a parliamentary group now called the OP had then calculated and offered 500 BGN. Her pensions had found funds, Mrs. Stoyanova, then. The main question today, the main problem is: where are the funds to be distributed for pensions? That's the main question. The budget amendment we are doing today and what our parents are listening to today, I am absolutely convinced that none of them wants the money for free. None of them have squatted down to pray for those funds he has worked for and is currently seeking to secure a minimum standard of living. We are arguing here without any of the speakers, except for Mr. Ademov for the first time, because we are in a constant dispute with him, says: "I once told you where 150 million will come from to increase the pension. I'm opening a clamp to tell you that you're guilty of removing a Swiss system because if you hadn't removed this system, now the minimum pension would be BGN 268. [[Laughter]] It's not funny at all, colleagues. Now I'll tell you something else where you expect the revenue from, Mrs. Stoyanova. You say the revenue is provided by the revenue agency. No, colleagues, revenue is provided with an increase in gross domestic product and revenue agencies collect it. From there your logic is wrong, you rely only on revenue agencies to skin, collect in one or half of a shirt, what is not in people. Thus, without increasing the gross domestic product without creating an opportunity for job creation, there is no way and how to increase pensions, but once you have decided... And the revenues that should be... I'll remind you of one more place where you can get the funds. Well, from the civil servants you're pushing to vote for you, the state is paying them full insurance. Stop the civil servants the part they need, and you'll have the proceeds, and that's why you're pulling me out of my language now, but I'll tell you that the prime minister also said that 1 mrd. 300 million will provide from the smuggling, from these funds that you have at the moment.. 150 million, and from those of the civil servants who will collect them, Mr. Chairman, in art. 10 t. 3 would be most appropriate and I am convinced that the OP will support us, and not to be protected only by the DPS: from October 1st to be BGN 500. [[Applause from DPS.]] Did I say "argument"? Did I tell you where your income will be from? Are they going to be permanent? Will we give justice to those who will not wait at the door to pray for their means? Think about it, fellow Members, I suggest you support this proposal of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u102	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. That's all you've been proposing since October 1st?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u103	In the importer's text?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u104	In the text of the importer, third point, Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u105	Yeah. Thank you. You've noticed right.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u106	I'm very careful about every person who speaks. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal from the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Dragomir Stoynev, Georgi Gokov, Violeta Zhelev, Manol Genov, Milko Nedyalkov, Zhelyo Boychev, Nadya Zhekova, Nikolai Ivanov, Veska Nencheva and Georgi Turnovaliski, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. 200 MPs voted: 93, against 68, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u107	Mr. Chairman, not all of our fellow Members have been able to vote. I'm sorry. I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u108	It's a re-vote. They voted 207 MPs: for 96, against 78, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Ramadan Atalay in point. 3 of the text of the importer supported by the Commission, the number Please vote. Were you able to vote? Vote 206 MPs: 96 against 74, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1 supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 199 MPs: for 198, against 1, no abstentions. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted. I guess someone for a negative vote will come out. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]] There's a problem with the consoles? Revoting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u109	Sorry, there's been some trouble with the consoles, please re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u110	Revoting procedure. Vote 202 MPs: for 202, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 1 by importer and, respectively, by the Commission report, has been adopted unanimously. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u111	'Concluding provision'. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs. The name shall be changed to "Concluding provisions'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u112	Are there any speeches? It's clear why the offer is. There are no speeches. I put to the vote a proposal by the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 194 MPs: 77 against 85, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u113	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 2, namely: ..................................................... In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. (c) Paragraph 7b shall be inserted in Transitional and Final Provisions: .................................................................................. (1) Employment pensions granted until 31 December 2011 shall be revalued from 1 January 2018, multiplied by the country's average monthly insurance income for 2012. 618.06 BGN, after which the amount of the pension is determined under the conditions and under the terms of art. 70, 75 and 79. (2) The recalculation of pensions under para. 1 shall be carried out if this is more beneficial to the person. 3. The former § 2 becomes § 3. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u114	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u115	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My fellow Members and I have made a proposal that concerns a specific policy. If we voted together a short-term solution, one solution per piece, we are already talking politics here. Why? Because, ladies and gentlemen, we have just de facto voted on a change that will concern approximately 600,000. The guy. The big question is, what do we do for the other 1 million? Six hundred thousand. pensioners, what exactly is planned for them? There is no answer to this question from the government. And why wouldn't there be? Because we still don't have a management program, we still don't have a legislative programme. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] There was one great willingness, I remember, but it was only in words. In fact, we do not know what will happen next months and why not next year, if, of course, endure until then. [[GERB lines.]] To date, we have all supported only those pensioners who have the least social contribution, or perhaps those who have little or no social contribution. Now let's see about the rest of the pensioners! This is what we propose is precisely the policy that should be pursued and we hope you will also support it, because really in this way, with the updating of pensions, we help approximately 80% of Bulgarian pensioners. But you must clearly state whether you have such a desire. Because until now, first of all, you lied to the voters, you didn't keep your promise. Secondly, you will lie to them a second time, and I hope it does not happen if you do not support our proposal. Because to update pensions, I remember that somewhere, in some debates and some colleagues were talking, but ultimately there must be something black and white, there is no legislative programme, the President is trying to make the agenda, if there may be no opposition laws, but at the same time we want to have a joint policy. Let's do it together, but clearly and accurately know that there will be an update of pensions, or there won't be. Because when we promised it, we kept it. [[(Strong noise and lines from GERB. Commendations: When?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] We've done it in 2008. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Two thousand and eight years, please! Then if you don't remember, I'll remind you of all our actions in this field.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u116	At the end of the term...?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u117	So when we talk about politics, I understand that this eludes you, you only need short-term and rapid measures without any effect, but when we talk about politics, then we need really long-term action, to seek stability, to seek solidarity and, of course, as much justice as there can be for our mothers and fathers who have built this country. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 185 MPs: 81, against 81, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u119	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u120	Are there any speeches? I won't. Vote § 2 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 186 MPs: for 178, against none, abstention 8. Paragraph 2 of the Commission's report has been adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF THE DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEEDING PROCEEDING RULES FOR THE PROCEEDING AND RESTRUCTURING OF CANDIDATE FOR A REPRESENTATIVE, A REGISTER, A REGISTER, A REGISTER, A REGISTER, A REGISTER AND A RESTRUCTURING OF THE CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION OF BUDGET AND FINLAND, AND THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE PEOPLE'S COSTS. A report from the Committee on Budget and Finance, which will introduce us to the President of the Commission. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u121	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on draft decision to adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of a candidate for a Vice-President, head of the Investment Activity Board and of a candidate for a Vice-President, Head of the Management Board, of the Financial Supervision Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Budget and Finance Commission, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 27 June 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed procedural rules for conducting a public procedure under art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the election of two Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission. [[Radio, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u122	Mrs. Stoyanova, excuse me for a moment. Please, fellow Members, take your seats and have order in the Chamber. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u123	The adoption of procedural rules is necessary in relation to the election of new Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission due to the expiry of the mandate of Angel Jalazov as Vice-President of the Board of Directors and the terminated early term of office of Nikolay Popov as Vice-President of the Board of Directors. In accordance with art. 5, para. 2 in relation to Art. 6, para. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act, the National Assembly must elect two Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 21 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that the following be considered and adopted by the National Assembly: Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing a candidate for a vice-president in charge of the investment activity and of a candidate for a vice-president in charge of management, the Financial Supervision Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 5, para. 2 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of a candidate for a vice-president in charge of the management of the investment activity and of a candidate for a vice-president in charge of management, the Financial Supervision Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly: I. Offering a candidate for a Vice-President, head of the Board of Directors and a candidate for a Vice-President, Head of the Management Board, to the Financial Supervision Commission and the presentation of their documents. 1. The proposals for individual candidates for vice-presidents, responsible for managements, shall be submitted in writing by the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission to the Committee on Budget and Finance through the President of the National Assembly within 14 days of the adoption of these rules of procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals shall be accompanied by written reasons which justify the good professional reputation of the applicant concerned. The following documents shall apply to each proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position in the template. (a) Annex 1 to the decision; (b) Declaration under art. 4, para. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act "Annex No 2 to the Decision; (c) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model "Annex 3" to the Decision; (d) a detailed CV; (e) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for a completed higher legal or economic education with a minimum degree of education and qualification of a Master's degree; (f) evidence of criminality; (g) documents certifying that the proposed candidate has a good professional reputation, professional experience and meets the requirement for work and/or service in the field of law, economy or finance for at least 5 years. II. Public disclosure of documents. The proposals, together with the documents attached to them, shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly no later than 12 days before the hearing. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Budget and Finance not later than three days before the hearing of the candidates, including questions to be addressed to the Commission on Budget and Finance. The media may send questions to the Committee on Budget and Finance to the candidates to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. The opinions and questions are sent by post to the city of Sofia, Bulgaria. "Knyaz Alexander I" No 1, Budget and Finance Committee, or by e-mail: budget@parliament.bg. Opinions and questions shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Budget and Finance. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. It's a hearing of the candidates. 1. Before hearing the proposed candidates, the Budget and Finance Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether each of them meets the requirements for the position concerned. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission within two minutes. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Each candidate shall present its concept of management activities in the Financial Supervision Commission for which it is proposed by the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission within 20 minutes. 5. The Committee on Budget and Finance shall hold debates on the proposals made. Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to each of the candidates within two minutes of a Member of the National Assembly. Upon completion of the questions asked to each candidate by all Members of the National Assembly, he shall answer within 10 minutes. 6. The President of the Committee on Budget and Finance shall present in summary the opinions and questions of the persons referred to in art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received within two minutes each. 7. The applicant's reply to the submitted opinions and the questions raised within 10 minutes. 8. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and the relevant competent authority. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Commission shall draw up within the meaning of art. 93, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing of the candidates and submit it to the National Assembly. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision to elect each of the candidates as vice-president in charge of the relevant management of the Financial Supervision Commission. 11. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing shall not suspend the procedure with regard to the other candidate for the position concerned. IV. Election of a candidate for Vice-President in the Committee for Financial Supervision by the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 7. If the applicant does not receive the necessary votes, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. Annex No 1, Annex 2 and Annex 3 to the Decision are the three number of declarations required by the rules that I have just read to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u124	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. I'm opening the debate. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Please vote. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. In groups, please. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u125	Procedure, Mrs. Chairman. Please, the deadline for proposals of the Members of the National Assembly between the first and second reading of the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of DPC, No 702-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 June 2017, to be extended by another seven days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u126	Thank you. We are going to vote on Mrs. Stoyanova's procedural proposal. Please vote for a seven-day extension. Vote 94 MPs: for 94, no objection, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u127	Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE SEARCH OF THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF A NEW TYPE OF AIRCRAFT. Come in, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u128	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The acquisition of a modern battle plane is a complex and complex process, conditioned by many geopolitical, military technical, financial, economic and legal factors requiring thorough analysis to find the most appropriate solution possible and at the state level. In this process, it is also necessary to take into account the final effect achieved by building defence capabilities, our commitments in collective defence within NATO, the political dimensions of binding to a particular supplier and the possibilities for industrial cooperation. It was in this connection that the Project for the acquisition of a new type of fighter plane for the air force was developed. I will also mention a few words about the development of the project so far. On 2 June 2016, the Forty-third National Assembly adopted a Project for Investment Expenditure, which is in line with the adopted Programme for the Development of Defence Capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020. It lays down the necessary parameters and activities for the acquisition and operation of a new type of combat aircraft, basically defining the scope of the Project, defining its time parameters and defining the financial framework. The approved Investment Cost Project served as a basis for developing and sending a request for a proposal to potential contractors of the Project in December 2016. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the need to set up a Temporary Commission can be considered in several respects. First of all, it was during the caretaker government that the assessment and ranking of potential suppliers was made. Let us recall that at that time the National Assembly was not functioning and parliamentary control was not exercised, but extremely important decisions were taken regarding the project. Next, the Project for the acquisition of a new type of fighter aircraft for the air force provides for the use of huge financial resources and is expected to achieve a significant increase in the defense capabilities of our air force. This caused serious public and media interest, and the need to ensure transparency of the entire process of realization of the Investment project. In support of the establishment of the Temporary Parliamentary Commission, the need for greater involvement of the National Assembly with the projects for modernization of our armed forces may also be indicated. The working committee will lead to better awareness of the MPs, which is a necessary and important condition for timely and without delay voting on a specific draft contract with a specific contractor. We believe that the main tasks of the Temporary Commission, which we propose to establish, are: to get acquainted with all the facts and circumstances concerning the procedure carried out on a new type of combat plane, as well as with the actions carried out by officials in the analysis, evaluation and aggregation of the results received; is it possible to clarify the independence of their decisions, whose responsibilities are in the management of the process? What were the reasons and procedure for taking decisions by the Council of Ministers, according to the presented protocol of the interdepartmental working group? The benefits of the establishment of the Temporary Committee for the Study of the implementation of the procedure for the selection of a new type of combat plane are obvious. The Commission's work will ensure greater clarity and transparency, which are only in the interests of society, regarding one of the biggest investment costs for the re-arming of the Bulgarian army. The conclusions of the Commission's work can also be useful in the implementation of the other two priority projects for the Ministry of Defence. At the same time, it will prepare the MPs for the forthcoming ratification of the interstate agreement with the country supplier of a new type of combat plane. It is particularly important for the Commission to ensure that, in the process of selecting a supplier, competitive and at the same time equivalent conditions for all participants will be provided, that lobbying interests, external interferences, emotional decisions, political biases and personal ambitions will not be allowed. The establishment of such a Commission will once again show that the National Assembly has the will to require all structures and institutions to work in the interests of the development of the armed forces and in the interests of Bulgaria. In conclusion, we can clearly say that it is absolutely necessary to establish one such commission, which, with adequate performance of its tasks, will benefit not only our air forces, not only the Bulgarian army, but also the public interest. The Commission's activities are not intended to stop the process of acquiring a new type of combat aircraft, but are aimed at ensuring its publicity and transparency. In the light of the above, we propose to the National Assembly to decide on the establishment of a temporary committee to examine the implementation of the procedure for the selection of a new type of combat aircraft.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u129	Will the draft decision represent him, or should I present him? [[Replications aside from the microphones between the MP Konstantin Popov and the President of the National Assembly Dimitar Glauchev.]] You have the floor to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u131	It's a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u132	It's a procedure in the manner of conduct, yes. The fact is that, in haste, I missed a Ruler and accordingly, after you corrected me, I politely sat in the seat. At the same time, however, absolutely in the decision of these same Rules, others, apparently a little less polite Members of the Chamber, were calling out, shouting and trying to put in order, which is an absolute decision of the Rules. Such a thing from me cannot be heard, naturally, I always speak when I am given the word, but I pay attention to you looking at the order of the House and, when there are such colleagues who, trying to give a good tone, actually violate the rude rules for which they plead to be observed, make a remark and try to ridicule them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u133	Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u134	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the last two months, especially in the last few days, the media and society have increased interest in the next steps of the Ministry of Defence, Government and Parliament towards the implementation of the Project for Investment Intentions for the acquisition of modern fighting equipment for the Bulgarian Army. The increased media interest and speculation regarding the decisions, ambiguities and very clear, obvious and unclear interventions of political and sub-party individuals in these processes oblige all those who have the responsibility to the development and leadership of the armed forces to take decisive steps to meet the expectations of society for transparency and integrity in decision-making. This is particularly important for those who have a Constitutional responsibility to lead the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. A number of former leaders of the state and of the Ministry of Defence have already presented their positions to everyone, but quite naturally, each of them had their own point of view, and she was, of course, the right one, the only possible one and, of course, no doubt. As can be expected, not only did it not soothe society, not only did it not answer questions, but added more and more new and more complicated. It also began to be recalled positions and statements of people holding leadership and extrapartisan positions that caused confusion and anxiety. Quite natural and completely fair, the media also addressed Parliament as a last resort to clarifying the situation. In the last few days alone, difficult questions have been asked and demands expectations for answers, action and interference by the MPs. It has been repeatedly noted, including by MPs, that the situation created not only does not help the government to protect the Bulgarian interest before upcoming negotiations, but also damages to a large extent our interests. The Bulgarian side has shown itself to be not particularly correct, strange and inconsistent partner, with which it is not only difficult to negotiate, but also often these negotiations for meaningless, because someone has already decided to be favourite and another to be disqualified. The intervention of party leaders, opposition leaders, representatives of the non-partisan institutions not only reassured no one, but also brought more concern, especially in those who sincerely wish the processes in the country to be conducted openly and honestly. At the natural striving to be presented to the public and explained all actions so far concerning the practical steps taken by the responsible institutions, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Defence, was answered in a typical political manner with sarcasm and ridicule. Answering people's questions in this way is unworthy and reveals anxiety and, of course, a guilty conscience. In addition, it is inexplicable that the denial of Parliament's right to take actions that would help answer questions and would prevent harming the Bulgarian interest. The forceful positions expressed by representatives of different parties create anxiety and insecurity precisely in those people we will rely on for the management and prevention of dangerous situations. Many in the Armed Forces are currently looking with confusion and misunderstanding of the attempts to hide the answers to the questions they are asking themselves: who and how has led the state and the armed forces in recent months; has anyone had any interest in favouring one project to another; has anyone ordered the Prime Minister of Bulgaria how to act, what decisions to make and when to announce them? Because the last confessions of a former prime minister of Bulgaria make us ask ourselves: who was in charge of the state before the parliamentary elections, who was preparing to manage and how was he preparing to rule after them? The only way to respond to the questioners, to calm both partners and people, is to intervene without delay and to look together for the answers Whatever you answer, the Bulgarian Parliament is obliged to say them openly. Only so can we assure everyone that the road that the caretaker government, the Ministry of Defence, has come to this point as political leadership over the past few months, and other extra-party institutions responsible for the development of the Armed Forces have been sincere, impartial and motivated only by their desire to see the Bulgarian army combatable and modern. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u135	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Are there any lines? I won't. It is now 11:27 a.m. Break for half an hour, then we proceed with the debate. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u136	Honourable Members, we are continuing the plenary session. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. We continue with the speeches. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u137	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm not gonna talk about the technical characteristics of the different type of aircraft or their fighting ability. That's what experts should be talking about. I will speak to you today on behalf of the BSP about Bulgaria... about three things.. the facts, the political decisions and finally the law and the Constitution, which stand above all the facts and above the political decisions and above us. So, the facts. The 43rd National Assembly, with a dominated majority of GERB, decided in 2016 on the investment project. In implementation of this decision, the Minister of Defence of the Government of Boyko Borisov 2 issued an order to form a working group of experts to rule out which of the proposals should be ranked in what way. There are deadlines in these documents. Time is running out during the office. As a result, a proposal was then submitted to the Council of Ministers to arrange the tenders. The Council of Ministers shall adopt the ordering protocol, without any further ruling on any choice, and shall prejudge it. You now want us to make an inquiry committee to check why the people who worked on this matter have implemented a decision of the National Assembly, an order of the Minister of Defence, followed the deadlines and done their job. We usually check why someone has not done their job or has deviated from the decisions of the National Assembly. It's a precedent. Now you want to check why these people have strictly implemented a decision at the Forty-third National Assembly. Unlike us politicians, the military are disciplined people and have done their job. So much for facts. Politics and political decisions. Already in the cabinet Borisov 3 was held the first Advisory Council on National Security with President Radev. The decision-making protocol states that: we have agreed and there is a political agreement between everyone on the accelerated implementation of modernization projects. At the end of the Advisory Council I expressed reservations because inside the conversation it became clear that Boyko Borisov 3, the government and its ministers have no intention of making an accelerated realization of modernization. There it becomes clear that they want a delay in time sometime and when. We don't mind you having such a political position, it's yours, it's up to you. Then I voiced my opinion against it because it was hypocrisy against the Bulgarian citizens, against the military. Inside we all know that the government was against, outside the government said: "Yes, we will do an accelerated realization of modernization. First contradiction. Secondly, on June 23, Mr. Borisov made a statement in Brussels together with the Prime Minister of Sweden and said: Who predestined Grippen? Prime Minister Boyko Borisov with this speech at the highest place in Brussels. Given that there are three offers, he defined it by meeting with the Prime Minister of Sweden and said: "We are going with you. Secondly, Mr. Tsvetanov announced that he wanted a commission, hinted at corruption, accused the president of pressure on experts, who had decided only ten days after that a statement by Prime Minister Borisov. The question is: why is this contradiction? What happened this week between what the Prime Minister said and what you do and want now?! Well, it is not very difficult to think of, because you very naively said it yourself at the press conference by tying it up with another topic, and it is: what President Radev said in Greece intends to start a firm and firm fight against corruption and that the political class does not have the will to do it. At your press conference, you say so yourself. It was quoted by Mr. Tsvetanov and Mr. Kirilov. You oppose this statement by the President and say: "Well, then we will seek corruption in the presidential institution. This has happened and that is why for us the Commission label you want to create has two names: Fear and Corruption. Fear that President Radev begins the battle against corruption on the high levels of power and the word "Corruption". But not in the presidency, but as we see is in other places: highways that are being investigated by the prosecution; NDK, which we are yet to unravel; sanitization... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u138	Please, on the subject, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u139	You're talking about another corruption, not the one the president's talking about. President Radev can't handle this on his own. He needs the support of the whole society. There is a need for the support of the political class and political parties if we are credible to people that we want to regime this issue. We firmly state that we stand by him in his firm intention to combat high-level corruption, and in the coming weeks we will give you specific signals about this. Your response to the President's call is panicked, quickly and urgently to set up a temporary committee of inquiry to investigate him. Very cleverly in the motives of your decision and in the proposal for a committee you did not mention it. I'll explain why. However, your real motives are exactly from the press conference that you gave and in which you say that: "There is doubt that President Radev has defended the decision to buy Swedish fighters and this happened in a period when there was no final decision of the government in charge. Although in today's decision you do not mention it, the real motives shine from this press conference. Your attack is personal and personal against President Radev because he wants to put the political class in its place, not to steal as he steals throughout the transition, to do the work for which we have been sent here to make laws, and those who cross them to find their place where they should by law and by Constitution. This is your true intention and therefore we will not support this Commission. I move on to the third law and the Constitution. Colleagues, we demand in the name of the right that Mr. Popov no longer take any part in this matter. There is one thing called the Ruler of Parliament, which is likened to a decision by the Constitutional Court of Justice of a law. There's talk of conflict of interest. You know better than us in those years back that you want to check out, Mr. Popov, where were you? He wasn't in the Agriculture Department. He was the head of defense, he was the head of the Air Force. And today you allow him to be the importer of this proposal! Not a conflict of interest, but a rude violation of any rules, of justice, transparency, democracy and legality! Secondly, in terms of law. Since this morning Mr. Tsvetanov is waving the Constitution and referring to it that we must follow it. Well, let's keep it, my dear. Judgment No 6 of 11 April 2012 in Constitutional Case No 3 of 2012 of the Constitutional Court of Justice stated: "The legal position of the President does not allow the exercise of parliamentary control over his acts. I'm not gonna read you the whole decision. Long and argumentative. If you want a Constitution, by pleading for separation of powers...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u140	It doesn't have the President's act...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u141	Mr. Glauchev, follow me if you want to come and disprove me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u142	I'll be there, of course. You said the President's Act. And why do you keep tying the president to the Temporary Commission?! I object to binding the President to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u143	I've already explained why. Because your motives for the committee are false! Don't interrupt me. Follow the rules. Another example of unlawfulness in parliament! You have the right to take the floor when I'm done, but come down here, not talk to me from above.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u144	I cannot allow you to bind the President's personality to the creation of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u145	All right, after me, take the word and disprove me! What can't you afford for the president? Did I make that statement?! Mr. Tsvetanov did it: "Doubt that President Rumen Radev has defended the decision to buy Swedish fighters, therefore we want a committee of inquiry. Who did this? And you're telling me there's no such thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u146	He's not in parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u147	Follow the Constitution of the State and the Laws if you want to have order, rules and compliance with these rules in the State! You probably won't, and you will accept this committee, even in violation of the Constitutional Court's decision! It's your business! We will not support you in setting up such a committee. You're transparent! You're declaring war on the president's institution! All right, bring her in. We also make our choice. We stand behind President Radev, especially in his firm, consistent and unshakable desire to start a real fight against corruption at the high levels of power and to show the political class that there can be order, rules and legality in this country! There is our support and we, here in Parliament, will defend this policy with specific legislative proposals and control over the executive power. Everything else is transparent and subjective! It's your move! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u148	I apologize, Mrs. Ninova, but I cannot allow the commitment of President Radev's personality to the establishment of this committee. I apologize. [[Replicates in "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ninova, I do not agree at all with the bond you are trying to launch in order to make an introduction in connection with the Anticorruption Law and anticorruption legislation. I would remind you that in the last parliament in December, when GERB was in minority when we agreed on what are the most priori laws to see them in the last month and a half as parliamentary activity, I recall that the first priority was the so-called Anticorruption Law. I recall that in the Legal Committee, all political parties and parliamentary groups other than GERB and the Reformation Bloc have voted in favour of unacceptable consideration of this bill. This was the second reading of the so-called project Kuneva. We were not ready with many proposals between first and second readings to give options in this sense. Lately you remembered, more than a year ago, about the Anticorruption Act. I would also like to say the following in defence of General Popov. I do not know exactly what functions he had with the procedure in question, but as you measure yourself to General Popov, I ask you to measure yourself to yourself as well. This means that from now on you are not to rule on any occasion, not to take an opinion on any economic law...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u150	The weather, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u151	... Food law, competition law. And I'll remind you every time! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u152	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Gazhev, you have the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ninova, you were right at the beginning that you should handle facts. Therefore, I will read you part of Order No P53, where the first point is: I appoint an interdepartmental working group to sum up the analyses and evaluation of the answers on request for information on the project for acquisition of a new user, name composition, assessments... The Interdepartmental Working Group referred to in point 1 of 14 March 2017 shall begin work on the summary, analysis and evaluation of the responses to the requests submitted after receipt and to complete its work within 14 working days after the start of its activity. The Commission's work period is automatically extended by the time limits given to the participants to provide additional documents, clarifications and so on.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Point 17 is: The International Working Group on this point after completion of its work to prepare and provide for the approval of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Economy a protocol on its work containing the results of the analysis and evaluation of the answers, as well as the ranking of candidates according to the submitted tenders with detailed reasons and considerations for these decisions. Within three working days of the confirmation of the protocol, the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Defence shall provide me with a report with an attached protocol of the work of the interdepartmental working group and proposals for follow-up. I'm assigning control over the execution of the order to the Deputy Prime Minister for Home Affairs and Security and Minister for Defence. Signed Prime Minister Ognian Gerdjikov. The date is March 10, 2017. It is clear from this order that the Commission on the selection and time limits that have been asked... everything happened during the work of the caretaker government. You're either telling us false news here, or you've been fooled, too. Let us see exactly what happened in this Commission. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u154	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Third line. "The People's Representative Toma Bikov."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u155	Mrs. Ninova, you said some heavy words from the stands. I don't think you're doing the president a favor by putting him in a position for you to stand behind him and for the ruling majority to stand against him. In this Commission, we do not deal with the President and we will not deal with him because he does not have the authority to determine how to run the contest, organise it, conduct it and so on. However, we hear what the President says and listen to what he says because he is the president of all Bulgarian citizens. On 9 June this year, the president said in his interview that the dispute was between lobbyists and aviators. I think it's fair that since we hear from this high level that there are lobbyists, that there are doubts in these deals, that we should listen to these words. Where else, if not in the National Assembly, to check who the lobbyists are?! Who do they work for? Which companies or countries participating in this contest have lobbyists hired? That may also be part of our argument. You say: "Let us not discuss this topic in any way in Parliament, let alone this. You say, "You steal, and we stand behind the president who is against stealing." We're against theft, too. Otherwise, we wouldn't have made such a Commission. We'll check the work of the caretaker government. We have no doubt that the president did not order the caretaker government. You claim that this caretaker government is not yours. When you say "We stand behind the President" you might want to say: "We stand behind the caretaker government and its actions." We will examine the activities of this caretaker government. I hope you will support this Commission because you will have representatives there and will assist in clarifying the truth that will benefit all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u156	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u157	Mr. Kirilov's. Mr. Kirilov, it is not me and we who bind the issue of corruption to President Radev's speech in Greece, but you personally. I will quote what you have said: "Daniel Kirilov: I reject the claims of Head of State Rumen Radev and BSP leader Cornelia Ninova that there is no will to fight corruption in power. "
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u158	I didn't say anything about the planes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u159	Second, as far as conflict of interest is concerned, you are a lawyer, where did you get this diploma? [[Voices from GERB: "Eeeee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u160	Please, Mrs. Ninova. Please, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u161	You're questioning my right to speak by economic law because I'm going into conflict of interest...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u162	Personal interests, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u163	...since I was Deputy Minister of Economy in 2005. Have you read the Law on Conflict of Interest? There's talk about a year ago. Mr. Popov, it was a year ago. If you're going to question the right to talk about the fact that 16, 15 or 20 years ago we had professional commitments...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u164	Please, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u165	...I advise you to read the Law of Conflict of Interest. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u166	You read the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u167	To colleague Gazhev by reading this order with dates, outgoing numbers and so on, why didn't you read the composition of the Commission? He hasn't been changed by the one who appointed Mr. Nenchev. The task of this Commission has not been changed by the way set by Mr. Nenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u168	Why are you lying?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u169	The term expires during the office and the office prime minister is pronounced, but the people inside are the same and let us not insult them because they are good experts. It is said that the political decision on their choice in this Commission is of Borisov 2 and of the Minister of Defence Nenchev. To Mr. Bikov, I think I answered in advance, but I will repeat it again: it is very clear to us that you did not deliberately write President Radev in the motives of this Commission, naturally, but it is very clear from the statement of the press conference that one was dictated by actions and statements of President Radev. I do not need to read again the press conference at which Mr. Tsvetanov and Mr. Kirilov commented on this topic. You're asking about the lobbyists that we should check. If you set up a committee, will you call Mr. Borisov to ask him, which lobbyist made him say in Brussels that he started negotiations with one company? I suggest that if you make a commission to call Mr. Borisov as soon as we look for the truth to the end, because not President Radev and not the office, but he with this statement predestined everything and now transferred from the sick head to the healthy, because he clearly felt that this statement was not quite in order.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u171	So I confirm again that we will not support such a committee. If you create it we will have our representatives inside to control you what you do and we will insist that you call Borisov to talk a little about lobbying in front of us. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u172	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Before the next speech, allow me to introduce you to the Project Decision so that you can concentrate on it and not make free bindings. ? RESPONSIBILITY? establishing a Temporary Committee for the Study of the Implementation of the Selection Procedure for a new type of combat aircraft The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Set up a Temporary Commission to investigate the implementation of the selection procedure of a new type of fighter aircraft. 2. The Temporary Commission should be aware of all the facts and circumstances concerning the procedure carried out for the selection of a new type of combat aircraft; the actions carried out by officials to examine the proposed suppliers by the Parties; the responsibilities for the management of the process; the procedure for deciding to complete the selection procedure by the Council of Ministers. 3. The interim committee shall draw up a report on the facts and circumstances of the procedure and the conclusions drawn. 4. The interim committee is set up on a disproportionate principle by 19 members in proportion: a political party group GERB 8 representatives, a parliamentary group of 5. Selects the Management and Composition of the Temporary Commission as follows. This is the solution project. That is why I objected to the commitment of President Radev to the creation of this Commission, for which I apologize again.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u173	There's nothing to apologize for.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u174	Here's Mr. Tsonev for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the parliamentary group of the Committee on Rights and Freedoms is not going to support the decision to set up such a Temporary Committee of inquiry, because we believe that a procedure under way will at least block it. Moreover, not only will it block it, it will compromise it. Such committees shall be set up when there is a decision, when the procedure has been completed to review, if necessary, whether this procedure has been followed. Whether it is respected, I will tell you from now on that it is not respected and is not respected by the cabinet. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why? I remind you of the decision made by the National Assembly on 2 June 2016, and unanimously, all the parliamentary groups supported it. Investment cost, investment cost decision, acquisition of... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] On the contrary, there's a transcript. No, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u176	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u177	On the contrary, they supported him. Look at the timing there. The decision of the National Assembly was taken on 2 June by the end of May. "Selection of Contractor "September 2016 deadline. Negotiation "November 2016 contract signing "December 2016 " Colleagues, what procedure are we checking? So, as it is written, adopted by the National Assembly, is mandatory for the Council of Ministers, only when did the Council of Ministers comply with the decisions of the National Assembly in these editions of the Council of Ministers? I don't want to say who. Colleagues from GERB, it seems quite untenable to me that this is your proposal, not timely and we believe it will really block an important solution for our country, important for defence capability, and not least, important as an image for our NATO allies. So let us not make such a move that will compromise ourselves as a country. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u178	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u179	Dear Mr. Tsonev, dear Mr. Chairman! The Commission will not only not interfere with the government's work, this has been stated repeatedly, on the contrary, the Commission will strive during its work to assist the process. If, in the process of the Commission's work, facts and data become known that can cause concerns that can cause and cause harmful consequences, the Commission will feel obliged, I suppose, to inform the government, to inform Parliament, to inform all interested parties. So to make suggestions that this Commission will somehow block the government's work, I think it is incorrect. This Commission is created precisely for this to assist the government's work and to calm the general situation which is already tense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u180	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Second line? Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u181	Dear Mr. Tsonev, just two brief remarks. First of all, the whole project on 2 June was not supported both for the plane and for the ship, by the group of BSP then, only Mr. Angel Naydenov voted for. From then until December, until the requests for proposals were sent, the draft was parliamentary control in the Defence Committee and the opposition colleagues were then extremely active and the process had control. From the moment he was already a caretaker government until the election of a new government, the situation was already without parliamentary control and without control of the executive power. We just want to do our job the way it is, without interfering with the negotiations, to be able to see what happened and to exercise the control that Parliament should normally exercise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u182	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Tsonev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u183	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Hristov, your line gives me the opportunity to say something that I forgot to say in my speech. Not only will I interfere with the procedure, because I have participated in numerous committees of inquiry, some of them I have been chairman of, and I know how they function, they require documents, they stop the process, they ask, they do hearings and so on. There's no way the process can go as long as there's such a check-in procedure going on. But for me and for us from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, this is another attempt by the Council of Ministers to transfer responsibility to the National Assembly. A responsibility he must bear with his decision. It is clearly stated in the decision of the National Assembly: first, what procedure should be followed, second, what are the steps, expert opinion, hearings, decisions and so on. This is not the responsibility of the National Assembly. The return of the ball here, in this Chamber, with this Commission has this objective.. to transfer responsibility here to us. It is not that we are running away from responsibility, but it is not our responsibility either by Constitution or by law or by the Rules or by this decision which we have adopted ourselves. And this is not the first time that the hot potato from the Council of Ministers is thrown here in this room. Let the Council of Ministers do its job as provided for in this decision. Nothing prevents the current members of the Council of Ministers from making a decision that is different from what the office has taken. He has these powers, and we know it well. I don't need to transfer responsibility here because it doesn't belong here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u184	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. The word has the people representative Vladimir Toshev, after him the people representative Krum Zarkov and after him the people representative Veselin Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I continue the topic from the previous one, the responsibility lies entirely with the National Assembly. Because it's not the transfer of potatoes or anything else, it's the implementation of the Law. You know that four years ago we changed the ZOVS every deal that takes place for the military over 100 million must pass with ratification of the National Assembly. For information only, I am telling you that the letter on the intentions of a proposal sent to Portugal, the United States, Italy and Sweden is 200 pages, which means that the answer to these questions that we have asked as characteristics of the new fighter is certainly greater. I don't think any of us will be able to understand what it says inside and what is answered in tables, graphics, comparisons and so on. Do you agree to vote ratification of a treaty that is predestined by the caretaker government without any control? It is about 30 years of perspective in our military aviation, it is about spending a billion and a half Bulgarian leva. I disagree. Therefore, I would like these comments, which have been raised for several days in the media, already here and here from the stands of the National Assembly, and no one is saying that it is necessary to be rejected "Gripen" that it has to be elected "F-16" or "Eurofiter" and we just want information on how and why the protocol of the working group, created by order of the working prime minister, should be established so quickly and without any consultations. Because the elections passed on 26 March, the decision was made on 29 March and this protocol of the working group was approved, that is, three days after it was clear what was the arrangement of the current National Assembly. But let's talk a little more professionally, without emotions, because do any of you remember when you were introduced into armaments? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] F-16s, too, yeah. ==References====External links==* "F-16" and "MIG-29" are teams of 40 years ago. And when 20 or 30 years from now, it is said why Bulgaria is armed with "Gripen" or "F-16" anyone will hardly remember exactly what was said by this tribune or how the decisions were made. However, we are setting the strategy for the development of our air force in the next tens of years. And that's why we all need to, and through us and everyone who pays this deal, to be clear to them exactly how the money will be spent and why this way. No one denies the qualities of either a Grippen or a F-16 or a Eurofinder or a Hornet or any other fighter plane. However, we need to understand what we want a light airplane for .Ear Polysing, only one aircraft that is primarily designed for air-to-air combat, or one multi-purpose fighter that can work from under water to near space. Besides, I want to tell you professionally here, the plane isn't a car, it's not a vehicle, it's not a shirt to have a second-hand plane. There's no such thing as a second-hand fighter. Don't say things we don't understand. You don't talk about a plane for years, you talk about a plane for hours, and then when we talk about these things, we're prepared to know what we're talking about. ==External links========================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================= There are modernizations of Unit 60 on the F-16s, and the F-35s, which are already entering arms in the rich NATO countries, can also work in space. He's a new platform. We can't build on the next generation, any other plane. There's one thing. There's one thing. There's Sweden. There's another one. [[Noise and lines.]] We are not predestining absolutely nothing, only that we are constantly talking about transparency, about clarity, about clear criteria, about clear answers, and now, when we want Parliament to hear how and why the working group has ranked in this way in the first place Why did this happen? Personally, I'm interested, I don't know. We say absolutely nothing against the president or the task force. We want to find out the information, and then we'll come up with a report, see what it says inside. How can this tribune of highly responsible politicians say that when information is sought and clarity and transparency is sought, it is not anti-corruption. What's anti-corruption? That in two weeks a working group, which is most likely highly professional, I have the order of prof. Gerdjikov, most likely a highly professional group has made its decision in two weeks, we want to see exactly what it says inside, why she took it and why she recommended... Keep in mind that not quite true claims that nothing is predestined, because the validation of the working group's protocol with a decision of the Council of Ministers is ranking candidates and it becomes almost mandatory. So the things that we need this temporary committee, which we are now setting up, to clarify, will only be for everyone's benefit. Secondly, we stress the third or fifth time already saying that the Temporary Committee of the Assembly will in no way block, delay, hold, stop, whatever in this terminology, the work of the Council of Ministers in the selection of a new fighter. So let's talk seriously, responsibly and with thought for the next ten years. We do not change our computers here, our iPads, or anything we can make a new decision about the day after tomorrow to change it, but we act for the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria for tens of years. In this regard, I would like to tell you that it is high time that we made a decision here in this House to support agreements that we have signed more than 13 years ago with NATO. Not only to consume, but also to contribute to NATO's collective security. And we can do that when we select the right fighter for aviation to meet the requirements of our armed forces in a set. Because there is also no answer to the question: why, after we started simultaneously the processes for the warship and for the battle plane, suddenly no one is talking about the ship, and the plane is extremely busy for it to be delivered. We don't mind. However, from this tribune, I have personally stated, and many of my colleagues have stated that the Armed Forces no less need a infantry fighting machine. We expect by the end of next month to have the idea of what Land Forces, Defense Headquarters and the Ministry of Defense want, so that we can do so that in the budget we rely on, we can also get involved in equipment with a new infantry war machine of ground troops. Next thing. Let us be aware that with the money we are about to spend, we will practically guarantee the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. We will not satisfy the political ambitions of GERB or BSP or anyone else. Then when we make that decision, we need to have information. Because it is unacceptable to spend 1 and a half billion leva on an airplane that is ranked, I am not saying wrong, I am saying wrong, but I am saying in the dark, without being informed we who need to ratify this decision. I repeat, the treaty, when it comes to its ratification, will enter here and we must say why and how this money is spent. And with regard to the composition of the Temporary Commission, why is it proportionate? Well, because, as you very often repeat, these 1 and a half billion leva are paid by voters, and this room is filled with the same voters in this way. We therefore want the Commission to be proportionate. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u186	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. First line................................................................................................ Second line, Veselin Mareshki. Third line, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u187	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Toshev! You obviously have knowledge of military matters, and perhaps the moment will come when you express them in front of the Chamber. But it was March 26th. Such a discussion and similar statements that you have proposed to us are appropriate when the Council of Ministers has fulfilled its obligations, namely to bring here its Project for a decision to ratify, to choose who this type of aircraft will be. This discussion, which is being held today, is quite another topic, not the way you presented it to us about the type of aircraft. Nearly today we will ratify the decision by which we will buy this plane. The speaker very well told you that this commitment is precisely the Council of Ministers. Prime Minister Borisov articulates in Brussels that we are heading towards this type of aircraft. I don't understand what we're doing here today. We ratify a decision to buy a type of combat plane for the army or we will form a temporary committee of inquiry, on which the only objective is really to hit the presidential institution. Something that does not suit the National Assembly and the Members of the National Assembly. Such a speech, which you held before us and informed us of the qualities of the individual types of aircraft, is welcome, but when the stage order is submitted to the National Assembly, the decision of the Council of Ministers, which can be really cancelled, as Mr. Tsonev said, today, even tomorrow and to start a new procedure. Or if he comes in here, in the Chamber, to be rejected and accordingly to untie the hands of the Council of Ministers, if you are worried that they are bound by the decision of the caretaker government. The inconclusiveness of your claims about the need for such a Commission simply sees from everywhere. That's the truth. The truth, again, is to hit the presidential institution, nothing else. The debate on airplanes will take place in this hall when it is submitted by the Council of Ministers The draft decision. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u188	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Mareshki, here's a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Toshev! I hope you don't want us to get the impression that you're conflicting with the government that you're in favour of, in fact, it censors you and doesn't give you the information if you're so interested. And have the opportunity to get the information you're interested in. This is on the one hand. But since you said to be serious, I'm only going to make a line for you, it's absolutely not serious to claim that when it comes to airplanes, there are only hours. He's got years. Not only hours affect the work and fitness of airplanes, but years. So the years also matter. But that, of course, when we get to the point, we can talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u190	Mr. Tsonev, come in for a third line. They're all about age.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u191	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Toshev! In three directions, you argued the need to establish a temporary committee of inquiry. First, that during the office there was no parliamentary control. Secondly, the National Assembly is responsible because it will ratify. And the third direction was the appropriateness of this decision. Let me get you back to the subject. First of all, there was no parliamentary control. There was no National Assembly. What prevents this National Assembly from carrying out parliamentary control under the procedure with the Permanent Defence Commission? You pointed out in your previous statements that while the previous National Assembly existed, the Defence Committee controlled the process. Well, keep him in control! Why do you need a temporary committee of inquiry? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] Secondly, ratification. Mr. Toshev, we've done hundreds here, not to say thousands of ratifications. There is no ratification by which the National Assembly will rule, which is not accompanied by a detailed report explaining the justification of all parameters, of absolutely everything that needs to be decided on ratification. The report, which will be submitted by the Council of Ministers on this subject, will contain all the components on the basis of which the National Assembly will fulfil its responsibilities to ratify. But taking responsibility for the Council of Ministers' decision is absolutely wrong. And we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms object not only in this case, we have objected to all the cases in which the Council of Ministers gives us back our responsibility. Nothing gets in the way. Is it your time or your argument? Because I think the arguments. Nothing prevents the Council of Ministers from canceling the decision of the previous Council of Ministers! A decision taken by one authority may be revoked, amended by the same authority! To undo this decision in a manner that is justified and to make another decision! Why does this Commission have to do this? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u192	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you go, Mr. Toshev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! First, please extend my time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u194	There's no way you're gonna be able to extend the backrest, but otherwise the group can.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u195	For the band.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u196	Yeah, that doesn't go in the time group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u197	First of all, Mr. Ivanov. We didn't talk about Gripen. We didn't talk about Gripen. We want to know why it's foreordained. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u198	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u199	Second of all, don't try to protect the president. He's strong enough. Perhaps you are afraid, not us, that it will come out in the report of this Commission who was the head of the task force that set the criteria for the plane; who was the head of the task force who wrote the proposal for an inquiry to the manufacturers. Then who was the government's mentor, made the decision about the plane.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u200	Please, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u201	At all stages is Gen. Radev! [[Radio, noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u202	Mr. Toshev, Mr. Toshev! You're pre-determining the job. I object to you implicating the president.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u203	Neither I nor our group have even the slightest conflict with the Council of Ministers. But to tell Mr. Mareshki: the plane's glider may have something to do with the years of production, but everything else has changed and is a matter of hours of flight. And there's nothing left. I'm going to give you an example of this with the He's 60 years old, he's got over 8,000 hours of work, he's been in wars and he's still flying. The next thing in the world there are more than 4,500 produced 16, they fought dozens of wars, there are about 250 Grippens, they didn't fight anywhere, and there are about 470 Eurofighters, and they didn't fight anywhere. Just for the record. With regard to Mr. Tsonev, have an internal consultation with specialists in your group, you have very good experts. Because just a few hours ago, I heard one so serious general from your group who said something, exactly the opposite of what you're saying now.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u204	He's a member.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u205	With regard to the Permanent Committee, you will soon see the composition that we will be proposing from our group. General Popov is not included in order not to have the slightest hint of doubt about a conflict of interest, provided that General Popov has never participated in any working group on preparation of documents at any stage for the choice of fighter. Last, please don't insert criteria and talk about the president. We don't want to attack the president. We'd like to see who and how did you define the Grimpen? Thank you. [[Laughter and noise]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u206	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. The way you're leading it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u207	Dear Mr. Chairman, fellow advisors! Dear Mr. Chairman, do not allow from the stands of the National Assembly pure lobbying for the individual types of aircraft for which we will set up the committee. [[Heckling]] That's the way it is. No lobbying speeches allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u208	Where did you see lobbying? I don't know. Okay. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u209	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Toshev, age matters, and size matters. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u210	Is that a line? Or should Mr. Toshev make a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u211	No, not at all. I will not dwell on all the arguments he has explained to you, Mr. Tsonev. As one of the longest-standing MPs he explained to you very well what this is about. So I'm not going to say it again, I'm going to focus on the second part, which is math. I tried to make the simplest accounts and my information is that the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of BSP has 80 MPs at the will of the Bulgarian people, the parliamentary group of GERB has 95 MPs. And I do not see the proportion of 6 representatives in the BSP Commission, means that by 9 there are 50%, the parliamentary group of GERB should be 120 MPs. Let us, as the people say, share equally, not brotherlylyly. I will ask you because you already have a majority and you make your decisions as you want them and accordingly you have the responsibility to the Bulgarian voter, but make sure that the proportions are really respected and do not worry about that if you have any arguments, there is no ultimate opposition and opposition in general. We have repeatedly argued that we will support all good decisions in favour of the Bulgarian people and will therefore vote against all gays. So at least keep the proportion. Otherwise it is clear that you have a majority, such a Commission will be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u212	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. In the draft decision I presented to you, the representatives of GERB are 8. I don't know where 9 were, but 8 representatives are being offered in this Project Decision. Are there any lines? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Krum Zarkov. You have the floor, dear Mr. Zarkov. After him, the People's Representative Milen Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u213	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let's go back to the draft decision that has been presented to us. The debate repeatedly called for us to look at their motives because, you see, they did not say what we were talking about. Let us doubt, if not in sincerity, at least in the accuracy of these motives. They, for example, say that the reason for today's debate and the request for the establishment of a Temporary Commission are quoted as saying: the various media publications, as well as publicly available information, which raises the question of the need for transparency. I ask what are these media publications, what are these officials' statements, and who has ever questioned the need for transparency? That is not the reason for this debate and this Commission. The reason is an extraordinary press conference, from Sunday, in which it was said that a question is being raised, but not by media or publications, but by representatives of GERB, according to which it is possible to conceal facts about correspondence conducted with all parties. And it ended with mentioning the president and questioning his statements on the political will of this majority to fight corruption. This is the real reason for this Commission. And what should she do according to her motives? It must check a number of documents, process, awareness and so-called facts and circumstances. Well, check them out, have the Department of Defense inspectorates check them out. There was an appointment yesterday. Check what happened at the Council of Ministers? It's under your control. Check and tell me what these informations are. To all the questions you have asked, who has appointed this Commission or that one? Who was the head of the task force? You know the answers. These answers are clear. What's there to check? Naturally, it is not at all the purpose to examine anything in this process, which has also ended in the time period during which this Commission will work, with a decision of the Council of Ministers, which does not bind the current Council of Ministers to adopt the decision it considers appropriate. What is the reason then, and what does this Commission want to do? The real reason is that an unblemished politician, an unblemished man, the President of the Republic, should be dragged into the tar tank of Bulgarian politics and bathed there for two months.,
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u214	Once again, I object to your involvement with President Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u215	so that you can reduce what really pisses you off. And what pisses you off is his ratings, his popularity. And why is that? Because you understand very well that even though you are champions of election victories, you will never reach what he has reached, namely people love him, respect him and trust him. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u216	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? The way you're leading it? Here you go, Mr. Popov. Every time someone mentions President Radev's name, I will object, as the subject of discussion is different.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u217	That's why I'm doing the procedure in the way you're keeping it, because you're just contradicting your own claims. When my colleague Toshev spit out why this committee is being done, you didn't object in any way, and now you're doing it again. Here there was a confession in practice and the result of this committee was predetermined, because there was not five minutes ago, the President's name was said several times. But you didn't take any attitude at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u218	If you followed closely what was happening in the Chamber, you would understand that I also objected to the mention of President Radev's name by MP Vladimir Toshev. If it wasn't so loud with you and you didn't talk to each other, Mr. Popov, you would hear that I objected to his statement. [[National Representative Slavcho Velkov wants the floor.]] Here you go. For procedure? A statement. Before you is the People's Representative Milen Mihov and then you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u219	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, we are witnessing that BSP, DPS and theirs, Volja....have declared on behalf of the parliamentary majority war of the President and stood beside him. In fact, we are buying these planes not to fight the president, but to never possibly fight our opponents. Secondly, surprisingly were the arguments of all the defenders who spoke, we have to say the author of the idea of war that the control of the executive power must be carried out by the executive itself, because that is how logic comes out. The advocates of parliamentaryism, those who described us as rubber heads, and a rubber stamp that verifies executive power, now say, well, let the executive check itself. The issue of the new type of fighter aircraft concerns Bulgarian aviation. Bulgarian aviation is a symbol for the army, a symbol for the nation. It is a symbol for the army as power, as victory and as history, but it is also a symbol for the nation as sovereignty, as technological superiority, as an instrument of a state that stands at the highest levels of civilization. The acquisition of a new battle plane is not just about the army. It affects every citizen, too, because every citizen has an attitude towards his own nation. The procedure that has started and is under way will be carried out in the management of two presidents, three governments and two members of the National Assembly. It has already been mentioned that in this process many figures, many individuals exchanged fields in the chessboard. Some have reached their eighth position and become queens. In this sense, I think that the establishment of such a temporary committee is a standard procedure, something completely normal that must happen and which should put the truth, transparency and credibility of the processes in their place. In this sense, we in the United Patriarchs will support and vote for such a committee. I think the refusal to support this committee should also be followed by a refusal to participate in its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u220	Thank you, Professor Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to say that I am somewhat provoked by what we have heard and by the zealous protection of one of the MPs for a particular type of combat plane which almost sounded like a lobbying statement. I will not allow myself to mention a brand, a type of combat plane, but I will say the following: those planes, dear Mr. Toshev, which you mentioned, are not second-hand, but a third, are distributed in the designated military cemetery of the United States Air Force in Arizona, and have been produced more than 40 years ago. So you deliberately avoided that moment, which is called the airplane modification, and they are many modifications of this plane, and its life cycle. That is to say, his resource is to be used. You all know what this is about. I won't mention the other plane. However, we are here to talk about the establishment of a temporary committee, not about the ratification of a contract to purchase a new type of combat plane. So, in this regard, I'd like to tell Assoc. Mihov, that the Defence Committee, which in this National Assembly has a huge capacity of air force specialists, including two former Air Force commanders, and two former Chiefs of Defense, could deal with the problem of studying data, circumstances and facts regarding the new type of combat plane. Why do I think the reason for this committee's proposal is purely political? I'll make a few quotes, you'll guess who they're from. The first one: "There is a doubt about corrupt practices at the highest level. For example, President Radev has defended the decision before it was taken. " - How can something be protected before it is taken, I cannot explain, but that was the quote. We're going to investigate the case, we're not going to find the data, we're going to investigate the facts! We'll have a note of the cooperation of all those involved in this process and will end up at the committee's meeting. How do you know, gentlemen and ladies, that they will respond and cooperate with you? How do you know there'll be a committee at all? [[The People's Representative Snezana Spirits: "How should we not know?."]] You'll know after the decision! Finally. Because Mr. Tsvetanov said from this stand this morning that he mentioned the word "Sweden." Here is a quote: We have enough doubts about the conclusions we have drawn from open sources that President Radev has defended the decision to buy Swedish fighters.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u222	I didn't say "Sweden."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u223	If the Swedish and Swedish have nothing in common, I take back my words and apologize to Mr. Tsvetanov. If you think there is, accept it. I'd even go further, but I don't want to guess, but I can analyze. You, Mr. Tsvetanov, are not just talking about open sources. You have something else in mind, and you will see that in the course of the commission's work it will come out. Now, you've identified the target, it's clear that this is the President and Commander-in-Chief Radev...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u224	Once again, I object.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u225	...but I'll ask you just one question, I'm done, Mr. Chairman. How much will the gun cost you if it's your empty rifle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u226	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. - What's the line? I won't. For personal explanations Assoc. Mihov, then the People's Representative Vladimir Toshev. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Toshev insists on making a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm holding on to a line, not an explanation, because I want to debate with Mr. Velkov. Two questions, Mr. Velkov. We want to find out in this Temporary Commission why the country that has been declassed has not been notified? I'm not a lobbyist for either Portuguese or American or for any F16. The truth we want is clarity and transparency! [[Noise and lines.]] Well, I know because I've been on the subject for 50 years. That's why I know. Secondly, I want you to give me an answer, if you know, of course, which of the fighters' suppliers is not Sweden [[Heckling]] This isn't Sweden!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u228	You, Assoc. Mihov, do you want to debate or for a personal explanation? [[National Representative Milen Mihov does not wish to take the floor.]] Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Toshev, I admit you exposed me when you said it wasn't Sweden. Because you've shown me how much you know, to tell you this. The Swedish firm, I'm still not gonna mention it because I could be accused of lobbying, involved in such scandals. [[Heckling]] They're in Hungary and the Czech Republic. You said, "It's not Sweden!" Mr. Tsvetanov, you're surprised. Read a little, read more! This does not mean anything, as we are talking at the moment not about fighters, not ratifications, we are talking about the need to set up a Temporary Commission and whether this Commission will do what it wants. One thing Mr. Tsvetanov has stated is that we will investigate the case, the other is a temporary committee to investigate the case. We need to work things out here, too. Since I have time, I will tell Mr. Toshev, because he has repeatedly mentioned that measure 17 times. I'll tell you the procedure is, notice, for a new type of fighter plane. That is, one that meets NATO's operational and compatibility requirements, which is able to intercept, lead air combats, reconnaissance, air reconnaissance and, above all, to carry out and engage in the aviation support actions of ground troops. If you tell me that the one you advertise so much meets these requirements 47 years after your creation, then I just can't believe you. I have answered your question, but now I expect you to say in a personal explanation of which is the country that is not Sweden. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u230	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. To complete the procedures for personal explanation assoc. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u231	Highly esteemed Mr. Chairman, esteemed Mr. Velkov! I fully agree with the fact that the Defence Committee has a high degree of expertise. This is due to all the political parties that have proposed such MPs. But I can't agree with you, and your colleagues who say, "In the motives there is no such thing, but it is the truth." This concerns me personally because what Mr. Tsvetanov said at a press conference is his right. What we signed, we stand behind him. That's what concerns us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u232	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. [[Noise and lines.]] At the risk of attacking me for the manner of conduct, I implore all MPs to distinguish between the vocabulary used at press conferences and in plenary if they do not. [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any other statements? Mr. Tsvetanov. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u233	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am very pleased that we are having such a debate. I believe that this is the place where the costs of such serious projects are being incurred. There is nowhere else to have such a meaningful debate, except in the Bulgarian Parliament. I do not understand why colleagues from BSP recognized themselves in lobbying and that someone wants to take action against the Bulgarian President. No, we just want the truth to come out because honourable colleagues on the left, if there were such debates on the important projects that our country implemented and spent the money of the Bulgarian taxpayers, did not have Borisov's government to pay for the nuclear power plant. There was no such political debate then, but there was a solution with which you just wanted to oblige the next generations to pay, because you do not care what happens to our country. However, we are a responsible party and have not participated either in privatisation or in the plundering of the state in the years of transition. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] When we created the Political Party GERB, we made a commitment to our voters and to the voters of Bulgaria that we will work only for truth and transparency. I do not understand why today you are doing obstruction in the creation of a committee, which you are constantly alarming that the actions of each institution should be monitored when it is linked to huge funds. Here, of course, you started the debate and you think someone has something for President Radev. No, President Radev is President of the Republic of Bulgaria and he will remain until he fulfils these obligations. As far as the forensics are concerned... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u234	Don't you agree with what Mr. Tsvetanov says? I don't understand why you're so excited.! There's a lot of excitement there. Can there be order in this room?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u235	Can I at least quote the interviews President Radev gave you? May I? [[Noise and lines.]] However, you must have read the interviews he gave after returning from his visit to Hungary in 2016. All the time he talked only about Hungary, about a company and about a country, I will not mention how well they organized things and how things happen. Just minutes ago, one of your MPs here said that it was Hungary and the Czech Republic who bought the Brippen and had scandals and doubts about corruption deals. [[Applause from GERB.]] Dear colleagues, do we want the truth to come out? I can't believe that from those countries that have purchased the Grippen, two of them are members of the NAT, the rest are not. There are seven countries in total, as far as I know. These two are the Czech Republic and Hungary and they end in scandal! What I can tell you right now, I don't know if you followed closely what's going on in Slovakia. The Slovak Government is charged with suspicion of corruption because of the procedure for taking and determining the conclusion of a contract for "Gripen". Dear colleagues on the left, the general public's doubts are precisely that the government will in all likelihood enter into some corruption scheme. Notice, the President of the Slovak President supports the actions of the citizens, because always the President of the country must be about transparency. [[Applause.]] This is exactly what we want and what we hope you, as some worthy citizens, will support this Commission. Otherwise, it means there's something you'd be worried about. We have nothing to worry about. We are here and will participate with our colleagues from the Defence Committee. I believe that the focus here should be much sharper because this is not the normal routine work of a committee, as is the ongoing Defence Commission. Here we have the spending of 1 billion. 500 million. lv. If this money is not important to you, it is important to us because we want a 4-year management mandate, to fulfil our commitments to Bulgarian pensioners, as well as to all agreeable organizations that have decent work and should receive a decent salary, and it can only be possible when we limit even the slightest suspicions of corruption and we are transparent to the Bulgarian voters with such committees of inquiry. Therefore, honourable Members, I am convinced that you will support the establishment of this Committee of Polls, and I hope that the President we respect will also stand by our side, because he himself needs to clear his name, because at the moment you have tarnished him in the way that you have dragged him into this scandal! [[Strong noise and lines from BSP left Bulgaria.]] We didn't want the president to enter this controversy because he's the country's president-in-chief. However, you insist that he be mentioned, that he be involved in this procedure under the so-called "Anket Commission." We will not allow it, because the President must not be called to the Commission. [[Applause from GERB.]] We will call on those who have a direct relationship and those who have participated in the formation of this opinion to whether all the facts and circumstances have been taken into account. Because otherwise there's doubt, and doubt is a very bad thing. I can tell you something about doubt. The then leader of BSP Sergey Stanishev had doubts when the Minister of Interior said we were listening in with the catchers, but the importer of the equipment then said that this technique could not listen in. This has been proven and the doubt you have made as a suggestion has been dropped. You are true kings to make suggestions, to make false news and to build your policy of populism. We are a political force, we are a forming majority, which works only in the interests of the people. We'll show it with every sector policy when our four-year term of office is over. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u236	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. First line.. People's representative Slavcho Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am one of the true kings, Mr. Tsvetanov. I just want to replicate you. I didn't think you'd take the bait lightly. Yeah, I was referring to a Swedish firm in the Czech Republic and Hungary. But it's about a company that manufactures a popular brand of cars. Thank you. [[Replying in GERB, laughter and applause in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Otherwise it's Volvo.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u238	Second line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u239	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, your speech was the statement of a worried person and I truly sympathize with you. You have something to worry about. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" in GERB.]] A worried person who's probably playing the role of...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u240	Please, no psychoanalysis of speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u241	Please, Mr. Chairman! I'm speaking, and you have no right to interrupt me. I am talking about what is said and how it is perceived.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u242	Why are you analyzing his mental state?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u243	Whoever once made some kind of commitment, and now that these commitments have not been fulfilled, is looking for an excuse with some committees. I have to tell you that your guarantors won't understand you. They won't forgive you! What you're doing right now is a political circus! I'm sorry to tell you this. One such parliamentary group should not depend on such small banter that you are trying to make right now and suggest. Even though Mr. President has not made a few remarks about the use of the word "President of the Republic of Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u244	He very respectfully used the word and said he didn't connect it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u245	This Commission will not save you from your guarantors! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u246	The third line is the People's Representative Zhelyo Boychev. I ask you to disagree with what the speaker has said, not to conduct a psychoanalysis.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u247	Believe me, that's all I'm gonna do, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Tsvetanov! Do you talk to Prime Minister Borisov? I hope you two talk. And if so, why didn't you warn him about his meeting with the Swedish Prime Minister about these data and doubts you have about corruption and lobbying in determining and ranking the choice of fighter, as the Prime Minister of Bulgaria made a public commitment to the Prime Minister of Sweden? And I don't know what we're going to discuss from now on and what we're going to check. And there was a debate when we approved investment projects. There will be a debate when the Council of Ministers makes the decision to choose, Mr. Tsvetanov. I hope you will be consistent in this fight against corruption. I would like to remind you that when we submitted the request for an inquiry committee on how to spend the funds for highway construction, you refused. Then it turned out that the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office found a lot of doubts and pressed charges. I want this appeal to become an act when we discuss today's proposal for a committee of inquiry for the National Palace of Culture to investigate how the funds for the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency are spent, if you are sincere and consistent in what you say.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u248	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u249	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Are we talking to the Prime Minister? Yeah, sure. Even today, we've talked at least three times. I can assure you that the Prime Minister is very executive about any decision taken by the Council of Ministers, whether he was a Prime Minister or a Prime Minister, was Professor. Gerdjikov with political support and the establishment of the office by Rumen Radev. As for the guarantors, yes, I have guarantors. These are my constituents. [[(Applause from GERB, shouts:]] I have to be honest. I am convinced that every MP who stands on this platform has guarantors because these are his voters who voted for him or the party he represents. We are not ashamed of our constituents. We are not ashamed of your constituents, too, because we know that your constituents, when they find out the truth, will come to us! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u250	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any other statements? I'll take that as a no. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the first four points of the draft decision presented to you. Please vote. In the event that this Commission is adopted, we will move to the fifth point of choice of leadership and composition. After the fifth point of insistence of the Secretariat, we will also vote on the sixth point, which sets the deadline. They voted 203 MPs: 106, against 89, abstention 8. The draft decision has been adopted. We are going to vote on the fifth point of the Decision - the choice of leadership and composition of the Temporary Commission. From the parliamentary group of the Political Party GERB. You are welcome for eight proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u251	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I propose for members of the Temporary Committee to study the implementation of the procedure for the selection of a new type of combat plane by the parliamentary group of GERB the following candidates: Emil Hristov for Chairman; Hristo Gadzhev for Vice-President, and members: Plamen Manushev, Vladimir Toshev, Anton Todorov, Anna Alexandrova, Evgenia Angelova and Manuil Manev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u252	Thank you, Mr. Tashkov. From the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is the word Mr. Stoynev. I expect six proposals from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have no claim to a vice-president's seat. It's all played out between the ruling coalition anyway. Mr. Zhelyo Boychev, Mr. Philip Popov, Mr. Spas Panchev, Mr. Nikolay Tsonkov, Mr. Petar Vitanov and Mr. Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u254	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. The Parliamentary Group "United Patriarchs" is welcome for two proposals, dear Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u255	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs, we propose as members the Commission Assoc. Milen Mihov and Mr. Boris Vangelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u256	Thank you. The Parliamentary Group on Rights and Freedoms is also two proposals. Mr. Letifov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Committee on Rights and Freedoms, we propose Mr. Simeon Simeonov and Mr. Jayhan Ibryamov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u258	Thank you. From the political party's parliamentary group, please come in for a proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u259	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! On behalf of the political party parliamentary group, we propose Slavi Netsov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. There's an unemployed vice-president's seat. Is that how it's gonna stay? [[Noise and lines.]] There aren't any. We will vote on the composition of the temporary Commission and the leadership: President Emil Hristov and Vice-President Hristo Gazhev, as well as on the sixth point: It's six. The Commission shall be set up for a period of two months. Vote 196 MPs: 128 against 3, abstention 65. The fifth and sixth points have been accepted. Now I'm voting on the whole draft decision. Vote 192 MPs: 114, against 69, abstention 9. The draft decision has been adopted. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE BULGARIAN FOOD AGENCY. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2017. Report on the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Who will present the report? The President of the Commission. "The People's Representative Desislava Taneva. [[Noise. Part of the MPs from all parliamentary groups are leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u261	Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u262	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, I present to your attention...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u263	Mrs. Taneva, just a moment. Please take your seats, colleagues, or leave the room. Please, order in the court. Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u264	Presenting: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a bill amending the Law on the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency No 702-01-5 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2017. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 21 June 2017, discussing a Draft Law amending the Law on the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, No 702-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2017. A preliminary impact assessment has been applied to the bill in accordance with art. 76, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission's work was attended by: the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests Representatives of NGOs were also present. The Bill changes the structure of the Council of Ministers and the transformation of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, and changes all existing laws relevant to the functions of the Ministry and the powers of the Minister and Deputy Ministers of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The adoption of the changes will ensure compliance of the legal basis with the structure of the Council of Ministers, will enable the settlement of all relations and functions related to the transformation of the ministry and will create a legal basis for amendments to the regulations, within the competence of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. In conclusion, after the vote was taken, the Committee on Agriculture and Food with 18 votes for the Food Safety Act, No 702-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2017, proposed unanimously to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment to the Law on the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, No 702-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u265	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. I'm opening the debate. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Law on the Bulgarian Food Safety Association, No 702-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2017. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The proposal has been adopted, and with this and the first vote the Law amending the Law on the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u266	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Please vote on a proposal: the period between the first and second reading of the just-votes at first-reading Bill to be shortened from 7 to 3 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u267	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. I put to the vote the procedure for reducing the period between the first and second reading of the Bill for proposals. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLAINTING THE LAW FOR MILITARY PAINTERS. Report from Gen. Popov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u268	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe on a bill supplementing the Military Monuments Act, No 754-01-21, submitted by Valentin Kirilov Kasabov and a group of MPs on 14 June 2017. At a regular meeting held on 22 June 2017, the Defence Committee examined on the first vote a bill supplementing the Military Monuments Act, No 754-01-21, submitted by Valentin Kirilov Kasabov and a group of MPs on 14 June 2017. The meeting was attended by 20 MPs. Deputy Minister Atanas Zapreyanov, director of the Legal and Normal Activities Directorate (Clementina Deneva) and director of the Social Policy Directorate (S &amp; D) took part in the discussion of the Draft. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Christian Mitev, who noted that the law will allow monuments of the deceased border guards to acquire status as military monuments. Members of the National Assembly Milen Mihov, Nikolay Tsonkov, Emil Hristov and Plamen Manushev took part in the discussion. In their speeches, they supported the Bill, stressing the need for some of the texts to be refined before considering it in the second vote. The draft Law provided opinions by the Ministry of Defence, which generally support the texts of the changes, but also offer editorial changes by the Ministry of Interior, which fully support it. After hearing the reasons and closing the discussion, a vote was held, as a result of which the Defence Committee with a result: 11 votes.............................................................................................. and 9 votes...................... was adopted by..........................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u269	Thank you, dear General Popov. An importer's opinion or direct statements? Here you go, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u270	Madam President, honourable Members! Motives to the draft law to supplement the Military Monuments Act. For the purposes of art. 4, para 1 of the Military Monuments Act, the real material evidence of the glorification of Bulgarian army soldiers, in the performance of their duty in peacetime in the protection of the population, are considered as military monuments among the rest mentioned in this law, the soldiers of the Bulgarian army took part in a war led by the Bulgarian state, the fallen Bulgarian soldiers in participation in operations and missions outside the country, the participants in the Bulgarian militia during the Russo-Turkish Liberation War and the participants in the Macedonia-Odrin militia. On the territory of the country there are many real material evidences of the glory of Bulgarian border guards who dedicated their lives, protecting the privacy of the state border of the Republic of Bulgaria, the public order in the country, as well as the calmness of the citizens over the years. These real material evidences at this time do not fall within the category of military monuments within the meaning of the Military Monuments Act, as a result of which they do not have legal status and order to search, study, registration, filing, conservation, maintenance, restoration and construction. At the moment on a public basis and voluntary principle some care is being taken for this type of real material witness, mainly by former and current border guards from the Internet forum. Therefore, we offer an addition to art. 4, para. 1 of the Military Monuments Act, declaring a real material witness in memory and glorifying Bulgarian border guards gave their lives, protecting the privacy of the state border of the Republic of Bulgaria and public order in the country. No funds are necessary for the implementation of the proposed amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u271	Thank you, dear Mr. Kasabov. Mr. Velkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u272	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say that we will support the amendments to the Military Monuments Act. At a meeting of the Defence Committee, we abstained not because we would not support, on the contrary, because, honourable Members, we believe that the proposed changes do not comply with the real reality, with military monuments and military cemeteries. I am in a hurry to tell you that, within the meaning of the current Act, Art. 4 paragraphs 1 and 2, military monuments are not individual graves and permanent tomb symbols on them, as well as those of convicted of a deliberate crime of a common nature. In addition, in para. 1 and para. 2 we will propose between first and second reading changes that relate, notice, to the monuments of glorified Bulgarian military leaders, to brave men who died in the wars for Bulgaria, but for one reason or another their monuments are located outside those designated as military monuments. I'll tell you just a few of them, ladies and gentlemen: Daniel Nikolaev, Gen. Paprikov, General. Mikhail Savov, Ivan Fichev, General. Ivan Marinov. These are six war ministers, whose monuments are not military monuments, army chiefs of state Protogerov and so on. We will therefore submit a concrete proposal and invite you to support us so that the monuments of these Bulgarian heroes who contributed to the Bulgarian military art and fought in the glory of Bulgaria can find their place. As far as border guards are concerned. We will also offer an addition, agree, but it will be the border guards who died in the performance of their duty of protection and security at the state border. What will be the proposal under point two, you will hear it between first and second readings, but everything is directed not to be forgotten these people. Because, if you do not know, let me tell you, at this time the care for military monuments are carried out by the National Military History Museum with a very small composition of people, which has two branches in South Bulgaria, the other in Eastern, respectively Krumovo and Varna. What we are going to propose will also be directed at the grounds for requesting an additional budget and state to supplement these concerns. I would like to draw your attention, I see that there are members of the Defence Committee here, and here is the Chairman General. Popov, let's be particularly careful when we talk about the Bulgarian militia. Colleagues, the Bulgarian militia was part of the Russian army in force. Of course the Bulgarian militias will have their military monuments, but keep in mind that their commanders were Russian officers acting and I do not know, Mr. General, how we will separate the bones of Lieutenant Colonel Kalitin and Korchev, it just does not fit my mind. That is why, in my opinion, between first and second readings and in debates, we will make the relevant proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u273	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u274	I'll say one sentence: from BSP do not make policies with the dead and with the heroes. You're entering a dangerous sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u275	You don't have to do this!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u276	Thank you, dear Mr. Kasabov. Second line? Mr. Velkov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u277	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President! I'm surprised at what Mr. Kasabov said. This isn't about politics. It's about paying what's right. If he's okay with the General Monument. Vladimir Vazov, General Vazov. Georgi Vazov, General Vazov. Kolev the father of the Bulgarian cavalry, to be outside the Law on Military Monuments, this is already politics. And they're in the 48th plot of Sofia's central cemetery. Just when their monuments were placed, along with the monuments of the brave Sixth Regiment officers and the fallen of Slivnitsa, there was no military cemetery. We want something very simple. Those who now care about military monuments take care of these monuments. If you want, Mr. Kasabov, let's go together, I was, three plots are, you'll see that they're abandoned, some are not paid fees, some are broken records, overgrown. That's not politics. This isn't politics! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u278	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Please, the Quaestors, invite your colleagues to the Chamber. We move on to the first vote of the Bill for Supplement to the Law on Military Monuments, No 754-01-21, submitted by Valentin Kirilov Kasabov and a group of MPs on 14 June 2017. Please vote. Vote 108 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda, we may have time to read just one report: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PUBLIC PRESENTATION OF PRINCIPAL SECURITIES. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. [[Radio.]] Colleagues, please don't move in the room. Please take your seats. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u279	Colleagues, three more minutes of patience.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u280	That's exactly what we need.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u281	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, No 754-01-10, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev and Danail Dimitrov Kirilov on 25 May 2017. At its regular meeting on 14 June 2017, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Finance: Tsvetanka Mihailova by the Financial Supervision Commission: Vladimir Savov from the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria: Vasil Velev Chairman; from the Association of Banks in Bulgaria: Irina Kazandjieva and Borislava Dimitrova; Bulgarian Stock Exchange (Bulgarian Stock Exchange), and Central Depository (Central Depository) AD: Vasil Golemanski, Executive Director of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange and Central Depository, Ivan Takev, Executive Director of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange and member of the Board of Directors of the Central Depository, and Georgi Bulgarian Member of the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange; from the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund: Borislav Stratev a member of the Board; and From the Investor Compensation Fund: Theodora Drenska The bill was presented by the MP Delyan Dobrev. It aims to improve the investment environment and stimulate the development of the capital market in the Republic of Bulgaria by optimising regulatory requirements in the field of public offering of securities. The bill provides: - changes in the arrangements for the public offering of securities and the admission of securities to trading on a regulated market; - amendments to the arrangements of the Investor Compensation Fund; - changes in the arrangements for the primary public offering of bonds and their admission to trading on a regulated market; - changes in the arrangements of public companies; - amendments to the arrangements of the regime for disclosure by the persons referred to in § 1e of the Additional Provisions of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, as well as amendments to other laws relating to the Bill. Expected consequences of the adoption of the Bill are easing regulatory regulation, shortening the time limits for the decision of the supervisory authority in certain administrative proceedings, greater transparency in the capital market and more effective investor protection. Written opinions on the Draft Law were received by the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Supervision Commission, the Bulgarian Stock Exchange "Sofia" JSC, the Central Depository, the Association of Banks in Bulgaria, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the American Chamber of Commerce in Bulgaria, the Fund for Guarantee of Deposits in Banks and the Institute of Graduated Accountants in Bulgaria. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities, No 754-01-10, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev and Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov on 25 May 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-28.u282	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Colleagues, we have two more reports from the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Legal Affairs, which are quite long. So we'll continue tomorrow with this point. Tomorrow a regular meeting of 9:00 p.m. with first point of the Law on ratification of the Framework Agreement for a loan between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Bulgaria, a mechanism for co-financing of projects implemented by European Union funds under the operational programmes co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds for the 2014-2020 programming period, an importer of the Council of Ministers. Due to running out of time, I'm closing the session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
