ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u1	Good morning, fellow Members of the National Assembly! I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. Honourable Members, allow me to present to you the draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period 14 June 2017, after clarification and adoption by the Conference of Presidents: 1. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Road Traffic Act. Importers: People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 2 June 2017. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Energy Act. Importers: People's Representative Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs on 18 May 2017. Adopted on 1 June 2017 in the first vote. 3. Projects of decisions to complete the compositions of Standing Committees. 4. Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination 2016. Importer: Commission for Protection against Discrimination on 30 May 2017. 5. First vote on the bill supplementing the Social Security Code. Importers: National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 20 April 2017. 6. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Election Code. The first is with importers: the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 10 May 2017; the second with importers: the national representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs on 8 June 2017. It is proposed to be point 1 for Thursday 15 June 2017. 7. Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period 1 January 30 June 2016 and Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period 1 January 31 December 2016. Importer: The Supervisory Board of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control on 16 May 2017. 8. Annual report on the Commission's activity on the prevention and detection of conflicts of interest for 2016. Importer: Commission on the Prevention and establishment of conflicts of interest on 1 June 2017. 9. Parliamentary control. Depending on how we end up with the other points, we will decide tomorrow whether to be at 9:00 or 11:00 parliamentary control on Friday. Please vote. They voted 203 MPs: for 195, against 1, abstention 7. Our work program has been accepted. Messages. Draft and draft decisions for the period from 7 June to 13 June 2017 including: On 7 June 2017, a Law supplementing the Penal Code was adopted. Importers: People's Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to a leading Committee on Legal Affairs. On 8 June 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code was adopted. Importers: the national representative Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. Once again assigned to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs. On 8 June 2017, a Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted. Importers: People's Representative Anelia Klisarova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Education and Science and to the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 9 June 2017, a Draft Law amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2017. Importer: Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. On 9 June 2017, a Draft Law on the ratification of a Framework Agreement on a loan between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Bulgaria, a co-financing mechanism for projects implemented by the European Union under operational programmes co-financed by the ESI Funds for the 2014-2020 programming period. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Budget and Finance, to the Committee on Legal Affairs and to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 12 June 2017, a Draft Law amending the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted. Importer: Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Defence, as well as to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. On 13 June 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure was adopted. Importer: Council of Ministers. The bill is about to be distributed. On 13 June 2017, a draft decision was received to complete the composition of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Importer: People's Representative Dragomir Stoinev. On 13 June 2017, a draft decision to complete the composition of the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics was adopted. Importer: People's Representative Dragomir Stoinev. On 13 June 2017, a Report on the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act was received. Importer: People's Representative Dimitar Lazarov, Chairman of the Commission. On 13 June 2017, a draft decision setting out the Commission for the Auditing of the Annual Financial Statements of the Court of Auditors for 2015 and 2016 was received. Importer: People's Representative Menda Stoyanova. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 8 June 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 8 June 2017 to 25 June 2017 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 June 2017 to 25 June 2017 (OJ L 55, 12.1.2001, p. 1). No 724-00-6 of the Court of Auditors in the National Assembly received a Report on the results of the control carried out to implement the recommendations under Audit Report No 0800100214 for the audit of the implementation of the emergency medical care activity for the period from 1 January 2010 to 30 June 2014. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the Health Commission and was available in the Library of the National Assembly. As regards the final audit report No 0400100817 for the financial audit carried out on the Annual Financial Statement of the Financial Supervision Commission for 2016 and the audit opinion of the Court of Auditors in the National Assembly, the following were received: 1. Letter from the Court of Auditors to the Financial Supervision Commission of their own. No 09-04-4 of 6 June 2017; Audit Report No 0400100817 and Audit Opinion for validation of the Annual Financial Statement of the Financial Supervision Commission for 2016. 2. Approved without reservations by the Court of Auditors, Annual Financial Statement of the Financial Supervision Commission for 2016, part of which is the Report on the implementation of the Financial Supervision Commission's budget for 2016. By letter of the President of the National Assembly the materials were sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria Deputy Prime Minister for Internal Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the dispatch of a military ship with his state arms and crew to conduct joint preparation in the composition of the Permanent Anti-mining Group of NATO No 2 between 27 October and 6 December 2017. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria the competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 9 June 2017. No 703-09-14 and submitted to the Defence Committee. The National Statistical Institute received information on gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2017; labour productivity; employed persons and time spent on the first quarter of 2017; turnover indexes in Section "Retail Trade" without the trade in cars and motorcycles in April 2017; industrial production indexes in April 2017 and construction production indexes in April 2017. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 13 June 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 13 June 2017 to 25 June 2017 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 13 June 2017 to 25 June 2017 (OJ L 55, 19.2.2017, p. 1). No 703-16-4 was received by the National Assembly for official use on State aid expenditure for 2016. The information was received by the Minister of Finance in implementation of art. 5 and 6 of Commission Regulation No 794/2004 and on the basis of art. 6, para. 3 of the State Aid Act. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and was available to the Members of the National Assembly. We move on to the first item of the adopted agenda: FIRST READING THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE MOVE LAW IN THE ROADS. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am making procedure for admission to the plenary of Stefan Balabanov, Deputy Minister of Interior, and Boyko Ranovski, Head of the Department of Road Police.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u3	Please vote on the procedural proposal made. Vote 197 MPs: for 197, against and abstention there is no. It's accepted unanimously. Invite the persons to the plenary. The report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications will introduce us to the President of the Commission Mr. Halil Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Road Traffic Act No 754-01-17 submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 2 June 2017. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 7 June 2017, a Draft Law amending the Road Traffic Act was discussed, No 754-01-17, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 2 June 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, and Commissioner Boyko Ranovski, Head of the Road Police Department at the Directorate General of National Police. The bill was presented by the MP Stanislav Ivanov, who said that the main purpose of the proposed changes is to achieve a preventive and deterrent effect on all drivers of motor vehicles involved in the movement in respect of compliance with speed limits. In this direction is the dropping of t. 8 of Article 165, para. 2 which in turn leads to the removal of a road sign E24 in cases where control is carried out with automated technical means or systems. According to importers, when drivers are notified by placing a sign in front of a police car equipped with automatic technical equipment or systems, they reduce speed only in the sign area and then continue their speeding movement. Thus, the educational effect on all drivers of motor vehicles is lost, thereby developing a sense of impunity. It was also noted that, in recent years, the main reason for serious traffic accidents with victims and killed, according to the statistics of the Ministry of Interior, is the movement with inadequate or speeding. The amendment of another provision of the Law provides that, in the performance of its functions, the services designated by the Minister of Interior are entitled to carry out controls on the compliance of road traffic rules with vehicles equipped with audio recording and video recording means, with the control being carried out only within the scope of the means of video recording. A heavier measure is proposed for owners whose cars are operated by persons who do not hold a driving licence to drive one that is not their own. The proposal in this direction relates to the termination of the registration of the owner's road vehicle whose motor vehicle is operated by a person not holding the driving licence concerned for a period of 6 months to one year. During the debates on the bill, the members of the committee agreed on the need for such amendments. Following the debates held on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment to the Road Traffic Act, No 754-01-17, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 2 June 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. There is a report from the Internal Security and Public Order Committee that will introduce us to Mrs. Diana Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u6	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Road Traffic Act No 754-01-17 submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 2 June 2017. At its regular meeting on 7 June 2017, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 754-01-17, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 2 June 2017. The meeting was attended by Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Tsvetan Tsvetanov. In his statement he noted that the main objective of the bill is to meet public expectations for limiting road accidents. The aim of the bill is also to achieve a preventive effect on drivers of motor vehicles involved in the movement with respect to speed limits. In this direction is the dropping of t. Art. 8 165, para. 2 which results in the removal of a road sign E24 in cases where control is carried out with automated technical means or systems. The setting of warning signs does not have a deterrent effect because they reduce speed only in the area of the sign and then increase speed sharply. It is apparent from the analysis of the data in recent years that the main cause of severe crashes with victims and killed is the uncoordinated or speeding movement. Another change in the Law provides that when performing their functions, the services designated by the Minister of Interior are entitled to exercise control over road traffic rules with vehicles equipped with audio recording and video recording means, subject to an explicit condition that this is carried out only within the scope of the video recording. A heavier measure is also available for owners whose cars are operated by persons who do not own a driving licence. The proposal in this direction relates to the termination of the registration of the owner's road vehicle whose motor vehicle is operated by a person not holding a driving licence for a period of six months to one year. According to the SVR and the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior since the entry into force of the last amendments to the law of 21 January 2017 9040 drivers were established without a corresponding driving licence and the owners were only 915....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov expressed support for the submitted bill. Members of the National Assembly Ivan Ivanov, Georgi Andreev and Dimitar Stoyanov took part in the debates. People's representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov expressed his opinion that this bill is an important step in implementing enhanced prevention and control in order to reduce violations and victims of the road and unite the political will of all parliamentary groups. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 16 votes,.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. I'm opening the debate. On behalf of the importers Mr. Pavel Hristov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With this proposal to amend the Road Traffic Act, we aim to address several major problems concerning a number of situations among all road users, namely the creation of conditions for prevention and reduction of victims and victims due to high, exceeding and inadequate speed. In the first part of the bill we propose removing a road sign E 24, which is placed when control is carried out with automated technical tools or systems. At present, the setting of this sign makes no sense to prevent the actions of technical means, as drivers reduce the speed in the area or within the range of the sign and then increase speed sharply. In recent years, statistics have clearly indicated that all accidents involving victims or victims are precisely due to inadequate or speeding. The next change that we propose is related to a provision in the Law where it is envisaged that, in the performance of its functions, designated by the Minister of Interior, they are entitled to carry out controls on the compliance of road traffic rules with vehicles equipped with audio and video recordings, and that the controls will only be carried out within the scope of the means of vydosidesnaping. Last but not least, we propose a change in sanctions concerning owners who have granted driving vehicles with missing driving licences. To date, for the first five months of the year, statistics show that we have over 9000 cases of drivers established without a driving licence, and in only less than 10% of cases the driver is also the owner of a vehicle. In the district of Varna, where I am elected MP, for the first five months there are 160 cases, there are not 19% of them when the owner and the driver are the same person. This clearly shows us that the penalty should be increased for owners who have provided their cars to unfit drivers. It is for this purpose that we propose that the penalty be to suspend the registration of vehicles for a period of six months to one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are currently looking at changes to the Road Traffic Act. It has become clear that their aim is a preventive effect on drivers and affects mainly two cases: removal of signs in front of cameras or the so-called road sign E 24s in cases where controls are carried out with automated technical means and heavier measures for car owners, which are managed by a driver without a driving licence or the vehicle is not owned by the disabled driver. The question that arises is as follows: do these changes solve all the problems of drivers on the roads, whether Republican or municipal? The answer is no! A change in a package of laws is needed, and I will list them: Criminal Code of Procedure - Strengthening measures for procedural coercion, Criminal Code - More curtsy measures for offenders who have caused bodily harm, for repeaters on the road, and if you will for wholesale hooliganism on the road. The transitional and final provisions of the Law may be supplemented by art. 58 of the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishment and to remove the requirement that the administrative-punishing authority search the last of the intruder's addresses when the latter is not found at its permanent address. So these are just partial changes. The importers acknowledged to the Commission that the changes are not complete, are not perfect, that there is still much work under the Law, and even in the future there will be a completely new Law on Road Traffic or a division of this Law into two or three parts. Despite these imperfections, they called on us to support him. You know, this kind of looks like something we played a week ago. With the same arguments that are now convincing us to accept the amendments to the Law, the Sign Language Act was rejected. Then the arguments were one to one: it is not comprehensive enough, there is something to be mastered, there were gaps, that is, anything that can be supplemented between first and second readings. How do we vote from BSP? Just because we are opposition, we should vote against the proposed changes, even though they are incomplete and imperfect, but are they in the right direction? In the Commission, we supported the Law, that is, the amendments to the Law, and we will support them in this House. However, our appeal to the majority is in the future when we import something from the opposition, please do not press the red button first, directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Tashev. - What's the line? I won't. Other speeches please, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We also supported the proposed amendments to the Law on Road Traffic in the Committees. We then had a serious debate in the meeting of the parliamentary group and in the leadership of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, and we note that there are a lot of disagreements on these texts, not of their well-meaning nature, but of that does it solve all the problems that we have set for ourselves to reduce victims and victims of road accidents. No, he doesn't. When we heard the leadership and representatives of the Ministry of Interior in the Commission, they gave statistics saying that there is a tendency across Europe to increase victims on the road. Yes, Bulgaria ranks first in victims of accidents and injuries. It's a sad statistic. The fact is that since 2009, when there has been traffic control on the roads without cameras, in fact the victims were about 1300 per year. The point is, there is no permanent prevention. The question is are we going to return old or bad practices to the roads. These are questions that concern the public. The more important issue is whether we will be able to solve the general problem, namely that we are leading the crash victim ranking. The more important question is what happens to prevention, which we do not exercise in schools with regulations, orders and regulations in the Ministry of Education and Science. In fact, there is an order that solves this issue by stating that road safety is studied within 24 hours a year, which would mean a month and a half an hour, which is reduced to 15 minutes in the classroom. Then there is an explicit regulation, if I am not mistaken, is No 13, with Annex No 5 in it, which is made from a special distribution of training hours for safe road traffic in the classes, and, if I am not mistaken, in the first grade it is 16 hours, from second to fourth is 8 hours, from fifth to eighth is 6 hours, which would say that the internal legislation itself or the legal framework in the Ministry of Education and Science itself contradicts. We lack the prevention of training our children, we do not create from them the normal raised transport culture, we do not create the habits with which they protect themselves and then become drivers after a time to be adequate on the road, to be careful for both themselves and for their loved ones, but also for all participants in the movement. A study that experts quoted as saying that in the students when they were placed on a pedestrian path, in 10 students, 9 of them first looked to the right, and only one to the left. This means that the prevention itself, which takes place in schools, is not enough. We talk about increasing the hours, the courses that we drive, and at the same time reducing them at the time when we have to train our children or future road users. There's a lot of questions to ask. We will abstain not because we do not want to happen, the statistics to be better or translated into Bulgarian to save human lives, but we will abstain, because with these changes we do not really solve any major problem that we are leading in the road victims ranking, that we do not actually have good training for our children in educational institutions, and the effect is that we remain with the doubt that in the end the purpose of these changes is to fill the cash register of government, and not so much to solve the issues that people have put to us. That is why we will abstain and hope that in the next few months we will really take a responsible approach, to look at this prevention in its entirety not only in relation to the Road Traffic Act, but also in the training of safe road traffic.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u13	This is not the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u14	Of course, but it's the MPs' job to monitor this process. We have a claim that we solve people's problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Have you noticed how often, here in Parliament, good ideas and practices are rejected just to please someone? We are talking about preventing war on the road, and really with this change we will do the opposite. The upcoming attempt to remove the signs indicating the presence of radars along the road. 165, para. 2, p. 7 and 8 of the Road Traffic Act is just such an example. Who interferes with these signs, and what good is it if they're not there? We're talking about the victims on the road and we're wondering how to reduce the number, and we're forgetting the pretty foreigner. With the removal of the signs, we will not change anything for the better, we will destroy a wonderful preventive measure. On the one hand, the intruders will drive at whatever speed they want, and that will not slow down, only increase the risk of accidents. Yes, there will be more fines, and so what, gentlemen of importers, by closing one loophole and opening another? Why don't you leave the signs? You say that Bulgaria is the first victim on the road and we return to years where police will hide on the bushes. What's stopping the signs? A resource has already been thrown for them, why throw a new resource to be removed? Why not concentrate this resource in the direction of collecting unpaid fines, for example? We at the Volja. We are convinced that radar warning signs are a good measure that will only force drivers to drive more carefully. Our proposal art. 165, para. 2, p. 8 to remain in the Law with the following text: The road section on which it is possible to control compliance with traffic rules through automated technical means or systems, but not necessarily any section on which such control takes place. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. Your request for a proposal between first and second reading means that the Law cannot pass at one reading. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable fellow importers! I expected you to do the line because you're the importers. As MPs, let us view road safety as a common cause. Dear colleagues, there is a Road Traffic Act, which every Bulgarian driver has read, studied, took an exam and knows where to observe it. There are road signs that say when, where, and how, at what speed it should be driven. The proposed changes currently do not say that we remove the warning signs, on the contrary, they say that the DMV authorities can control even if there are no such signs. That is, I am giving you an example: a share of the Ministry of the Interior for Drug Verification in a particular establishment, you mean in this way that the day before should be announced that a check will be carried out at the establishment the next day? That's what you're saying about prevention against drugs, for example. Here we are talking about compliance with the Road Traffic Act, where there is a speed limit sign, each driver knows that he must reduce to this limit and perform it as far as it is staked with the passport on the road, with the documentation of the road. So this is not about limiting driver's rights or hiding DMV employees in the bushes at all. We're talking about technical filming and people, which means the employees who do it won't have the right to go out, stop you, ask you what you do, where you work, where you go and why you hurry. That is, we give the control authorities freedom to carry out the controls as they see fit, to comply with the Road Traffic Act. If there is abuse, if there is corruption, there you already know: screening by DANS, 20 people arrested, then 19 released, but this is the subject of another conversation and is not the subject of this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Second line - the People's Representative Paul Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Georgieva, I cannot agree that the aim of the bill is to fill a register or to play such topics, and especially when we talk about victims and victims on the roads, it is not serious. We're both from the same town and traveling the same way, and there are-there are not seven places where this sign has a preventative effect or this sign is 24. In all other places, all the leaders drive like mad. That's the truth, and we've both seen it the same way. By removing the signs, we say to the drivers of motor vehicles: The call is this, the restrictions are these.. respect them everywhere, not only in the seven places Varna-Sofia. Or if we use other roads and other geographical concepts. So I can't agree with what you said. And I'm very pleased with the line that my colleague Svilenski made for you. This shows that we are in the right direction because the government and opposition are obviously looking at the same direction, namely to reduce the victims on the road. So I'm going to ask you to say all these things in the parliamentary group. All those things that you pointed out in the Chamber, your representative in the Commission put them up, discussed and discussed, and he, if I remember correctly, also supported the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Third line, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Allow me to express my disagreement with Mrs. Georgieva. I would just like to say from this tribune that the law is imperative and acts in the territory of the whole country in respect of all citizens in the country, and is not only the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, but also for those who are transiting through it. The fact that the law is imperative means that the form is ordered and we are obliged to perform it, whether there is a sign or not. Since you are very embarrassed by the fact that the signs will be removed and thus the preventive action will be removed, I would advise you to read the entire Penal Code, where there are enough other crimes described. Have you ever met a sign somewhere: The murder is forbidden! There's no such thing! The second thing I would like to draw your attention to is that in conversations with competent authorities, I talk to the police, all of them comment that one tolerance has been allowed when setting these devices, that is to say they do not detect the absolute speed at which the car is moving, but give 10 km in the settlement and up to 20 km away from the settlement. So even the control body thought in that direction. I'm gonna have to ask you to reconsider your decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. A hole? Here you go, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I'm not jumping against being or not removing the signs. Here it is that in Bulgaria a very large part of the laws are made so that they are violated. The important thing in this case is that we must exercise traffic control. The goal is to reduce the war on the road, right? Is that the solution?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u25	That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u26	That's the solution, according to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u27	One of the solutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u28	One of the solutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u29	Please don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u30	The goal is to have control, and that's the most important thing. Maybe that's where this resource should be directed. Or double the signs! You yourself said that from Varna to Sofia there are seven or eight points, and people decline only in these places. So it has to be anywhere where there's a speed limit, not just at these seven or eight places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u31	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. [[Replications of MP Boryana Georgieva with MPs from DPS.]] To speak, the public representative Veselin Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We understand that there is a huge consensus between the government of GERB and the opposition from BSP. I assume that with the same unanimity before the presence of our group in the Chamber, you have also adopted this law, which is now and on the basis of such unanimity. Firstly, Bulgaria is the most corrupt country in Europe, secondly, is the poorest country in Europe, and as you yourself said, we have the most deaths from accidents on the road linked to high speed, drugs and alcohol. So I would ask you not only to seek unanimity in impractical things, but to unite ourselves around creating working mechanisms. Because speed is one of the things. However, I live in the city of Varna and even before I go out on the road to Sofia and face these seven points, I enter 20 holes that are not marked in any way with any signs, and they lead to no less catastrophes, deaths and the crushing of human destinies and life. Let's see our mayors too, because we still don't have, whether they comply with their laws, whether they have secured the roads even before we take the long-distance road, and then make such cosmetic changes. If you have noticed that the sign reduces the speed within its range, but very quickly then does not work. In my opinion, the logical solution is to put more often signs, not remove them. So let's not make rash decisions. If we have to sit down, let's rethink this and make a decision that really works to reduce the casualties along the way. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. A line? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Mareshki, I'm sorry that today I only do lines of your group, even though you are very sympathetic to me as colleagues. [[Laughter at GERB.]] Let me just tell you about the unanimity. This amendment has been proposed two or three times in previous parliaments in forty-two and forty-three. The BSP Parliamentary Group and the Transport Commission colleagues in all formats are both about not having such signs. Here, colleagues from GERB, and it is not all right to be correct, Mr. Ivanov then did not support the placement of these signs, we were about not having such signs, but the majority then decided that there should be this in my speech then I will find it, so you will see that it was not unanimously accepted to have such warning signs in front of the cameras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Second line.. People's representative Pavel Hristov, third " Nelly Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Colleague Mareshki, as the debates began, will be impressed in Bulgarian citizens that we start with the angle grinder to cut all signs and signs along the Bulgarian roads. Let's put the debate back where it belongs. We are commenting on a single sign, namely the blue and white sign with a picture of a camera that warns the drivers that someone is filming them. All along each time signs act, rules act, speed limits are in place, which each driver is obliged to observe. We can't put a second sign on every sign to indicate that there's a next sign. This is insane! You said yourself that we are a poor country, that means that we do not need to spend money on more signs and signs, provided that there are plenty on our roads. In fact, we need to go in a completely different direction, not put a sign after a sign that has no effect at all. So this is just a sign. We don't remove any speed limit signs or no speed limit signs. We remove only sign E 24, which says control is imminent, where there is an automatic technical device or, rudely speaking, a speeding camera. So let's talk about things the way they are and bring the debate back to where it belongs, neither mayors nor educational systems, nor a number of other things we are discussing right now. Yes, and they need to be discussed securely, this is coming at a later stage when other laws relating to the subject begin to be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Third line.. People's representative Nelly Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Mareshki, I want to ask you and tell you that it is good that you are flying by plane lately because it is a public secret on TV screens how you say that in 3 hours you are traveling from Varna to Sofia and back. For me, this is a common traffic law. You are just a potential intruder in our country, so I really advise you to rethink your vote, because it is you, your group and you, in your capacity as their supervisor, who are quite often publicly saying that for a time that I cannot think of in a normal way with respect to the speed limits you are to arrive at the National Assembly. So really reconsider your decision. I think it doesn't matter who's from which group and who's from which party, we all have to be united and fight exactly to reduce victims on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u39	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. Mr. Mareshki, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First, to Mr. Hristov. So now that this amendment is going to pass, it's going to be a few years, and I'm sure you'll note that it has absolutely no effect on this amendment. That's what I meant: not to make repairs, but to really think about things that work and have an effect to reduce mortality. To the colleague from Varna, I'm sorry. I've seen her a few times at the airport, but that's exactly why we're going to support the majority elections so that we can know who's coming into parliament. [[Laughs and laughs.]] Look, I'm sorry that you're moving so slowly, but obviously you're thinking slowly, so you don't understand what I'm saying... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u41	Please, no personal insults!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u42	...so I'm going to ask you to focus a little on self-study so that we can be more effective and really useful for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u43	To speak, the MP Iskren Veselinov and after him, Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u44	Dear colleagues, this debate, which we have been to in the Forty-third National Assembly, we have already listened to. So there's always about one star that takes over the protection of intruder drivers, so let's put it this way, glamours in this way and probably feels satisfied if the amendment of the Law is a failed thing which, by the way, in the previous National Assembly, really happened. The truth is that putting a sign before the control body is like saying that the tax law is respected only in tax administrations, and violations outside tax administrations can be done calmly, and tax authorities are not allowed to control them. Somehow ridiculous sounds the attempt to justify itself with corrupt practices and any variety of arguments of this kind the simple principle and verification can be in any place, and really control to be in any place. In the previous term, there was also a lot of talk, when there were much more extensive changes, among other things, in the Road Traffic Act: it is important to have prevention, that it is important to check the sign farm, that there should really be an opportunity for drivers to observe, to limit the minimum and that this minimum to ensure the safety of all road users, and all to observe it, and ultimately to have discipline on the road. However, these theoretical conversations can be held very long, and the principle that we will not change anything until we change everything is wrong. So I guess this stuff is going to change the idea of an idea, and it's going to build on things that aren't bad at all. For this reason, once again, I say that we, from the United Patriarchs, will support this bill. It does not solve radical problems, but solves one or two problems, but they are important enough to pay attention to them.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u45	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement there is the national representative Tasco Ermenkov. After him, Nikolay Alexandrov and after him Ivan Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are gathered in this Chamber to pass laws, but not to pass laws and then to wait for someone to carry them out. If we in this Chamber today have a dialogue and we make suggestions that these laws should only be observed where they can catch you and warn people that where they can catch you, only there you must obey the law, otherwise you might not have followed it! This does not suit us as lawmakers, nor does it suit us as people we are called to establish some order, to lay down some rules in the state! Back when the signs were introduced, they were introduced because the police cars didn't have a chance to shoot, they didn't have cameras inside, the police were sitting with radars, some of them abused it, they were hiding in the bushes and popping up as a way of extra income. Now the police cars are equipped with equipment. The fact that we're being filmed because we've broken speed doesn't increase the corruption pressure. Because they don't have any contact with us, they don't have any fairy tales, and they just send these pictures back in order and we get our punishment! The law has a universal right, the law has universal obligations to fulfill. The law does not have an additional requirement to warn people that they should observe it here in particular, and there in particular they can pass between the drops. I therefore strongly ask you: let us put an end to this dispute, which does not honor us as MPs. Let us not suggest to the people of Bulgaria that the laws are respected only when they can catch you, and otherwise you can do whatever you want! And I call on you: let us support this change! It does not solve all the problems of traffic safety, but solves a problem that can ultimately raise us to become law-abiding and respectable and law-abiding in the country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Ermenkov, I will take advantage of my right to a reply to explain exactly what Mr. Ermenkov just mentioned...................what are we here for? We are here to please an interpretive decision of a judge, which, in my opinion, and according to my fellow lawyers, I am not a lawyer myself, has wrongly invoked a member of this article. 165, para. 2, p. Seven, so there's a road sign before each camera. In this Article, this paragraph and this point are the cameras that are in the cars and they must be marked. These are the cameras that film police officers not taking advantage of uncontrolled practices when controlling traffic on the road. But in this interpretive decision, this judge felt that it was about all the cameras on the road. Hence the conclusion that there must be signs before all cameras. We change this thing, we take into account this interpretation decision, of course, we change it. I think it's the right thing to do. I myself, as Mr Svilenski said, in response to Mr Mareshki's speech, was against putting these signs in the previous National Assembly to be accepted this change and I did not vote then. So let's not put everyone under one common denominator, we had an opinion then, but the majority accepted another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u49	Thank you. Are there any other lines? Are you going to use a hole? No. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov. You have the floor to speak, and after it there is the national representative Ivan Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that, with the last two colleagues, we think in the same way, and with the majority of the House, on the proposed changes. The first is that the implementation of prevention by removing a single sign cannot be put on the agenda for the simple reason that the National Assembly cannot afford to make laws that apply only in certain sections, i.e. only in some exceptions. One law should apply to all. Although I hate to say it, the Road Traffic Act may be one of the most violated by Bulgarian citizens. It is easy enough and simple enough to stand at a big intersection in a city to find out how many violations can be committed within five minutes. As legislators, as people who are called to sit in this Chamber and to be an emancipation of the nation, we must give such a direction to the laws to be respected. We cannot make speeches to call for: you see, if you remove 14 road signs that represent 7 sections of blue signs, you will thus reduce prevention. On the contrary, colleagues. There's another approach. It is much easier, for example, if we want to keep the signs, to be at the beginning and at the end of each time, i.e. at both ends of the road, to put a small white sign on the bottom of each blue sign that says:. The introduction of this, although not so perfect, amendment to the plenary, at least my experience shows that the Bulgarian is brilliant enough to find the surroundings of any amendment that we accept, but even so, is a step in the right direction. There is no normal state perhaps in the world where citizens are allowed free to kill each other on the streets, and, you see, in parliament to argue whether 7 or 14 leva. for a plate are a large cost to the state and whether they represent prevention. I will also ask my colleagues, when making such speeches, to consider that, apart from the piano that is asked them, this approach that they are given, the piano has something more that is above all of us, regardless of the colors of the political parties "human life." These are topics on which, as politicians, we cannot stand, with our hand on the heart, and talk naked talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u51	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? Mr. Donchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Perhaps what I am about to say will not be an exact line, but I think that a little misinterpreted or perhaps not quite correctly formulated the statement of our colleague from Volja. We of the Will do not oppose the removal of the signs, as we are not for their stay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u53	So, what are you guys up for? [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u54	Let's assume that there is another possibility that the leaving of the signs or their removal should not be mandatory, because we have all admitted that the signs still have some preventative effect. So if there are such signs that remind in places, and where there are no cameras, people should be careful and know that they can be photographed, we think that this would also have a preventative and good effect on road traffic. I would even say that in our group we have ideas that go even a little more extremely than the removal of the signs itself. I believe it will lead to a more substantial reduction in the level of road accidents, especially heavy ones. I hope that between first and second readings we will be able to bring in these ideas that will be approved by other groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u55	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Mr. Lazarov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague, since the debate on the submitted bill has opened up quite a bit, you have rightly said yes, we should focus on prevention, perhaps you missed the fact that the Law on Road Traffic has been changed many times, but according to our Rules the proposals between first and second readings can only be in the principles and scope of this Law. There cannot be a bill tabled which, at first reading, has two or three texts and concerns the removal of the signs that there will be control, photographing, suddenly a second vote will have quite, quite other texts concerning quite other relations regulated in the Road Traffic Act. It's clearly in the Rules of Procedure. This is a practice, by the way, which also came last year on a submitted Draft Law amending the Road Traffic Act. It has grown with many, many, many other proposals, but outside the principles and scope of the even submitted pό last year bill. That's what you missed and I'd like to pay attention to you, to keep in mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u57	Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Alexandrov, come on in, although I don't know what kind of backdrop you're gonna do to all this.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My dot is this. If there is any procedure, even Mr. Donchev can't see where he's sitting right now, if he can explain exactly what he meant, because in the physical world of me I know two situations or something is there, or something is not there, but the average option I don't know exists. [[Single applause and laughter by GERB.]] That's why I purposely mention you by roll call if you can explain this thing to us. The other one. Colleague Lazarov is right between first and second readings can be made changes, but these changes are what are in the principle of the initial text. It's part of the rules. The other to clarify perhaps about prevention. The threat of prevention should not exist in places where there is a signpost for one simple reason. Prevention means deterring you from committing an action. I'm not a lawyer, I don't know if I'm as accurate as possible, but prohibiting you from committing an act under the threat of a sanction. And when you are mentioned only in places where you can tolerate such a penalty where there is such observation, you do it only there, respectively. In other places you allow yourself pό free conduct, which is also prohibited by the Law. The elimination of these signs, or if you like, let's just leave them, we'll just shut them down somehow so they can't be seen, so they can sit down, it wouldn't break prevention, even on the contrary. Because the moment you leave the road and go on a road, for example, with a limit of 80 km per hour or 140 per highway road, then you fall under penalty, if you violate those 140 km per hour, to be fined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u59	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. The only way Mr. Donchev can explain is by making a statement, since I will not give a personal explanation to the replica and the duplicate. The point of the line is to be able to ask you a question. But if he wants to fall into the field of quantum physics Mr. Donchev and explain how he has a third condition, except that something is there or is not there, he can only make a statement. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today, only colleagues who have not supported this Law come to the stand two years ago. Could colleagues who supported it come out and make their arguments: why two years ago was supported to place signs, put the state at some expense to place them, and now we have to put it into cost again to remove them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u61	That was a statement. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Atalay, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I do not know whether to state a conflict of interest, because we all have driver's licenses.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u63	Everyone has to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u64	If we are involved in the adoption of the Road Traffic Act and we have a driving licence, then we have a conflict of interest. In the circle of the joke, one more thing. Colleague, those we have supported not only in the previous parliament, and before that, we are already on the stand. Even before, and now I understand the nostalgia of BSP to support the removal of the signs, because hiding in the woods and in the bushes I understand it from them, but from GERB I could not understand... [[Radio and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u65	You're very witty.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u66	Please, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u67	But GERB did not understand why they insisted in the previous parliament. Prevention of the Road Traffic Act is the most serious part. Penalty and non-compliance with the Law is the second part of this Law. It's the same for every law, coworkers. I wonder why GERB so hastily introduce an amendment and supplement to a Law that must be changed thoroughly. Where's the impact assessment? Where's the public debate? What are we doing, guys? When and on which television, and which NGOs have come and told us what the impact of this Law is, removing a reference sign, a reference sign? I'll tell you. Your motive to reduce victims, to make us regret and with emotions to adopt an amendment to a law is also not correct, colleagues. You will neither increase nor reduce the victims on the roads by removing the E24 plate. And here I am proposing to you right now, at the second reading, art. 162, para. 1 drop out of this Law. Are you making sure that you want to accept it today and at second reading? Dear colleagues, I assume there are some other ideas in removing this plate. What prevents the sign if the driver who controls the motor vehicle sees the sign decrease and then increases? Your second motive. Well, that's what we do with stationary cameras, folks. Then remove the stationary cameras. It's not serious, guys. It's very light, because if we don't make the Road Traffic Act so that it creates safe conditions for traffic on the roads, if we don't make the control body feel like the one who can control it without any danger of its own, because you'll see how many cars will be hidden in the bushes now, how secretly we'll be photographed. Your idea, colleagues, in my opinion, looking at all this, is as if you want to increase the proceeds in that fund and then you will probably want to spend that money in some way. There is nothing else in the amendment of this Law. Preemptive activity you remove, penal activity you introduce. I'm not gonna say the party's hiding in the bushes. You have no assessment of the impact of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u68	How can we not? There is. It's attached.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u69	You have no debate in society... Colleague, you have the opportunity to step out of the stands afterwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u70	Please don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u71	In fact, I'm going to stop speaking so I can give you an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u72	Please don't enter the dialogue with the House and don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, if we continue in this way: every law at the beginning and at the end of the National Assembly, when some Members are not yet in class, to propose certain In the rest, even right now, I hear you're blaming some judge who wasn't in class and didn't understand what was going on. Dear colleagues, the court cannot tolerate any comments. The judge who made that decision must have had arguments. Let's get back to the law. You're not going to reduce the casualties. You're not going to reduce those drivers who will slow down when there's a camera, and then increase. Focus on safe conditions and comfortable traffic conditions. Fix the roads, create overpasses, underpasses for crossing pedestrians, create conditions and changes in the laws so there is no sign that determines to drive at 60 km and after 100 m to have a sign for 90 km, and after 50 m to have a sign of movement at 50 km per hour. This Law, my colleagues, today is useless. This Law is premature. This Law does not decide public relations. This Law decides what you should tell us. The movement for rights and freedoms will refrain from supporting this Law in this form. And I suggest once again that you drop out in art. 165 per para. 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u74	This can happen between first and second readings. In the name of correctness: a preliminary impact assessment has been applied to the Bill. I don't know if you don't have this in the file kit, but there's an evaluation. In addition, colleagues from the "Volja" also expressed a desire to make proposals between first and second readings, so this concern that we will move on to two readings in one sitting cannot happen. The topic was discussed at the Chairman's Council, the groups expressed a desire for a proposal and it was decided there that today the draft of two readings will not be considered. This anxiety could be over. Don't worry. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have always respected the sense of humor, but when this tribune makes a mockery of certain procedures, such as conflict of interest, I would turn to Mr. Atalay to tell him that when we talk about energy and renewable energy, and when I called out of this tribune to declare conflict of interest, he was silent.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u76	There's no connection, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u77	As for the Bill itself and what you say, here and before me, colleagues who have expressed their opinion, there is nothing wrong with having hidden cameras. On the contrary, I think it will further discipline all the leaders, not just where they know they can take pictures. When we talk about conflict of interest, if one of us here protects the former form, in which when you stop and start: "What do you do for a living? And you are in the National Assembly, well, go on!..... this is a conflict of interest... when we defend the opposite thesis of the one we now advocate in the Law. It doesn't matter what you do, if you're an intruder, then they follow fines and sanctions, and not in the old form, who has some kind of police card, either from another office, or from the Council of Ministers, the judiciary doesn't pay the fines. What you are promoting right now is indeed a conflict of interest for those who have books and do not want to be photographed but want to get out of this form of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u78	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Mr. Lazarov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Atalay, the debate has started in a plane of prevention. Everyone's talking about special prevention and almost nobody's talking about general prevention, or maybe it's mentioned somewhere. Mr. Atalay, this sign you're talking about doesn't give you the right to drive one way or another. The speed limit is defined either in the Law Every Bulgarian leader is obliged to respect it. These signs were placed in the Law, changed the previous year following an interpretive decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, which said they could not accept as evidence the filmed in the event of speeding with cameras. And then get the penalty through a ticket. This is what the Supreme Administrative Court's ruling says, which is why the Law has been amended to enable this sanction by means of a ticket. I'm sorry, but if all the other unmarked sections of the road, if a traffic accident occurs and through expertise you are found to have exceeded speed due to the fact that you have caused significant property damage or moderate bodily injury, the case goes to court, that does not mean that you will not be sanctioned for managing in excess of speed. This amendment, as this question was put forward, was in response to this interpretive decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, which was also on the occasion of something else, the difference between finding speeding with a camera and fine with a ticket and when you are found in the previous traditional way, it is no longer practiced, with radar in place to make you an act, then to make you a criminal order. This has treated the decision, but now we are only talking about finding excess cameras and fine by ticket.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Atalay, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I understand from the lines: if we remove all the signs, then the pictures taken with cameras will pass in court. Something very serious! And as far as this Law, fellow Members, once again I say to you: I suggest that we make a serious discussion of the Law on Road Traffic and in this Law that we make the society satisfied and that the institutions that will be responsible for the implementation of the Law fulfil their obligations. And as far as the conflict of interest is concerned, for eight years I have been investigated by collaborators, I have two documents from the Committee on Conflict of Interest that I do not have a conflict of interest in the Commission. Go on, GERB, write more supplies! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u82	Thank you. Any other speeches? [[National Representative Nina Mitkova wants the floor.]] I'm afraid this is the second time you want to speak, which is not possible according to our Rules. If you want another procedure, but for more speech, there is no way I can give you the floor. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. [[Noise and lines. National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov wants the floor.]] Please, a little more energetic to state your wishes for speeches. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u83	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleagues, the debate we are having today is very important and very meaningful, because each one of us has been informed that every year by 2009, the road victims were about 1,000 people. And when colleagues come out to talk on this subject, I would recommend that they get acquainted with the European Parliament's resolution on road safety 2011-2020. There you will read absolutely everything we have in mind in all these measures that are being taken, whether it be legislative, by Parliament, regulations relating to legislation that also improves this coordination and interaction. When we talk about road safety, we must nevertheless bear in mind that by 2009, in the countries of the European Union, there were 35,000 people who died on Europe's roads. The wounded on Europe's roads are 1 million and 500,000 public damage, which is for the European Union, is equal to 1 billion. And 300 million. Euros. Take your own account of whether measures should not actually be taken that can improve this road safety. It is extremely inappropriate for a parliamentary group chairman to accuse colleague Nelly Petrova of her speech and the way she expressed her opinion. Because unlike this chairman, I can say that Nelly Petrova was part of this particular cause to reduce road mortality because she lost her daughter. Right on a crosswalk in Varna! And she was fighting the justice system! And thanks to the legislative changes initiated by the non-governmental sector in the Forty-first Parliament, we have made legislative changes so that the agreement that was actually reached between the person who committed the road accident and the prosecution could be abolished so that the victims or relatives of the victims could participate in this trial. And you know what kind of debate was held in the forty-first parliament. Then we were even accused by some parliamentary groups that we were looking for a political dividend from fate and the hard experiences that these relatives and relatives had but no! We have strived only to be able to really meet people's expectations, to make maximum efforts to engage all institutions to work actively to reduce road mortality. I just want to say that for the period 2009-2012, the saved lives are based on data that are from the reports that come out for all these periods, around 1180 people. Because, you know, the victims on the road, 2011-2012, reached 600. When you do the math, in the previous years there were about 1,000. The problem is that the trend began to recover again to increase the victims on the roads and the last two years we have 708 dead. The wounded also do not decrease, but increase, which means that we have a major problem. As for fines and everything that's connected to the cameras, I think there's a lot of speculative behavior here and a way to suggest that the state wants to raise some money. No! You all know that 2010, when we were looking at these legislative changes, it came to a political consensus and we voted right in Parliament the bill that was tabled, 50% of the fines to go to the Road Safety Fund. Unfortunately, this Road Safety Fund in recent years cannot play an essential role because, when the calendar year is over, you know that these funds do not remain as a transitional balance, and they simply reset the account, which means that funds are being raised again, but the serious projects prepared by the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Transport cannot be realized. I believe that here we need to restart this Fund, so that the funds collected by the offenders, I repeat, by the intruders, are also invested in this preventive activity, which the colleagues from the Ministry of Interior said. This can only be done when we implement this integrated approach to change legislation. We all know that there is no perfect legislation. But we all know that in this very Regulation of the European Parliament, it is written that measures must be improved and that we should even look for regional projects to be implemented by neighbouring countries and can actually make legislation that should be uniform in order to be able to be implemented. And here I can say that our country is actively involved in the Salzburg Forum. You know, there are eight countries from the European Union and five countries from the Western Balkans. They are only present as guests when there is a Salzburg forum. It also discusses this particular topic of road safety, and it has been extremely up-to-date in recent years. For me, it is extremely important to know that when a government improves road infrastructure and is betting to build more highway sections, it means that we increase road safety. Because according to data from the European Parliament, this is precisely this regulation and the data they had as of 2009, the road mortality rate we are talking about is 55%, the urban traffic mortality rate is 36%, and the highway deaths are 6%. Take your own account of whether we should not actually support the government for efforts to improve road infrastructure, because there were political parties in these years that went out and said that asphalt is not eaten, and today everyone is talking about road safety and says that the holes must be fixed or the roads must be fixed. Ladies and gentlemen, on the left, we know that we will shortly have to look at a bill relating to social security, let us be realistic and pragmatic so that we can achieve the effect that we all want. And here I would especially like to thank all my colleagues from all the parliamentary groups who participated in the Internal Commission only a week ago, when this Bill was viewed and even the colleagues from BSP, from the DPS and from the Voljyah....................................the Bill at first reading in the Internal Commission, for which I thank them. Today, as President Glauchev said at the Presidential Council, we had talks on this topic and when we found that there will be debate and proposals between first and second readings, we will not make a proposal today to watch first and second reading in one sitting, because we believe that we really need to give the opportunity if there are colleagues who can give something reasonable, it should be accepted. But believe me, what's a problem for our country is that these cameras that are currently operating, or those that are mobile, are cameras that can't average the speed detected in a 100 km drive or 50 km drive. The problem in Bulgaria is that the mentality of the Bulgarian leader must be changed, but it must be changed not only with the MPs, but also with the executive power, with the non-governmental sector. Of course, in this activity, the main partner here must be the media, because through them we can introduce this preventiveness and events, which are actually measures that improve the safety of traffic on the roads of Bulgaria. Of course, there is much more to be said, but I think that today we are looking at measures that I am convinced will be adopted at second reading, perhaps after certain optimizations of the texts between first and second readings. I can say that the Council of Ministers has also taken measures. You know that there is a regulation which is in the power of the Council of Ministers, coordination procedures are in place between the relevant departments, so that the regulation can also be changed so that there can be integrity and what we talked about just now. Here I will say that there was a lot of disapproval from the humps that were built, or there was in a period five or six years ago. You know that at the time there were regulations that limited the possibility that local authorities could build such humps so as not to make it difficult for the movement of the urban environment, but you know that at the time the legislation, which, I think, was from 1989, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Interior made a general decision, was based on the initiative of the non-governmental sector and these were the blackened mothers, as is now Nelly Petrova from the parliamentary group of GERB. Colleagues, Nelly Petrova's presence in our parliamentary group is to give the non-governmental sector more opportunity to participate actively in the legislative activity. And when someone is mocking and talking about the majority system, I can say that Nelly Petrova has a much better public rating for her cause and for what she has done so far and will continue to do. [[Applause.]] Please, when we go out and talk in this way, let us treat each and every MP with respect, because he represents certain people, he represents a parliamentary group. Let us also the colleagues from Varna because we have seen here that there has been a serious debate, both by our group and by the people's representative Georgieva, there has been a serious clash of ideas, but give solutions, because the decisions must be adopted by the Bulgarian Parliament, and we have set ourselves a goal that needs to be met, and you know that under the Regulation of the European Commission and the European Parliament that 2020 the victims on the roads must be half the victims that have been 2010. That is why the measures we are taking are able to actually achieve these high goals and the victims on the roads to be around 380-388 in order to be able to achieve what people expect, and I hope that each of us will put our best efforts and with our personal example to give the right way of driving and the right way to comply with the Road Traffic Act. I thank you for this debate, because no one thought it would take nearly two hours. Thank you to all those who have spoken today have taken note. I hope that they will also be so active in the opportunity that they have between first and second readings to make legislative changes so that they can be discussed in the committee responsible for transport and we can enter the Chamber with texts that will be part of the measures that we are taking. Yes, in the months and years ahead, we will also make further changes if they lead to a reduction of road mortality, because I do not know if there are any people's representatives who can defend the reverse thesis. I would like to ask all my fellow Members who said that I would be able to say that this is a first reading that this is a very clear political sign of all parliamentary groups in the joint efforts of the state and of all MPs to reduce road mortality. Thank you to the position expressed by the representatives of the BSP because the representative of Mr. Mareshki as Chairman said that he did not like the fact that there was a bill under which GERB, the United Patriarchs and BSP would unite. Colleagues, any bill that is good for society, will be supported by the parliamentary group of GERB, whether it is submitted by BSP, by Volja. [[Applause from GERB.]] Because we believe that this is our duty and the way the Forty-fourth Parliament should work! Thank you, colleagues from BSP. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Three lines first, the public representative Dragomir Stoynev, then Mrs. Georgieva and finally Ramadan Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u85	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, the power of the BSP for Bulgaria is that we are consistent and I am glad that you are also going this way because in one year you have obviously experienced an internal catharsis [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria......................................................................................................]] because these proposals a year ago you did not support them, except for Mr. Ivanov. It is good that you speak with this pathos to the entire parliamentary group and stand by these proposals and we will support them. [[GERB lines.]] So don't worry about us. And I am glad for this evolution that you have with you, but I strongly object in the way in which you have expressed your thesis that you have hardly had a reproach on Mrs. Petrova's proposals concerning the legislation of the Forty-second National Assembly. [[GERB lines.]] Mrs. Petrova was supported by the BSP parliamentary group, we stood behind these proposals... [[GERB lines.]] That's right. I would like you to state which are these political forces who have accused you that you almost did not want this incident to have a political dividend, we in the Forty-second National Assembly, on the contrary, did not have any reproach on you and we have supported this legislation. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u86	Second line? Here you go, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u87	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u88	This is a line to the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u89	Yeah, that's right. I would like to point out that we, from the political group of Volja, will also support bills that benefit the public and for the benefit of the people, which is why we are here. I don't want you to get the wrong idea that we don't want cameras. On the contrary, we want twice as many cameras, but we do not want to remove road signs. Two years ago, signs were accepted. Who are the people who supported and why did they do it? So two years later, we can take them out and put them back in place after two more years. All over the world, there are warning signs of video surveillance, and we're removing them. You're saying this is one of the ways to prevent a war on the road. If so, let's gather experts, let's discuss what are the other ways and make complete changes, not make an hour by spoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u90	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. Mr. Atalay, you have the floor for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Tsvetanov! Dear colleagues, I do not see any MPs in this House who are opposed to reducing the casualties. Don't put it that way. Our condolences to the colleague and her efforts, and we welcome her. However, do not enter into the regret scheme and force the MPs to vote for something that absolutely does not relate to the victims. You yourself said you reduced the victims from 1,000 to 600 with the sign. Without the sign, how many will it be? My fellow Members, this is very serious! It's not serious! You explained that 56% of road accidents are in rural roads, 36% in urban conditions. There's signs in there, too? Colleagues, we pay attention to you that removing the sign does not solve the issue of victims on the road. The removal of the sign is the idea of raising funds in a fund that you mentioned here and then some way to spend it. I don't mind if this fund is powered, if it's for preventative activity, and by state funds. No one's against prevention. This palliative part of you to step out of this tribune and explain to the public that with the removal of a sign 24 you will reduce, Mr. Tsvetanov, the victims on the roads, is extremely unpleasant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for the back. After him, a statement by the MP Krasimir Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am convinced that even this legislative initiative, which we could implement in the forty-fourth Parliament, will be insufficient to achieve the effect that we all strive for, yet we must have steps that we must implement. If we feel that this step leads to this effectiveness, why not accept it today? I would especially like to share with you that the legislative package that is being tabled is not resolved by the fact that the people's representative has awakened this morning and has decided that he must make a legislative initiative in this direction. This is a work done by representatives of the Transport Commission, the Internal Commission and representatives of the relevant institutions who have had the opportunity to express their opinion. They are also actively involved in the ideas that colleagues have taken to implement this bill. I would like to call here because we have a pass in Mr. Ranovski's room, who is from the DMV, to share how it actually came to the bill that we are putting into plenary today on the basis of dialogue with all institutions, even with the non-governmental sector. I want to share with you that the Road Safety Fund will actually be able to build this control infrastructure, which will give greater efficiency and this will be the real measure that will be implemented. I would also like to share that colleagues from the other parliamentary groups said that it is necessary to enter schools and work with students. Yes, because from the Road Safety Fund, I do not know if you are familiar, but for years there is an interdepartmental working group that is led by the Minister of Interior. It includes absolutely all representatives of the institutions concerned who have a direct bearing on this integrated approach and from this point of view also the non-governmental sector. There are already considered the possible means to be provided for the implementation of a specific project, which has a preventive activity, whether it will be a campaign for prevention, whether it will be training the students, together with the control bodies to present what the children need to learn and, of course, building the infrastructure for the cameras to be placed. We are pleased that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has built infrastructure and you know that there are cameras that control the flow of cars. This infrastructure can only be fitted with cameras with the respective resolution and with the corresponding software task, so that we can actually do what we are talking about today, but not control citizens and restrict their rights. It's to save a man's life. One human life to save from this legislative measure, I think it's worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Before the speech, a personal explanation of the MP Nelly Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since my colleagues before me mentioned my name, I would like to address Mr. Atalay. Exactly about this Fund, which you are talking about, that unknown where these funds will be spent, I want to tell you that five years ago Mr. Tsvetanov was the person who gave us a hand and helped us with the sum of 100 thousand. lv. Ten pedestrian paths to be built across Bulgaria, where children died. I believe that this Fund will work well together with the non-governmental sector, which I am a part of, because there are only such parents and such mothers around me. I sincerely hope that Mr. Tsvetanov will really help us again. I don't think any politician or colleague can do PR on my back or on the back of any other black parent. Let's really stop with some qualifications. It is right, as legislators, and as people who are in this room, to make some changes. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u96	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. Moreover, funds are usually of a targeted nature. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since I didn't have a chance to get into the lines of Mr. Tsvetanov's speech, I'm addressing you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Just because you're talking for a long time doesn't mean you're talking argumentatively. The changes proposed in the Road Traffic Act are firefighters. They are a result of an action undertaken at the direction of the prime minister and what you explain is that there is a broad consensus on the specific changes in the Law is not true. An analysis is also needed in order for there to be intersection, prevention, less violations of this Law, the executive authority must be engaged in the face of the Ministry of Interior, concrete actions and events to be taken. It won't happen just with these two amendments to the Law, and you know it perfectly well. When you explain that there is a tendency to increase deaths, you should also have the courage to admit that in the executive power, in the chambers where GERB is a leading political force, in this very period there is an increase in road accidents, including deaths. I don't think this topic should cause a political clash. We need to find a consensus. We will support these changes, but I want to see concrete measures, actions, events by the Ministry of Interior with an understanding by the Interior Minister for the problems that are in the office itself, and ways in which to achieve a reduction of these road-to-road accidents at least what the Ministry of Interior can do. Otherwise, the complex approach in terms of investment in road infrastructure, training of adolescents, this is with a long-term horizon. Now, tomorrow, what will you do, watch all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u99	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov! You are entitled to use your expertise and to use the expertise that BSP is betting on because we see that you are using the expertise of Bulgaria without censorship. You can use Mr. Ranowski to actually give you recommendations in this direction. Colleagues, we are submitting a Bill that is now being viewed at first reading and between first and second readings, Mr. Yankov, you have full rights as a MP to make an improvement or your view is based on your expertise on relevant legislative changes that can be introduced at second reading. As to whether they are firefighters or not, if a measure results in effect, I am about to be accepted. Because inaction enables us to tolerate or by silent consent to have more victims on the road. I don't want to be a part of this as a MP. We, the MPs from GERB, of course, are the ones who want to improve this trend, which will be better, and not what you said about the period. If we start talking about periods, I don't think it's gonna be much for you, so I'm gonna stop here. Because at the moment we have a good dialogue, we are getting the political support from the BSP for this Bill and what I said just a moment ago you will also get our support for all these legislative initiatives and good for Bulgaria and for society. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Here you are, Mrs. Dukova, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Iankov, you are pleading against this tribune not to politicize this issue and I agree with you. If what you say is an order of the Prime Minister and is multiplied in Mr. Tsvetanov's speech, I will say yes, I will vote. If the fact that he ordered such measures to be taken to stop the killings, the road injuries, what is your logic? Maybe today in London, when he burned down this building, there was no need for fireman's measures! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u102	Is there a third line? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mrs. Dukova, I am not against firefighters being able to respond in due course when they need their action. But they need to be trained, motivated, completed. It's like an answer to your line. You can tell yourself what I'm trying to tell you. Otherwise, to the revered Mr. Tsvetanov, Mr. Tsvetanov, listen to what your opponents from this parliamentary stand say. I have announced that we will support it. We will also have proposals between first and second readings, but I have pointed out to you that only with amendments to the Road Traffic Act will not happen, but with concrete actions, measures, events by the Ministry of Interior, more money for infrastructure, more opportunities to train adolescents, our society to be tolerant on the roads. We demonstrate that we can hear every expert in the Republic of Bulgaria. You're closing in on your expertise. What you're trying to insinuate by talking for a long time is not convincing, I told you! Otherwise, with regard to the BSP programme itself, I would just remind you that we, as a political party for the early parliamentary elections, proposed and discussed with the experts our Internal Security and Public Order Programme and you repeated our programme two weeks later. [[Noise and lines, laughter from GERB.]] You repeat this lie about the thousands of policemen that are needed "BSP looks at from your program, get acquainted with the programs and others. I appeal to you hear both the arguments and what everyone is saying. In BSP's expertise and with the experts we work with, and with what is also available in the parliamentary group as opportunities, we will give you good ideas. Take advantage of it! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Any other speeches? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Ranowski, to answer the questions asked. [[Heckling]] Please, talk outside the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u105	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The debate that is being held here shows once again that the topic of road safety concerns all of us and only one common effort can lead to a reduction of the black statistics that we all see and for which we are being fingered wherever international conferences are taking place. The action carried out by the Road Police is primarily aimed at controlling drivers to correct drivers' behaviour, rethink their behaviour on the road and comply with traffic rules. It is very clear in the Law that all who take part in the road, the drivers, must comply with the rules of movement. Speed exceedings are regulated in the law that they are photographed by automated technical means, drivers are not stopped, are not checked and receive the corresponding fine with an electronic ticket at the address of the owner of the motor vehicle. The process of introducing automated technical means has started very far back in the years 2008 with the first cameras. In 2010, the first stationary speed control cameras were introduced. The number of mobile cameras has increased over the years, currently 148. But in order to have effective and real control, we should not put the appropriate road signs warning the driver. Just for example, I will give you that during the years when the number of victims was the lowest in 2011, 2012, 2013, then in front of mobile speed control cameras, no warning road signs were placed. They were introduced at the beginning of 2015 in connection with the Interpretation Decision No 1 and in order to be able to operate again with automated technical equipment, because in 2014 the activity with mobile control cameras was terminated and the old stop method was returned with an act in a place that slow and clumsy procedure and it did not work. The removal of the signs before the mobile cameras is extremely important in order to have real and effective control over the drivers of motor vehicles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Ranowski. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Road Traffic Act, No 754-01-17, tabled by the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 2 June 2017. They voted 191 MPs: 165, none, abstention 26. The bill was passed in the first vote. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I propose a procedure for reducing the deadline for submission of proposals between first and second readings of five days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u108	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 184 MPs: 161, against 5, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE ENERGY LAW. Report of the Committee on Energy for a second vote. The President of the Commission Delyan Dobrev is on the stand and will acquaint you with its content.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! [[Noise, lines and laughter in the hall]] . On 18 May 2017, a report on the draft law supplementing the Energy Act No 754-01-2, submitted by Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs, adopted in the first vote on 1 June 2017.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u110	Excuse me, Mr. Dobrev, just a moment. Colleagues, take your seats or leave the Chamber, but this is a second vote and I remind you that your votes are needed for those who want to express some respect for the bill. Votes are coming up. You have the floor, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u111	Thank you. The Act for Supplement to the Energy Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u112	Statements? There are no speeches. Please vote. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law, fully supported by the Commission. Vote 134 MPs: 124 against 2, abstention 8. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u113	Paragraph one proposal from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Ivan Genov and Atanas Kostadinov. "Paragraph' is the only one that is amended as follows: It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. Art. 30, para. 4 is amended as follows: The Commission shall not regulate prices for the sale of heat and shall not set prices under art. 33, para. 1 of producers who, according to the audited annual financial statements for any of the previous three calendar years, have total annual revenue over BGN 5 000 000. and their revenues from the sale of electricity from cogeneration of heat and electricity exceed 35 percent of their total annual revenue. The rule referred to in the preceding sentence does not apply to producers who: 1. carry out transport and supply of heat to domestic customers; 2. use the heat produced for the production of plant agricultural production for the quantities of heat actually used for the production of such production and their corresponding quantities of electricity. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for paragraph only, which shall become § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 4 after the word "supplied', add "not less than 100 per 100' to "supplied'.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u114	Thank you. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u115	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! because this is about a proposal that we have made with colleagues from the BSP Parliamentary Group, I would like to justify what we have proposed and the Commission has not accepted. It is about the fact that combined high-efficiency electricity and heat production is only when we have useful use of heat. When, in the last parliament, we introduced the proposal that vegetable producers who have greenhouses have the opportunity to build their cogenerations, in which they are sized, that heat should go for the production of vegetables and then use a preferential price for electricity, we meant that this term would also be used by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. It turned out, however, that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission at the meeting of the Energy Commission at Parliament decided to prove to us that they from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission have become the Energy and Water Registration Commission! They do not want to take control, they do not want to deal with determining which of the proceedings is highly efficient. Moreover, they decide that things can be useful when they are given very simple indicators and only as a registrar bring them in. When we discussed this Commission's report, I announced that it is better to introduce a powerful computer, enter the data inside, come out the results and everything will be even cheaper for the state. The public regulator cannot use terms in its opinions which do not comply with the reality and which would violate people's trust in its regulatory activity and try to prove that the inefficiency of production may be the cause of the Commission's inaction. That is why we have made this proposal. Our proposal responds in spirit, in meaning and in actual state of affairs. What is high-efficiency co-production.. only for that heat that is used in production to account for electricity. The Commission did not accept this with the arguments that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission explained that there was no technological possibility for them to define and do this control. Based on the fact that, when we introduced the Law in the last parliament, we meant that all energy would be used for heat, so I made the second proposal after the first was rejected, but I did not withdraw it and I would ask it to be voted on, nevertheless for the 100 percent. I will only ask if we are going to look at the 100 percent and you will reject our proposal again with Mr. Genov, let the words "not less" drop, because "not less than 100%" suggests that there is more. And to stay only 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u116	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u117	Dear colleagues, the proposal of colleagues Tasco Ermenkov and a group of MPs was rejected in the Commission not because the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission cannot or does not wish to monitor and control the heat producers in question, but because it became clear to all members of the Energy Commission that two of the specific producers are trying to deceive the system so to speak. We gave examples in which at the TPP, Visahim is trying to obtain several tens of millions based on a contract for 39,6 decares of greenhouse. We have also shown you statistics in which all nine existing greenhouses in Bulgaria, warmly supplied with cogeneration, need 4 megawatts for 500 decare greenhouses. Therefore, the Vidahim itself must make a greenhouse of 20 000 acres to use these 157 megawatts for the production of heat electricity. Instead of 20,000 acres, they applied a contract for 39.6 acres. If we do the reverse calculation, it would appear that for this greenhouse of 39,6 acres they need 0.3 megawatts. 0.3 megawatts, and they're applying for 157 megawatts! Do you understand the difference? Five hundred times! Take the example of TPP Svishtov. According to TPP's application, they have a contract of 3.5 acres in the regulator, not even 39.6 acres, and they have ten times less! Three and a half acres! The reason not to accept the texts was not only the difficulty of control, as the regulator said, but the obvious goal of these manufacturers! If you decide to go out and make a replica, keep in mind that these plants cannot work under a certain minimum load to satisfy their own needs. If this isn't a schematic, why would anyone want to work with 0.3 megawatts if they couldn't work at less than 12 megawatts?! Do you understand what you're getting? Even if we accept these texts and say: "Yes, we will pay for these 0.3 megawatts, then he will come to the regulator and say: "Okay, but I can't work at less than 12 and I can't work at less than 20 megawatts." As long as you let me work, I'll work and get my money.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u118	What's his problem? He sells it on the free market.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u119	Colleagues, this proposal, including the correction made by colleague Tasco Ermenkov to use 100% of the heat load, was adopted unanimously by the Energy Committee. I hope we can unite around this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u120	Will you express how it can be more than 100%? Maybe less should be dropped? [[Relations from the MP Delyan Dobrev away from the microphones.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u121	I will also take account of the colleague's proposal. He made such an editorial proposal. Maybe he's right. Both in the Commission and here we have to vote that the words "not less than" should be dropped, i.e. to remain "100%." However, this must be voted separately as a proposal tabled in this House.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u122	A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I use my right to a line, on the one hand, to agree with Mr. Dobrev and, on the other hand, to replicate him. We rejected the proposal of BSP colleagues not because for some reason we disagree with him, namely because Mr. Ermenkov made a better proposal.............................................................................................................................................................. I have personally been very impressed with the Commission that we have reached absolute unanimity and all the parliamentary groups have united around this vote and supported it. Now I hope the trend really doesn't turn around and do something different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Second line? People's representative Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u125	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Dobrev! At the first reading of this Bill, I clearly and categorically stated the reasons, as well as the loss of NEK in respect of these two undertakings. You're talking here about circumventing the Law and a scam. Let me ask you: how much does electricity cost for heating in one year? You clearly know how much it costs because it is also contained in the KEWRC report for the next price period. That's nearly 315 million. lv. These companies provide around 2 million. $100,000. 214 megawatt hour electricity at an average preferential price of 149,97 BGN. You remember how much the preferential price was in terms of As this price is twice the market price, half of the total cost or about 168 million. lv. are charged as obligations to society. Here again is my question to you. I have here a comparative table with regard to the "Topplofication".Sofia. and the total costs of NEK for electricity produced by the heating companies.. 105 million; by the "Topplofication". 41 million and so on, I will not list all of them. Total high-performance energy for heat efficiency Nine hundred and I repeat: let him measure himself with equal archin! I said it at first reading. Let us stop the draining of energy in this way, but let it be the same for everyone, and not start again, as you did for the second time with the smallest and the most hurtful with Northwestern Bulgaria. Because whatever happens in Northwestern Bulgaria, it is always negative when it manages GERB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Dobrev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u127	I thank Mr. Hristov for the line he made. I didn't really mention that. Another thing I have neglected to mention is that the proposal of BSP colleagues in question received negative, entirely negative opinions from both the Ministry of Energy and the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and from the four employers' organisations who personally attended the Commission. They had formally submitted opinions and had taken the trouble to come with the managements of the employers' organizations, the management of the Ministry, the management of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in order to oppose the text of colleagues. Why do you think they did that? If they hadn't, and we adopted such a text, then we all need to explain why we have allowed energy costs to increase by 30 million. lv. per year. Regarding Mr. Popov's line. Mr. Popov, when we did the energy reform two years ago, we reduced the heating money by about 150 million. About 150 million we've cut it! The three hundred and fifteen million you are quoting right now is the right number, but this number is after the reduction. Before the reduction, it was 500 million. And during this reduction, we also cut the 50 million in question. BGN, it was actually about 60 million. BGN, for sydakim, and TPP If you remember, Vidahim was producing 2 million tyres. BGN, but it weighed on energy by 50 million. lv. That is to say, BGN 52 million total revenue, of which 2 million. lv. He lost, and 50 million. lv. It's the electricity. The situation was similar at TPP Svishtov. Now we're not harming anyone, we're not harming these two businesses. We did that two years ago. In fact, two years ago, we cut that 60 million. lv. by this ineffective subsidisation of unknown activities. Because if you calculate that 2 million. lv. from tyre production, it will be certain that on a 24-hour working day, 365 days a year, it will turn out that a few pairs of tires are made each day. This is gonna turn out to be! Because the tires that are produced are big and expensive. And we've done this calculation. So it's not about damaging someone now, it's about preventing tens of millions of leva from being relisted into the electricity bill. Again, I repeat the negative opinions and personal presence of both employers' organisations and the Ministry of Energy and the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u129	If you don't mind, I'd like a personal explanation because I've been mentioned.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u130	Here's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u131	Sorry to take so long. Dear Mr. President, I take the floor for a personal explanation on the occasion of the speech of my colleague from Volja. I want to tell you that the proposal I made was not made before, but after our proposal was rejected, because this proposal that we made with our BSP colleagues, the idea was to close the door, not open it. For example, the fact that Vidahim cannot work under 12 megawatts or 20 megawatts for its own needs means that it will not work as a cogeneration, will not work as a renewable production. We closed this door like this. But since we saw that this would not work out the way we propose, we made our proposal with the 70% door opened by importers because it remained 30%, which approximately equal to about 10 megawatts of uncontrollable high-performance production, to be closed 100%. That was the reason! Just to make it clear to you why we made this proposal. My second proposal was the result of the rejection of the first. And the meaning of both, I think, is the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. My colleague has mentioned you well. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Someone might accuse me of being like Mircea Krishan and cucumber! I'm staying in my position! As I explained last time, so I demand that the arguments be heard now. Seventy percent, one hundred percent, all the other percentages are a private case of our proposal. Private cases! The Energy and Water Regulatory Agency cannot give a positive opinion on 70%, which is a private case of our proposal, and it cannot give a negative opinion on the proposal that covers all options! This proposal is such that no one can accuse us of stimulating or lobbying for any particular firm, or we are trying to punish another or other specific companies. There's no such thing! This proposal is the same for everyone and enables anyone who uses the cogeneration to determine for themselves how much heat it will use for vegetable production and for this equivalent amount of electricity of this heat, for that amount of electricity, it will receive a preferential price. What Mr. Dobrev says can't work under 12%. Well, if they use heat 500 kilos, they'll get a preference for 500 kilos. The remaining electricity produced on the free market! What's the problem? What's that gonna do to NEK? How are there any claims for 30, 50, 100 million from NEK coming? Preference shall be paid only for the equivalent amount of heat used to produce vegetables. In this regard, it is absurd to me that I am sorry that I was not at the Commission, it is absurd the opinion of the KEWRC! The last paragraph of this opinion, if you read it carefully, you will see that it explains how we cannot make such a decision because the large thermal plants in this situation, if they have a small amount of heat for agricultural production, much of their electricity will have to go to the free market where prices are lower and they will suffer large losses. Well, isn't that why we went to change the law so they wouldn't use it? That's not a big loss. They simply will not receive the bargain that they could receive by this text of the Law, which is imperfect. That's why we're changing it. And something else that's much more important, and now I'm gonna say it. There was no way to control it! Colleagues, whether they are 70%, whether they are 100%, whether they are 99% is the norm that sets the Law. In order to verify that this norm is respected, otherwise the Law does not make sense if it is not controlled, we must have measurements for the amount of heat used, that it is not 98% if this proposal is accepted, but 100%. That's the kind of control there must be! They're 70, they're 100%, the heat control should be there! Secondly, this preference is only for the production of vegetables! There has to be control! Does this greenhouse produce vegetables? It can produce mushrooms, it can produce cloves, it can produce strawberries, it can produce strawberries, there are no preferences in these proceedings. So the control of what is produced is also necessary, whether it is 100% or otherwise, our proposal to cover the entire range. The third, which is also very important, must have some norm of how much is produced by decare. Sorry, but someone can make 10 acres of greenhouse, which, as Mr. Dobrev said, can only have a fence on the side, without a roof and warm environment, produces nothing, but there are claims. As there is no norm of production, he will buy from the village, from Grandma Pena, 10 kg of cucumbers and 10 kg of tomatoes and say: here, this is my production. No more production, this is my production, 100% of the heat I've spent...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u134	The weather, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u135	...pay! So control whether it's 100%, whether...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u136	Mr. Genov, your time is up! There is no way to compensate for your absence in the Commission by extending the speaking time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u137	Okay. Think about it, guys! Think about it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u139	Dear Mr. Genov, I've been listening carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u140	After the vote, there will be a break.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u141	You almost suggested we start counting cucumbers on the greenhouses. That's not the job of the regulator. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission should not deal with walking and measuring decares, seeing if cucumbers are cucumbers, how many cucumbers are cucumbers, how many kilos of cucumbers have come out of a decare of greenhouses and so on to verify some heat spending. You say they would use this little bit of heat, and the other would sell it on the free market. Well, to sell it now. Sell it and now, who's bothering them? It bothers them that they don't get the bill and that's why they want to hang on NEK's power meter, give 30 million of the energy so they can get the bill?! With these decares that I am telling you, they will produce 0.2%, which will be paid at the high price and 99.8% on a free market. If they could sell 99.8% of their energy on a free market, they would now. You're telling me where that $30 million came from. lv.? Look at their application. Why didn't they ask for 10 000 levs when they would use 0.2% of the power and they asked for 30 million. lv.? Tell me, they've already asked for it. That's not something that's gonna happen. That's something that's already happened. That is why it is the next paragraph in our Bill, which says that the regulator will take into account this provision, which we will adopt today, because otherwise the regulator with our vague text from before, which I opposed last year to include financing greenhouses through the price of electricity. On the one hand, we are closing all the unnecessary costs in energy, on the other hand, I was missing then, unfortunately, in the committee and in plenary I was a business trip abroad, we have allowed to finance the greenhouses through the price of electricity. And that needs to go away, if you ask me. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It's already a fact. 30 million request, it's already a fact. If we do not accept this bill, you must explain to the Bulgarian society why you allowed for two power plants to drain the state energy again by 30 million. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Genov. You have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u143	I don't understand anything, Mr. Dobrev. [[Laughter]] What in our proposal gives you reason to believe that, if it is accepted, these power plants will come and ask for 30 million when it is as much heat as electricity and at preferential prices? And the other thing, I don't know what we're going to become, but if we pass a law, we need to know how we control the enforcement of the law. If we do not control the enforcement of the law, according to how the texts are written in it, there is no point in accepting it, because it will mean that this law will not be implemented, no matter what area it is in. There are indications in the Law, preferences for agricultural production. That's it. You have to control the heat and it's for agricultural production, it has to be controlled that agricultural production is produced and it has to be controlled that it is not purchased from the market but produced as a quantity. We don't become cucumber counters. We need to find a pattern to control what we've given as a reference. If we can't control it, just... I don't mind, this Law has been passed in the previous National Assembly, I haven't been there, and I can't tell you why it was adopted. Once we have accepted it this way, we must make it so that it applies to all producers, to all the producers who want to produce what they want to produce, if there is a preferential element in production, there are preferences for electricity. That's it. I can't figure out what's unclear about what I'm talking about, and you're constantly giving me 30 million dollars.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. There are many who wish to speak, which will happen after a 30-minute recess. [[The National Representative Delyan Dobrev wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] You'll have a personal explanation after the break. We will start with a personal explanation of the MP Delyan Dobrev. To inform you, honourable Members, during the holiday the National Assembly hosts a charity initiative dedicated to people with disabilities. On this occasion, an exhibition of the Art carts, made by the artist Nina Ziseva from the Center for Independent Life, will be opened at the Club of the National Representative. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the event. At 12.05 we continue with the personal explanation of the MP Delyan Dobrev and the others speaking. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u145	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We are continuing the plenary session. The Quaestors shall invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber. To finish the previous procedure, Mr. Dobrev, please come in for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Genov, you mentioned several times, you said you couldn't understand me, so I want to read you something from the opinion of the regulator. I hope when I read it to you, you'll understand what I mean. I've given her examples. You must have misunderstood me again. So I quote to you the opinion of the regulator: This proposal should not be accepted in the light of the arguments and arguments raised. In the middle of this text is said: The proposed amendment to the Project of the Energy Act creates an opportunity for the purpose of the Law to be surrounded by the use of large energy capacities, of which minimum amounts of heat are intended for the production of agricultural production. And the opinion of the regulator ends with the following: Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u147	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. For a statement there is the people's representative Ramadan Atali.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! In light of the circumstances, we missed the deadline to make proposals between first and second readings because the deadline was shortened. But in the Commission we had made a proposal under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u149	When not accepted, it is not noted in the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u150	So you didn't accept it, okay. Colleagues, with several sentences I want to explain to you what is going on with this Law, the Law which is legal for Vidahim, the Law for TPP Svishtov. It's about both TPPs, guys. But at first, the background. When the Law was adopted a year ago to give preferences for the production of cogeneration electricity or highly efficient electricity in the production of vegetables from greenhouses, it was missed how much of the heat used to pay for that heat produced or used, and therefore there are certain requests. We understand here from you that they all want 100% of the heat produced, reciprocal electricity, preferential price. We're going to both extremes. So far, 100% of the electricity produced has been paid for. Now we tell them that you will use 100% heat. Colleagues, this in plain language means that from now on, preferential prices for production in greenhouses will not be available, and for this thing Mr. Tasco Ermenkov will be responsible. Why wouldn't there be? Because it was so clever what GERB did. Mr. Delyan Dobrev here from the stands several times says with Mr. Nikolov that they will not support vegetable production in the greenhouses. I didn't hear Minister Taneva agree? You are going in the opposite strategy today with the opposite proposals and therefore the question arises: what were the employers doing there? They were called against other employers because they were not explained that they had to pay the part of the electricity that produced just as much heat that should be used to produce vegetables. If this thing were explained to them, they wouldn't have any claim. But since they were told that this was a Part-time Law for Visahim and for Svishtov, they were against it. And now we are putting the question, fellow Members, from now on, preferences for highly efficient electricity in the production of vegetables in greenhouses will not be available. I then expect Mr. Delyan Dobrev from here to offer to drop out in art. 30 t. 4. Because what you offered with 100%, these people will not use part of the heat to heat up their buildings, the losses will not be taken into account. They are 100% in no way able to use the heat produced in their greenhouses. With this text you solved the problem of dropping preferences. However, the employers, Mr. Dobrev, were and raised the question: what do we do with the preferential prices of heating? As everyone else put the issue here on the agenda. If we are going to change the philosophy of the Energy and Energy Strategy Act, right now I suggest that we vote against this Amendment and Supplement Act, we make a new law where we remove any preferential prices of brown energy, green energy, and thus you will have already achieved your goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u151	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, at first reading, I abstained from speaking because I believe that the small change proposed in the Law as a text leads to major changes in the philosophy of the Law. But after the fairy tales that were spoken at first reading and now at second reading, I can't help but think. However, we are talking about Vidahim, as an occasion for these changes. We are now in the middle of 2017. The Combine was established in 1965. The Pride of the Economic Assistance Council. Those of the younger colleagues who do not know what this means, this is the competition in the common market, now called the European Union. And we've come from high-tech radial tires to talk about cucumber production in Vidahim. The truth is that these 40 decares of greenhouses, which were mentioned as grounds for circumventing the Law, have existed for tens of years and are on the other side of the road of the combination. They continue to produce tomatoes and cucumbers and have nothing to do with Visahim. Most likely they would have been formally used for an occasion. I can provide, and they are accessible, of course, the accounts for the last years of the work of the combination. The combinat was created as a conglomerate of four plants. This is the tire factory, the polyamide fibre plant, the repair and mechanical plant and the thermal plant. In 1998 he was declared bankrupt, bankrupt and so on. In mid-2002 it was privatized. Since the fall of 2002, the power plant has been operating. The first tire was produced at the end of 2003 solemnly with a procession, about 4 km away, it was rolled from the factory to the center of Vidin with celebrations, mass joys and so on. Since then, the plant has continued to produce electricity, not tires. And he's privatized to produce tires! Since I'm a participant in these trials, don't look at me surprised, but I'll tell you some numbers. In 2013, according to official accounts, the revenue of the plant was 54 million, of which 52 million. lv. It's electricity and 2 million. lv. they're from other activities, but not just tires. It is recorded by other activities. In the official report 2015 and 2016, certified by the Chief Accounting Officer, the Executive Director and a member of the Board, there is not a single number. Activities are recorded: mowing grass in front of the plant, cleaning the plant for the mixers, changing the tap for plumbing and so on. No other activity! Now we want these people to keep filling their pockets, because in their best years, 2006 and 2007, around 700 people worked in the privatized Vidahim JSC, normally just over 500. Quoting the reports officially published for the plant, the average salary is about 520-540 BGN. If we calculate roughly, of that fifty-something million, which each year was taken by the state, a little less than 3 million. lv. They were going for wages. Everything else you tell me where it was going because it wasn't developed! If we continue this way, I will tell you that on 15 March 2015 Minister Temenuzhka Petkova came to Vidin because then there was a great roar that will be liquidated the most important and most structural-determining enterprise for Northwestern Bulgaria. From the looks of it, the structure of the Northwest hasn't changed much, that the factory hasn't worked since. Then NEK sold us 1 megawatt for 116 BGN, and bought it out of Vidahim at a premium price of 140 BGN. We say we don't burden NEK, we burden ourselves. So I would like to tell the workers from this tribune that they are the worst, because what the state has given to the plant is tens of times more than what it has received. Last, 2007, 2011 and 2015 I personally offered a mediation for the work of the.Mishlin, of..Barun, to anyone to produce tires, not to steal from the electricity.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u153	We assume that you have spoken on the unacceptable text of colleagues Ermenkov, Genov and Kostadinov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Toshev, I can't help but give you a line of that speech. I remember what happened when Mrs. Petkova came to Vidin. I remember 350-400 people staying on the street with their families. This is what happened when Temenuzhka Petkova came to Vidin. With regard to the figures, I believe it is speculated. 50 million were the losses of NEK by Visahim. At first reading, but I will repeat it again at second reading, this is absurd speculation. It is not true that the prices of Visahim were BGN 140. for a megawatt hour. They're BGN 134,08. for 2015 The claim that you and Mr. Dobrev are making that 50 million were lost from the Visahim. leva, it's not true. The simple account that anyone could have made is that the average annual production, which is stated and released, is 160 310 megawatt hours. With the latest claim for price of At megawatt hour, it's 21,494 thousand. lv. It is false that this amount is automatically reflected in the cost of public debt, as you claim, because there is no electricity producer in Bulgaria to provide free electricity to NEK, and its costs to someone else to pay them. With regard to the losses for the energy from Visahim, for Bulgaria we will find that the price that every Bulgarian consumer will pay for a secure supply of Bulgarian energy, I repeat for a secure delivery amounts to 0.002 BGN. in kilowatt hours, or for a total of 1 year, this is about 0.59, with an average annual consumption of 2400 kilowatt hours. Or on an annual account of a household BGN 528, the share of electricity produced by the TPP is 59 pennies. Here it is, in practice, the loss of Bulgarian energy from the enterprise "Vidahim" but at the same time it is the only working company in Northwestern Bulgaria that provides income and livelihood for Bulgarian citizens, whom we are obliged to take care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u155	Thank you. Second line, please, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u156	Mr. Toshev, thank you for the correct figures, 54 million, of which 52 million of electricity. I forgot to say that Vidahim has taken another 2 million. BGN, or I messed up the numbers. By saying that these 2 million are also from other activities that you can't understand how many tires there are, how many are from mowing the lawn and so on. Even assuming that all other activities are the production of tyres, if the plant works 365 days a year, as a factory should operate, this means that every day there should be 5500 levs. tires. They're big tires. One tire costs 500 lv. That means this factory makes 10 tires a day. In order to produce 10 tires a day, NEK pays 52 million. lv. for electricity produced. Mr. Popov quotes the request to the regulator and says BGN 21 000. Mr. Popov, £21,000. $21 million. lv. I know thousands sound better, but 21,000 BGN is 21 million. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u157	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Here's a third line, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was going to take the floor by procedure, but I didn't hear from Mr. Toshev a single sentence relating to art. 30, para. 4 of this Law. I heard that during communist times a factory was created that in their time wanted to close it. I didn't hear anything else. Colleagues, this is not about the law of Vidahim. This is not about a law for Svishtov. It is a Law on preferential payment of high-performance electricity in the production of vegetables. Do you support this text for the production of vegetables, as much heat as it is used for how much electricity to pay a preferential price, or do you not support it? Everything else tells me you guys didn't get along. My line, Mr. Toshev, is: Will you take the attitude to pay the high-performance electricity in the production of heat to Vidahim? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u159	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Here you are, Mr. Toshev, to take a look at the lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That is why I am taking the attitude, because when the plant is privatized, it is guaranteed that it will produce tyres and current for maintenance activities only in order to support production in a high-tech or combined way. Here, with this talk, I would like to declare from this tribune that I have no conflict of interest and have no related activities with energy, unlike some of the previous speakers. That's why I can be objective. I would like to stress that we can't let these people in now who have been fooled even then... With regard to the coming of Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Mr. Popov, she came then and because of it the Danube runs 5 km per hour, because of this there are mosquitoes in Vidin, the sun rises from the Danube River and so on, including for this they closed the plant. I wanted to tell you that after her arrival, so that these workers would not be fired immediately, so that because of her coming the next day, two million were brought in. BGN to pay the salaries of these workers. This one first. Secondly, she then proposed that the plant participate in a competition, in a tender procedure, to save at least half of its workers, be the so-called "high quality reserve" of the system. They didn't accept it. Then he offered to go out on the free market because Mr. Popov himself said that it was then bought at BGN 140. From the factory, and sold to us at BGN 116. And it wasn't drained NEK. [[Noise and lines.]] I can't figure out who can't count?! I'm a math major, I'm an engineer, I'm not a lawyer, I'm sorry, but I can count, that's what you learn in second grade. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are certainly in favour of high-tech production energy, but not this way. There is nothing high-tech in the Vidin thermal power plant, working on a 1965 technology with Donbasian coal, which grinds and is thrown into the furnaces, this is high-tech production! And we can't give $50 million for cucumber production, we're gonna get golden cucumbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u161	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Please come in for a personal explanation, Mr. Popov. [[Reply from MP Vladimir Toshev.]] Sorry, you made a line. [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] He can't help but turn to you, I'm sorry. Are there any other statements? [[Noise and lines.]] Please, if you have anything to talk about, outside the room. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal by the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Ivan Genov and Atanas Kostadinov, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 180 MPs: 68 against 84, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Tasco Ermenkov, for an editorial amendment in the text of the Commission, to express the expression "not less than" in § 1 of the text of the Commission. The proposal was also accepted by the MP Delyan Dobrev. Vote 183 MPs: 157 against 5, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the text supported by the Commission importer, edited by the same, together with the newly adopted editorial amendment. Please vote. They voted 182 MPs: 144 against 14, abstention 24. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u162	Proposal by the MPs Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up a section of the Transport provision with § 2: "Transitional provision' ..................................................... The proceedings initiated until the entry into force of this law for the regulation of prices for the sale of heat and for the setting of prices under art. 33, para. 1 shall be terminated if the conditions laid down in Article 1 are met. 30, para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u163	Statements? There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the creation of a "Transitional provision' by § 2 and the content of this paragraph, according to the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 178 MPs: 141, against 6, abstention 31. The transitional provision with § 2 and content on the Commission's report has been adopted, and thus the Second Voting Bill. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECTS OF RESPONSIBILITY DECISIONS. The first project is for a solution with the importer national representative Dragomir Stoinev. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov as a member of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the draft decision. Vote 167 MPs: 164 against 1, abstention 2. The decision's been made. The next draft decision is again with the importer of the people representative Dragomir Stoynev. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. She elected Kristina Maximova Sidorova as a member of the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. 2. She elected Kristina Maximova Sidorova as Vice-President of the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics. Do you have any comments? I won't. We vote in full with the project, along with its two points. Please vote. Vote 173 MPs: for 172, against none, abstention 1. National Representative Kristina Sidorova is elected member and vice-president of the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Another Project for a decision with the importer of the National Representative Volen Siderov "President of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs." Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Agriculture and Food The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He released Pavel Dimitrov Shopov as a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the draft decision. Vote 163 MPs: 161, no objection, abstention 2. The draft decision has been adopted. And another last draft for a decision on this item on the agenda, again with an importer of the National Representative Volen Siderov, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Pavel Dimitrov Shopov as a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Do you have any speeches, Members of Parliament? I won't. I put to the vote your proposed draft decision. Vote 166 MPs: 161, against 2, abstention 3. The draft decision has been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION TO PROTECT DISCRIMINATION FOR 2016 Report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u164	Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before presenting the report, I shall make a procedural proposal under art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be admitted to plenary: Mrs. Ana Dzhumalieva, Chairman of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, and Mr. Baki Husseinov, Vice-President of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u166	Voting mode. They voted 133 MPs: 129, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guests. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u167	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a report on the Commission's action on protection against discrimination for 2016, No 720-00-8 submitted by the Commission on protection against discrimination on 30 May 2017 At a regular meeting held on 8 June 2017, the Commission on Religions and Human Rights discussed a Report on the Commission's activities against discrimination for 2016, No 720-00-8, submitted by the Commission on 30 May 2017. The meeting was attended by Assoc. Dr. Ana Dzhumalieva, Chairman of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, Mr. Baki Husseinov, Vice-President of the Commission, and representatives of NGOs. The report on the Commission's activities for 2016 was presented by the President assoc. Dr. Ana Dzhumalieva, who outlined in a summary the most important accents in it. The report reflects the results achieved by the Commission during the year, traditionally focusing on the work of the meeting groups, taking into account the activities of the specialised and general administration and setting out some of the most important objectives. Ms. Dzhumalieva stressed that in recent years the number of complaints and complaints is growing, which shows the increased sensitivity of the Bulgarian society to the manifestations of discrimination and intolerance. In 2016, the total number of complaints, alerts and inquiries was 1192, not including consultations at the Commission's headquarters and regional representations. 510 decisions have been made and this is the highest number of decisions since the establishment of the institution. Of the protected signs found mostly in the files formed for 2016 are: personal situation, this sign is complex and is a combination of different personal characteristics of the individual "family situation," education, residence, etc., disability, age, social status, ethnicity. In recent years, complaints of discrimination have increased on several occasions. The analysis of the practice during the year confirms that the protection against discrimination in the exercise of the right to work occupies a significant part of the Commission's activity. There are also complaints about a different attitude in the field of health, a differentiated approach to the provision of social services, discrimination in the field of education, restriction of access of persons to certain goods and services, inaccessible architectural environments. In the Commission's report, according to art. 40, para. 5 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination, information on the activities of each of its permanent specialized groups is included. Currently, 24 regional offices have been opened on a regional basis, but practically active in 2016 are 21. An important focus in the Commission's activities is interaction with national and international institutions, bodies and non-governmental organisations competent for equality issues. During the discussion, the MPs expressed their support for the Father and made recommendations. The President of the Commission Krasimir Velchev reminded that in order to support the activities of the institution and in particular the care for disadvantaged people, the budget for 2017 has been increased. This should have a positive effect on the work in regional offices. National Representative Vasil Antonov found that the recommendations of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights during the debates last year were taken into account. People's representative Todor Bajchev proposed to organize export receptions in municipalities in order to introduce experts to citizens' problems. People's representative Jayhan Ibryamov expressed his satisfaction that the recommendations he made last year were reflected in the report. He said it is necessary for the Commission to give more publicity to its activities and not allow other institutions to seize its functions. In view of the regional features and the situation in the Balkans, in Europe, the Commission's activities for protection against discrimination will become increasingly key. People's representative Evgenia Aleksieva expressed her opinion on the problems with regional offices that are not active. It proposed that some of the Commission's financial resources be aimed at developing information and media campaigns to promote the institution's activities. National Representative Valentina Naydenova made a recommendation for inclusion in the report of more statistical diagrams and graphs in order to analyze trends. This would give greater weight, clarity and the possibility of quick reference and information. Regarding the recommendations made, the importer said that media coverage of the activity is not as big as other institutions, but this is related to the financial estimates of the budget. The Commission is currently promoting its activities using the various operational programmes. An application is to be made on a project to create a mobile application with which every citizen of his mobile device to signal discrimination. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, No 720-00-8 submitted by the Commission for Protection against Discrimination on 30 May 2016. Project! DECISION on a 2016 report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 40, para. 5 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Commission's activities for protection against discrimination for 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u168	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Mrs. Jumalieva, you have the floor to speak. You don't want to. We are going to debate. Colleagues, statements about the Father? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the draft decision which Mr. Alexandrov read a short time ago regarding the report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination for 2016. Vote 108 MPs: 106 against 1, abstention 1. The proposal is adopted and thus the Annual Report of the Commission on Discrimination. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE SOCIAL DISCLOSURE CODE. We have a report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u169	Thank you, Madam President. First, allow me to make a procedural proposal in the Chamber to be accepted: Ivaylo Ivanov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, acting Governor of the National Insurance Institute.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u170	Voting regime for admission to the Chamber. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. Please invite the persons to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u171	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a draft law supplementing the Social Security Code, No 754-01-1, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 20 April 2017. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 7 June 2017 examined and discussed the draft law supplementing the Social Security Code. The meeting was attended by Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Sultanka Petrova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, Deputy Governor of the National Insurance Institute, Rositsa Spasova, Head of Department at the Ministry of Finance and representatives of trade union, employers' and pensioners' organizations. The bill was presented by the MP Georgi Gokov. According to the reasons of the Bill, the proposed addition to the Social Security Code is aimed at citizens with incomes at the limit of physical survival. This applies mostly to pensioners and people over 65 years of age. The reasons state that the percentage of poor elderly people increased from 28 in 2014 to 33 in 2015. According to the importers of the Bill, the three-year budget forecast envisions an average increase in pensions by about 2,5%, from which it follows that no significant change in the size of pensions appears. The importers are convinced that the low amounts of pensions of most of the Bulgarian pensioners create an intolerable situation. This requires rapid measures to increase pensions. One such measure is the conversion of the so-called old-time-receipts. In accordance with art. 70 of the Social Security Code, the amount of the pension for insurance service and age depends on the country's average monthly insurance income for the last 12 months prior to the retirement date, the ratio between the insurance income of the person and the average insurance income of the country for the defined period and the insurance service of the person. Subject to the principle of equal treatment, insured persons having the same social contribution should receive close-by-size pensions for internship and age. Because the average social security income over the years is different, even with the same contribution of the persons, there is a significant difference in the size of pensions. In order to reduce these differences, it is necessary to periodically recalculate the amount of old retirement pensions and age with the current average social security income for the country. The last such recalculation was carried out in 2008 with the average social security income for 2007. BGN 398,11 The average insurance income for 2016 has increased more than twice compared to the one for 2007. As a result, for the last 10 years the differences between old and new pensions, with the same social contribution of the insured person, have become significant. According to importers, recalculating pensions with the average social security income for 2016 would reduce inequality problems. Importers are aware that this recalculation requires a significant financial resource. Therefore, their proposal is to do so in several stages, the first of which being a recalculation of pensions with the average social security income for 2013. The proposed bill is only one of the necessary steps to seek a lasting solution with the adequacy of the size of pensions. The Members of the National Assembly have made a preliminary assessment of the impact of the proposed Draft, in which they have recorded the following in the various paragraphs: I. Grounds for legislative initiative. With pensions to the poverty line 314 BGN. For 2017 there are 1.3 million. pensioners, which represents 60% of the total number of pensioners. II. Interesting groups. In recalculating pensions with the average social security income for 2013, an increase in pensions would receive pensioners with a starting date of retirement before 2013. III. Analysis of costs and benefits. The recalculation of pensions with the average social security income for 2013 will cost about 400 million in 2017. IV. Administrative burden and structural changes. The adoption of the Bill does not impose administrative changes or the introduction of regulatory regimes and fees. V. Impact on the regulatory framework. The adoption of the proposed changes must receive its coverage in the state budget and the state social security budget for 2018. The Commission received and submitted to the importers of the Bill and the members of the Commission opinions of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the National Insurance Institute, the nationally represented employers' and trade unions. The Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria submitted its opinion on the bill during the Commission meeting. In their opinion on the Bill from the Ministry of Finance pay attention to that average insurance income of BGN 618.06. is for 2012. The 2013 report and published on the website of the National Insurance Institute on average monthly insurance income for 2013 is BGN 648,73. In addition, the bill provides for additional costs of around 480 million. lv. It should be borne in mind that the necessary monthly additional resources to recalculate employment pensions amount to around 80 million. lv. monthly, in case of recalculation with average insurance income for 2013 of BGN 648,73 The proposed changes lead to significant additional costs for the public security budget and hence to the consolidated fiscal programme for 2017 and subsequent years. The overall effect for 2018 implies additional costs of around 1 billion. lv. Proposals made for which no compensatory measures with a corresponding source of funds are indicated would result in a significant increase in the deficit of the state social security budget and additional transfers from the state budget to cover it, as well as increasing deficits for the pension system in a future horizon. With these and other arguments from the Ministry of Finance do not support the proposed bill. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy believes that the proposal made on the annual pension allocation to be revalued with the average social security income for the previous year is periodically put to their attention. The Ministry's experts have always held that there is no basis for this, as this income is indeed increasing, but this is the result of the contributions made by persons engaged in the work for which they are subject to insurance. The opinion of the MLSP stresses that in order to avoid the lag of the pensions allocated in previous years, compared to those newly granted, other mechanisms are laid down in our legislation: updating the pensions under art. 100 of the Social Security Code, which was applicable until 2016, the recalculation of pensions on the basis of § 53 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the CSR, which will be applied from 1 July 2017, the annual increase of the minimum amounts of pensions for employment, the annual increase of non-employment-related pensions. In the Social Security Code, and at present, there is an opportunity to recalculate employment pensions, while maintaining the monthly average social security income on the basis of which the amount of the pension is determined at the time of its initial award. Persons who have been granted a retirement pension for disability due to a general illness and disability due to an accident or occupational disease may request a re-calculation of the retirement and post-retirement pension if this is more favourable to them. Recalculation of pensions shall be carried out in accordance with art. 70 CSR, for an insurance internship acquired after retirement. This is the legal mechanism by which the contribution of the persons to the provision and the size of their pensions is being increased. With these and other motives, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy does not support the bill submitted by Mrs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The opinion of the National Insurance Institute, expressing similar arguments to the opinions of the MCC and the MFF, is also negative. The opinions of employers' organisations as a whole share the understanding that the problem of the size of the so-called old-time service is indeed large, but do not support the way the funding will be carried out. They also do not support changing the pension insurance model at the expense of the financial sustainability of the system. In the position of the CST was clearly outlined the lack of support for the Bill because of the understanding that all counter-boutive systems, as is Bulgarian, work on principles related to personal contribution and not with the same contribution, that there can be no equality of pensions when personal coefficients are calculated with different parameters. According to them, it is very controversial that pensions will increase their size in the way that importers of the Bill have proposed. The only supportive opinion is that of the Confederation of Labour "Support." The discussion was attended by the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Milko Nedyalkov, Julian Papashimov, Ivaylo Konstantinov, Georgi Gokov and Hasan Ademov. The MPs commented on the fact that it has not become clear which average social security income the importers have worked with since 2012, or with the one from 2013. According to most of them this is of great importance because, if the Bill is adopted, it will have to provide a different amount of financial resources. This financial resource cannot be provided without a change to the State Social Security Budget Act and a change to the consolidated framework of the state budget. The effectiveness of the approaches of the proposed proposal for the so-called "old' claims was challenged. In response, the importers of the Bill said that since its establishment the pension insurance system has generated many imbalances and the bill is only one step to improve it, the proposal is good and fair and the way they propose for the increase of pensions is appropriate and timely. As for the financial source to cover the cost of increased pensions, this could be the state budget, which is already at stake with an undervalued revenue portion. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 10 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly not to support in the first vote a bill supplementing the Social Security Code, No 754-01-1, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u172	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. There are no reports of other committees, so I give the speaker the floor for an opinion. Here you are, Comrade Ninova. Mrs. Ninova. [[Relations, laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u173	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We have introduced this bill, first of all, because we have promised it both in the election campaign for the last parliamentary elections, and we have conducted this policy consistently and when we were in government and when we were in opposition. In the same way, we made a recalculation of pensions in 2008. The only case in which such a thing was made for the Bulgarian pensioners.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u174	And we're paying it off.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u175	Not you guys. They pay it off with their own installments.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u176	The missionaries pay their dues?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u177	Stop saying that Boyko Borisov pays the pensions. He does not pay them, but the Bulgarian citizens pay them with the contributions made by the working people today. So, you know all that not a small part of Bulgarian citizens have incomes on the limit of physical survival. To the most extent, this applies to pensioners, and to those over 65 years of age. Poor adults have grown from 28% in 2014 to 33% in 2015. The poverty limit for 2017 is 314 BGN and the minimum pension, if you increase it from 1 July, will be 180 BGN. You see the difference. Over 1 million 300,000 pensioners, and this is 60% of the total number of pensioners in Bulgaria, with pensions below the poverty line. According to the government's mid-term forecast when adopting the 2017 budget, pensions will increase on average by about 2.5% per year over the next three years, which you understand is nothing for these people's lives. The situation is really severe and intolerable, requires quick and urgent measures, but situated in such a way that they do not violate the basic principles of insurance and do not demoralize the young Bulgarians to be provided at all. In our view, we should start by recalculating old pensions because of basic principles in the insurance system, and this is equality and solidarity. In accordance with art. 70 of the Social Security Code, the amount of pension for insurance service and age depends on the country's average monthly income for the last 12 months prior to retirement, the ratio between the insurance income of the person and the average insurance income for the country for the defined period and the insurance service. Subject to the principle of equality, insured persons with the same contribution, because of the difference in average income receive fundamentally different pensions. This violates the principle of equality. As I told you, this has not been done since 2008, when it did, for the first and last time then, the Bulgarian Socialist Party. The average social security income for 2016 increased more than twice compared to the one for 2007. The year in which it was last made. As a result, in the last 10 years the differences between old and new pensions, with the same social contribution of the insured person, have become significant. This condemns a small part of the Bulgarian pensioners, despite their social contributions, these people have worked and made their contributions, to receive lower pensions and to actually squander. Separately, this opposes the people with old pensions of the new pensioners and disincentives the workers. Recalculating pensions with the average social security income for 2016 would clear up inequalities, but we understand wisely that this requires a very large financial resource. Therefore, our proposal is to start step by step by step with recalculation with the average social security income for 2013 and not with the one for 2016. We believe that the proposed bill is only one of the necessary steps to seek a lasting solution with the adequacy of the size of pensions. It is first, but also most important, because otherwise we will further deepen the problem of one of the basic principles of providing, as is equality. As we have also promised, we are making a preliminary impact assessment to every bill we have tabled, it is mandatory under the Law on Legislative Acts, but this obligation is largely violated in Parliament. From now on, from the BSP for Bulgaria, each bill will be accompanied by such an assessment. I'll introduce her to you in a nutshell. The people concerned with this Bill are all pensioners with a starting date of retirement before 2013. Cost analysis: recalculation of pensions with the average social security income of 2013 will cost an additional amount of around 400 million. lv. for 2017 Administrative burden and structural changes: the adoption of the Bill does not require administrative changes or the introduction of regulatory regimes and fees. Impact on regulations: changes are required. This is the proposal to be reflected in the state budget and the state social security budget. Dear colleagues, mostly from the ruling majority, Mr. Tsvetanov called on a previous Law on Road Traffic, said: We all know that there are problems with the low pensions of the elderly and that it is impossible to live with this money. Here's our proposal for a solution. Let's hear yours. Under the pressure of GERB "Lunchers" gave up the promise to make the minimum pension 300 BGN. Only the minimum without touching any rate on the other pensions! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Yeah, and there were promises of recalculation. We have consistently been doing this since 2008, when we have been doing it in practice, during the times when we have been opposition, until now we are repeating and doing the same thing to our priority are people with low incomes, poverty and the inability to continue living this way. To carry out these priorities and tasks, we have identified what needs to be done. Our proposal today is a concrete solution to one of the problems with poverty and low incomes. Now let's hear your priorities and your proposal for a solution to this problem. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Dear Members of Parliament, you have the floor for speeches. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u179	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This Bill proposes a recalculation of all pensions granted until 31 December 2012, from 1 July 2017, with the individual factor of the person multiplied by the average monthly insurance income for the country for 2013, indicating BGN 618. and 6 c. We from the parliamentary group of GERB carefully analyzed the proposal of BSP colleagues. In this case, we have expertly approached the necessary actuarial readings. I will start by saying that there is an important error in the proposed Bill regarding the size of the country's average monthly insurance income for 2013, as you have pointed out. You have indicated that the average monthly insurance income for the country for 2013 is BGN 618. 6 cm. This, actually, honourable Members, is the average insurance income for 2012. The 2013 report and published on the websites of the National Insurance Institute, as well as in all statistical guides and yearbooks of the National Statistical Institute and of the NSI, the average insurance income for 2013, honourable colleagues on the left, is BGN 648. 73 p.m., not the one in your Bill 618 BGN. It is with this income that the pensions allocated in January 2014 were calculated. I am convinced that you will belittle this important mistake and you will surely say that these are technical details. However, honourable Members, when it comes to financial parameters, we must be very careful and approach expert ones. It is undoubtedly necessary to increase the incomes of Bulgarian pensioners because they are low, but this should be done very carefully, according to the financial opportunities of the budget of state social security and especially with the basic principles and the adopted legislative framework in the field of social security. What are you practically proposing with this Bill? Upgrading of all pensions granted until 2012, including. Honourable Members, this is an unprincipled levelling with pensions from 2013, for which the persons have no social contribution at all and you do not mean that those who worked in 2013 and then retired have a much greater significant contribution than those who retired before 2012. You propose that the monthly monthly insurance income be the same for all pensioners, regardless of when they retired, and at the level of 2013, as has been said here in the reasons of the importer. I would remind you again that in 2007. At the time of the government of Sergey Stanishev, an update of pensions was made in the same unprincipled way as the violation of the pension model. From 1 October 2008 all pensions awarded until 31 December 2007 with an average monthly insurance income for 2007, which was then 398 BGN were updated. and 17 C.E. In both cases, the pension model is corrupted and distorted in 2008 and now. Persons with less contribution to the insurance system must be equalled with those with greater contribution. This is a violation of the basic pension model in Bulgaria, namely equality and solidarity, which was said by the importer. What does "solidarity" mean in the pension system? Solidarity is that today's generation of workers cover the pension costs of the previous generation of workers and insured persons, while equality is expressed, honourable Members, in a relatively uniform application of state social security regulations for all insured persons. It is very important to remember how pensions are calculated, what are the parameters that affect their size and, in particular, that the average monthly social security income of the persons from the last 12 months prior to the pension allocation is taken as a basis for calculating pensions. This is also laid down in the pension formula by which all pensions are calculated. The rule adopted to take into account the country's average monthly social security income for 12 calendar months prior to the month of pension granting is that until now the person was involved in the insurance, contributed social security contributions and his income was accounted for in the determination of the country's average monthly social security income. After retirement, persons who have not worked are not subject to insurance and have no contribution to the insurance system, have no contribution to the formation of the monthly monthly insurance income. And most importantly, they have no reason to determine and recalculate their pensions depending on this income. In order to avoid the lag in the amount of pensions allocated in previous years, our legislation provides for other mechanisms such as the so-called Swiss rule. There are rules and principles in social security, they must be respected and we must be extremely careful and, above all, expert on what we propose. Next, another weakness of the Bill should be considered. According to the text of the proposal, the recalculation is carried out by multiplying the individual figure by the country's average monthly social security income for 2013, after which the amount of the pension is determined under the terms and conditions of Articles 70, 75 and 79 of the Social Security Code. This means, in practice, that even if all pensions for work awarded by the end of 2012 are recalculated, the full equality between those pensions and pensions granted at the beginning of 2013 will not be achieved, as it is not envisaged that after calculating the new amount, the updates received under art. 100 of the Social Security Code for 2015 and 2016. This is very important. Another important fact that importers have not taken into account is that all pensions awarded by the end of 2013 are calculated from lower social security income, given 2012. I can't really understand which monthly insurance income you are taking from the 2012 or 2013 with this error? If you want to recalculate all pensions for the work with the average monthly social security income for 2013 all pensions should be subject to until 31 December 2013, and not to those you have offered all pensions by 31 December 2012. Due to this important error, the Bill, honourable colleagues on the left, is unfair to pensioners with pensions granted in 2013, because they will practically receive nothing. You get a vacuum. The individual pension reflects the individual's personal contribution to the insurance system in a specific period and its correlation with the level of income achieved measured by means of the average income. I would like to remind you once again that the most important element in the formula for determining the amount of pension for insurance service and age is the country's average monthly social security income for 12 calendar months, before the month of granting the pension. The arbitrary collection of insurance income from the period to which the person does not have a social contribution to the social security system not only violates equality, which is a fundamental principle, as I said and mentioned in my speech, but creates an unprincipled equalisation to those persons who retired in 2013 and 2014, who make a much greater contribution to the social security system, and as the retirement period departs from 2013, the more this injustice increases. In practice, what we tell them to all working Bulgarians: provide yourself with whatever insurance income you want, you can also do the unreal, even if you get a low pension, because in time we will recalculate your pension with a higher income formed by other honest Bulgarians. That is the truth, and we must therefore be very careful when proposing these texts. Yes, it sounds nice, it's populist, but, colleagues, it is unprincipled and mostly disrupts the stability of the Bulgarian pension system. Another important factor to consider is that, according to your proposal, all pensioners will not receive an increase and recalculation of the pension, as according to your proposal they are not subject to a recalculation of the average social security income for 2013. Three hundred and thirty-five thousand. and 373 pensions granted after 31 December 2012. It is also very important to stress that according to this your proposal will not receive an increase in disability pensions due to general illness, disability pensions due to an accident or occupational disease. I will also refer briefly to the estimates that have been made in detail by the National Insurance Institute and have found an application in their opinion, and it is important to note that the adoption of the Bill is related to the provision of a very high financial resource. In case the planned government management programme increases the minimum pension from 1 July to 180 BGN. and from 1 October to 200 BGN, the necessary additional funds for the period from 1 July to the end of December in order to implement your proposal, that is 570 million. BGN, and for next year the necessary funds are 1 billion. And 220 million. lv. I also asked BSP colleagues during a Commission meeting: where will they get the 570 million. lv. by the end of the year to secure this financial proposal? I didn't get an answer. Without updating the budget of state social security and the state budget, there is no way this proposal of yours can be implemented. Such a decision is not within the powers of MPs as a legislative initiative if you want to change the budget of state social security. In this sense, the initiative of BSP is not bound by the powers of MPs to change the state budget. My fellow Members, I'll be done here. I think I was quite specific in my speech. I have given enough arguments, supported by facts, with estimates, and therefore we from the parliamentary group will refrain from supporting this bill. And let us not be fooled that this bill will achieve equality and justice in terms of the size of the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners. The pensions really need to be increased because, as I mentioned, especially those who have been granted in previous years, the size is low, but this should be addressed expertly and carefully, without breaking the foundations of the pension model in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova, for your deep and extensive speech. - What's the line? Mr. Georgi Gokov, first in line. Second is Mr. Anastasov's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, you have said so many untruths here from this tribune that I cannot find to write them down. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Revelations: "Eeeee! "]] You say you analyzed BSP's proposal. Why didn't you analyze the pensions, Mrs. Angelova?! Why didn't you analyze the pensions to see that they were outrageously low and do something in that direction? Why didn't you do that and analyze our proposal that's fighting this thing? It was an important mistake that it was BGN 618.06. for 2012, and not for 2013. The amount is written. Everyone who has eyes will see, everyone who has ears will hear it when they read it. It is unlikely that anyone is interested in those who barely buy wood and coal: whether it writes 2012 or 2013. This was an extremely important mistake. I don't know what that means to you, but I think it's not a mistake at all, it's a normal interpretation of the social security income for the years. It's an equalization. Do not use this word at all from this tribune today, because I am carefully recording everything and will quote it to you tomorrow or even today at the Commission meeting this afternoon when you propose your decision to increase only the minimum pensions, only the minimum pensions! And you're gonna talk to me about an equalization! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In 2007 and 2008, the Commission adopted a decision on the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. What tragic happened then?! Did the pension system blow up? Have people been dissatisfied? They couldn't stand it? On the contrary, if we ask people, when we go outside before the National Assembly, and ask every ten people who were satisfied and who were not satisfied with it, all ten people will answer you in a straight text that then was the best. The Swiss rule. Don't talk about the Swiss rule. You have no right! For three years, you have frozen this Swiss rule and deprived nearly a 12% increase in these people's pensions. What are you saying to me about justice? You're putting 300,000 people at a disadvantage, and you're talking about being disadvantaged! I am finishing up and I will explain to you about the financial resources where it will come from, where we will get it and what we will do by answering in my main speech. But you're wrong there, too, you know! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u182	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. The word for a line is Mr. Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u183	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Angelova, I listened very carefully to your speech. It was logically built, but you did not touch on the main issue that you should have addressed. For the first time, Mrs. Angelova, at the beginning of a certain mandate for 27 years, pensions are raised to 806 thousand people, five types of pensions, five types of pensions, and only within October 40 leva will be raised. There hasn't been a case like this in 27 years! The colleagues on the left ran the country four times, but they didn't do that. And secondly, Mrs. Angelova, are you convinced that colleagues on the left are consistent on this issue, as they are constantly speaking?! I'll tell you that they didn't. The old MPs very well remember how they voted on the proposal of the United Patriarchs on this particular issue, on this matter in the last parliament. [[Voices from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'll tell you, Mrs. Angelova. Look at the parliament's records. Only 11 of them voted. The others weren't in the room. Out of 39 people only 11 voted, and this proposal by the United Patriarchs could not pass in parliament with four votes!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u184	What about you?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u185	How many of you?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u186	Mrs. Angelova, I'm waiting for your answer to my questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u187	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. The word for a line is Mrs. Nadia Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u188	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Angelova, honourable colleagues! What is unprincipled in the 2007 pension indexing? It is unprincipled to see our teachers, our doctors, our builders, who retired before 2007 to mistake the buckets! That's unprincipled! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And if we have to go back to justice in the insurance system, I will return you back in 2000 that the system has not been quite consistent and there have been periods in which indexing took place without a certain rule based on the financial capabilities of the state social security budget for the relevant year. The Swiss rule was introduced in 2006 and there was no indexing between 2010 and 2012, then pensions were indexed in a differentiated amount from April 2013 according to when they were granted. The latest recalculation of all pensions is from October 2008 with the 2007 social security income. The update in recent years takes place every year from 1 July under the Swiss rule of 2014 by 2.6%, for 2015. "1.6%" and this year "2.4%." These 2.4% have what effect on pensions, knowing that over 520 thousand pensioners live with 160 levs?! With 160 leva.! One million and 490 thousand pensioners live below the poverty line! And if that comforts us, honourable Members, then our proposal is the principle! Because the effect it will have is on 62% of the retired, and yours will have an impact on 38%. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) National Representative Snezana Dukova wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Mrs. Dukova, I'll give you the floor of procedure after the back. Here you go, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u190	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll start with the last line to Mrs. Zhekova. A lot of emotions, a little expertise and professionalism. You sound like you're talking to angro. [[(Voices from BSP for ……]] I will tell you why the increase in pensions was unprincipled in 2008. I remember then, I was in the social system, a large part of the Bulgarian pensioners returned these two levs, which received from the increase in pensions from Mrs. Maslarova in an envelope. I remember that very well, but you seem to have forgotten it. Regarding Mr. Gokov's line. Mr. Gokov, you were in a hurry to insert this bill, like the Sign Language Bill last week, and you made major mistakes. It seems that demagogy and populism have shifted the expertise that is needed in the drafting of every bill and, above all, the bills that concern the Bulgarian citizens. Be pragmatic, be expert! Don't look for a populist effect. Because with what you are proposing, not only will you not solve the problems of the Bulgarian pensioners, but on the contrary, you will deepen them because you will destroy the pension system!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u191	Thank you. There's a word for procedure in the manner of Mrs. Dukova's conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u192	Dear Mr. Chairman, when the BSP colleagues speak, you are distracted and do not watch the red clock tick and time is over. You allow a very aggressive tone which I suspect the satisfaction is complete. You will allow me then to say that when there is talk of pension funds, colleagues from BSP disgracefully must remain silent. I'll tell you why. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u193	Can we do this in the way we're supposed to do it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u194	It's the way it is because you didn't stop them! When these funds...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u195	Mrs. Dukova, tell me in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u196	When they drained the funds in 1990 with the red briefcases...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u197	Mrs. Dukova, please, this is not the way to lead! I'm sorry. Complete the procedure in the manner of conduct to make the discussion in the Chamber normal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u198	I'm lowering my tone. [[Keeps talking away from the microphone.]] Where did they take them? Disgracefully, you must remain silent.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u199	Procedure in the manner of conduct?.......................................................................................in the manner.............................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u200	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, I am appalled that you allow lies to be told here from the stands, even more so than people who do not know the system. You're talking about professionalism, but at the same time you don't know the system. This system has always worked on a cost-covering principle.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u201	May I have the manner of conduct, Mr. Stoinev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u202	There's never been an accumulation! I'm saying this to explain the lie. You allow lies to be told. There's never been an accumulation, there's never been an drain. It's on a cost-covering principle. Colleagues, forget these mantras from the transition, because that's a huge lie!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u203	I hope these are the last procedures in the manner of conduct. Honourable Members, come in for speeches on the submitted bill. The subject is too serious to go into discussions in the manner of conduct. Mr. Georgi Gyokov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u204	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I hope my tone won't be appreciated as aggressive.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u205	I'd appreciate it, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u206	I think that no one in this House can deny the obvious that retirement pensions in our country are unduly low and that the pension system has accumulated problems, discrepancies and distortions that date back to the beginning of the pension system model. No one in this House can deny the fact that at least 33% of the Bulgarians are experiencing severe material deprivation. It is strange that the political class, which is primarily responsible for this state of the pension system, and especially those who are already managing a third term, are pretending not to notice the problem on which every year the European Commission has findings, remarks and recommendations to the government, namely. I will quote a few short samples from the last 2017 report: The project of people at risk of social exclusion remains one of the highest in the European Union. It reached 41% in 2015, which is due to deterioration in both monetary poverty and serious material deprivation. Inequality in income levels is also very high and increasing. Poverty among the elderly has deteriorated sharply. After a prolonged decline in the last 5 years, the rate of risk of poverty for elderly people over 65 has increased sharply to 31.7% in 2015. Adult women are at a particularly high risk of poverty and social exclusion given their low pension contributions. If we go deeper into this serious problem, we have to admit that around 33% of Bulgarians live in poverty, but there is also a small part of these people who live in extreme poverty, which destroys their health and endangers their lives. People who fall into the category of extremely poor do not eat regularly, can not take care of their health, live in poorly heated homes and are permanently under pressure and stress. Their lives are misery and a slow death. That is what you have condemned them to, and you have not taken any appropriate action in your entire governance since 2009 to change this picture. I am asking a rhetorical question: Is it normal to have such a picture in the 21st century in a country, a member of the European Union, operated over the last eight years, with the exception of one year of a party called Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria? What civil, what European, and what development is there in your people being in deep poverty that, instead of being overcome, is deepening?! What is the need to be the last income in the European Union?! And speaking of this poverty, I must point out that to the greatest extent it affects older people over 65 years of age, Statistics show that at the poverty line for 2017. 314 BGN, minimum pension for insurance and age receive 1 million. Three hundred thousand. pensioners - 60% of the total number of pensioners in the country - that is, they are below the limit of this poverty. We will probably vote and make the minimum pension 180, and then 200 BGN, despite the generous election promises for 300 BGN. a minimum pension, which people probably haven't forgotten, because you've been irradiating them with these messages. However, this will cause a number of other problems. It'll blow up the pension system if we don't pay attention to the other pensions and it won't change the fact that over a million. Three hundred thousand. pensioners will remain with pensions below the poverty line. According to the government's mid-term forecast, the adoption of the 2017 budget is foreseen with only a 2,5% increase in pensions, that is, no significant change in their size or anything new under the sun! You change your partners in management, but you don't change your income policy for pensioners. In our view, it is time to take steps to solve this problem and to this unacceptable attitude towards pensioners, to say a stop at this detrimental to our nation's statistics and policy in the pension system since 2000, with small exceptions during the management of the triple coalition, when there was a significant rise in pensions, with strict account of the contribution. [[National Representative Julian Angelov wants the floor for a reply]] . What line?! I haven't finished my speech! [[Laughter]] We need to make a radical change in the legal framework.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u207	Please be quiet in the hall! Mr. Angelov, I saw you, you'll have a line. Mr. Gokov, please finish your speech. The coworkers are impatient.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u208	Thank you. We are convinced that the situation is intolerable and requires quick and urgent measures, but we should not in any case take unthinkable actions that can violate basic principles of insurance and demotivate young Bulgarians at all to provide and blow up trust in the insurance system. We are referring to the proposal to increase only the minimum pension, without changing everyone else. In our opinion, we must first make a recalculation of the older pensions with a medium-term income somewhere from the nearest years. Our offer you know. It was presented by Cornelia Ninova. You know how to determine the pension under art. 70 of the Social Security Code. And now I want to give you an example to understand how right we are with our proposal. Subject to the principle of equal treatment, insured persons having the same social contribution, the same duration of the insurance service and a ratio between the insurance income of the person and the country's average social security income for a certain period should receive close-by-size pensions for insurance service and age. Because the country's average income has been different over the years, even with the same contribution of the persons, the amount of pensions is often significantly different. I'm not going to give you an example of a teacher who retired 2000 years ago and a teacher who retired after 2015, that the difference is twice, but was made approximately at the same level of insurance. In order to reduce these differences, it is necessary to periodically recalculate the amount of old retirement and age pensions with an up-to-date average social security income for the country. Our proposal you have heard it "to recalculate the pensions with a medium-term income for the country 618.06 BGN. Of course, such recalculation will only be carried out if it is more favourable to the person. No one will be harmed. The last such recalculation was carried out in 2008 with a medium-term income for 2007. "398.17 lv. Since then, average income has increased more than twice. As a result, in the last 10 years the differences between old and new pensions with the same social contribution of the insured person have become significant. This condemns not a small part of the Bulgarian pensioners, despite their social contribution, to receive lower pensions and to actually squander. Apart from that, it opposes the people with old pensions of the new pensioners and discourages working people from providing their real income because they are already getting inadequately low pensions. Recalculation of pensions with the indicated average insurance income BGN 618.06 According to our calculations, it will cost additionally the budget of state social security around 400 million. BGN and for 2018 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. Of course, the adoption of the changes we have proposed must be reflected in the state budget and in the state social security budget for 2017 and for the years ahead, respectively. These additional costs of state social security will be at the expense of expected higher than planned for 2017 revenues from the state social security budget, which are only 104 million in the first 3-4 months. BGN, which may not even change the budget balance for the year. The money also comes from the increased minimum wage, for which you predicted that there would be no change in the medium-term budget programme, and now you are strikingly increasing, in which there is nothing wrong. We accept that our calculations are not quite accurate for the period July-December 2017. It will take 480 million. BGN, as stated in the opinion of the National Insurance Institute. Nothing to worry about. It can safely be transferred from the surplus from the state budget to the budget of state social security needed around 100 million. Prime Minister Borisov says he expects a budget surplus of 1.5 billion. lv. up to 3 billion. lv. and instead of spending this money and redistribution not over the budget, but vicious and unconstitutional with ministerial decrees?... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u209	Ask for a time extension!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u210	Yeah, I want a time extension because the debate is getting more serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u211	Please extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u212	I will repeat the last thing I said that this surplus money should be redistributed, not through the budget, but vicious and unconstitutional, with ministerial decrees. A good deed can be formally done for the pensioners. The draft proposed by our parliamentary group is only one of the necessary steps. That's clear. We cannot close our eyes and not see that inequalities lead to huge problems throughout our society - marginalization, social exclusion, ineducation, pushing entire layers of the population to the edge and beyond participating in economic and social life. Therefore, from our parliamentary group with the introduction of this Bill, we challenge not only all MPs to rise above their narrow party interests and support our Bill, but also to all those who are concerned with the pension system, because it is a fair solution and we will show that we are responsible and concerned about the Bulgarians, even those in retirement age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u213	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. [[Noise and lines.]] What do you want? For procedure, come in. [[Replying, noise, shouting.]] The procedure can be given immediately. [[Loud noise.]] Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u214	Thank you. Our Rules say that for procedural questions the word is given immediately. Don't worry, you'll have a chance for a line. Please, on the basis of art. 48, para. 1 of our Rules of Procedure shall be extended during today's plenary session until the debate and vote on this item on the agenda have been concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u215	There has been a proposal to extend the time of today's sitting, honourable Members, until the item on the agenda has been completed. Please vote. Vote 176 MPs: 84, against 86, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. For a re-voting procedure, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, this is an extremely important topic. Please, seriously! Let's all vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u217	Only by the re-voting procedure. No pep talk from the stands, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u218	Re-vote procedure, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u219	Please vote. They voted 193 MPs: for 89, against 97, abstention 7. The proposal for an extension of time has not been accepted. We are continuing our discussions. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u220	Mr President, first of all, you have admitted another procedure between speeches and lines, which is unacceptable in general, because it was not in the manner of conducting the procedure, but quite another. But whatever. Mr. Gokov, your speech again provokes in us the United Patriarchs, the following. The line is now to you: it is very nice to play with people's wishes to increase pensions, to index pensions and everything else, but why didn't you support it last year? If you had supported him... [[Noise and lines on the left.]] Ahh, don't lie! What you're doing is insolence! You can check all the votes. In the revenue section you did not support at all, then your chairwoman made sure that there were 10-15 MPs from BSP only in the Chamber and it did not pass. If you wanted the minimum pension to be 300 leva. and all the other pensions to be indexed, you would have supported last year's budget votes, with your entire group, and it would have passed. And from 1 January 2017 Bulgarian pensioners would have 300 BGN. minimal pension and indexing of all other pensions, but you blatantly manipulate and lie all the time! It is good that you steal the ideas of the United Patriarchs, you import bills. That's what makes us happy. [[Strong noise, lines and calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u221	Can we not qualify, Mr. Angelov? Mr. Angelov, no qualifications, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u222	It makes us happy for everything. That's what makes us happy! What kind of qualifications did I use?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u223	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u224	Mr. Zablyanov, it is not right for you to interrupt me, because I have not used qualifications, so do not exceed your authority to interrupt me. If you can't lead the meeting, just move over and have someone else sit down. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP, noise, lines and calls from the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u225	I assume you mean someone from the Patriotic Front. Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, ten days ago I said that the left is always the child of her insolence, arrogance and populism. And today you've proven it categorically. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u227	Can you please, Mr. Gurnevsky, remember the result of your speech ten days ago?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u228	Yeah, about that. You just didn't suggest where the 300 leva came from, which we all agree on. And I'm going to propose to you. [[Strong noise, lines and calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'll propose to you!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u229	Please be quiet in the hall on the left, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u230	Mobilize the former red nomenclature and the current red oligarchy to return the looted by the Bulgarian people! And the pensions will double!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u231	Mr. Gurnevsky, that's not a line! [[From the BSP for Bulgaria...........................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u232	During Mrs. Ninova's time, a Plovdiv oligarch stole 500... [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u233	That's not a line, Mr. Gurnevsky! That's not a line! [[People's Representative Spas Gurnevski speaks on off microphones.]] Will you continue the line? Please continue the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u234	Since there were colleagues in my past who used poetry, you would allow me to give them back the gesture. [[Loud noise, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u235	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u236	The party is demagogic flags, that she's fair, social, fair, But do you look into her affairs? You will see that she is impertinent, arrogant, and especially thieving! Thank you. [[Strong noise in the hall, applause from GERB, calls and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u237	Mr. Gurnevsky, it wasn't a line! Mr. Manol Genov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u238	Mr. Chairman, don't let him! We're not on a literary dinner! If an artist needs a stage like this to recite his poems, find another place, invite his colleagues to the cafeteria, to the MP's Club and...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u239	Let's not limit the work of MPs, Mr. Genov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u240	So the subject of the debate is not the work of Mr. Gurnevski before 10 November or after 10 November, regardless, whenever. Here we are talking about social issues. We're talking people don't have the money to buy wood, they don't have the money to get on the bus, they don't have the money for medicine! [[Loud noise, lines and calls from the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u241	Mr. Genov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u242	And this part of the room destroys you with its ridiculous decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-14.u243	With Mr. Genov's speech and procedure, the time of today's meeting is over. The time is 14.00 and fourteen seconds. We're adjourned. First item for tomorrow is the Election Code. [[PHONE RINGING]]
