ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u1	Good morning, fellow Members. There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Messages. Deputy Prime Minister for Internal Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that for the period from 2 October 2017 to 15 January 2018 including in the area of the joint Bulgarian-American facility The new village will be held joint Bulgarian-American preparation JOINT "ING" -5. The preparation is carried out in the implementation of the Plan for joint Bulgarian-American training and exercises in the country and abroad in 2017 and is not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the implementation of activities to prevent military actions led by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. The notification was received on 4 October 2017. No 703 09-35 and granted to the Defence Committee. On 4 October 2017, the National Assembly received a Final Audit Report No 0600200517 for an audit of the Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 with an opinion on the Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and was available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB for a declaration is the word of the people representative Milena Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Eighty million BGN, a 15% increase in teachers' salaries, more money for the entire education system compared to the previous school year, investment in education and teacher, this is clearly poet and implemented by us, by GERB and the majority responsible commitment, which is related to reducing bureaucracy, with more freedom in fulfilling professional duties, with career growth, with support for teachers, students, children from kindergartens and with the participation of parents. And this is only a small part of the policies aimed at the Bulgarian teacher. GERB announced that teachers are at the heart of the change in the education of the 21st century. There is nothing to be convinced that a society that does not respect its teachers is losing its future. However, none of us have any illusions that declaring intentions is not a sufficient condition for change, but the changes, one by one, are already a fact. We work for them every day, listen to what our teachers tell us, listen to what our parents tell us, get over the status quo. Today is October 5th "The International Teacher's Day. A day when every society that values the knowledge that it invests in its new generations shows a worthy tribute to the people it has entrusted to educate and educate. I will allow myself to express our support and our respect through part of an author's text which Todor Penev has given me..................................the teacher and researcher of the work of Ekzarh Joseph: At one time, Professor Botyo Petkov advised his students that whoever learns the best will be more respected and respected, though envy will also be felt for the sake of superiority. The more learned is superior to the others. That's a confession. Dear teachers, I hope this doesn't sound like some annoying advice, but raise a man as he should be and then assign him tasks and actions, then clothe him with rights and obligations. Without education, without education, life is exposed to shocks that lead to doom. In order to preserve the beauty of life in order to manifest its deep moral meaning, historical experience has created imperative education systems. Only the peoples who are faithful to these systems retain their life force and leave lasting traces in the triumph of human culture. Now, in today's life, enlightenment is called in particular to work for the moral upliftment of the Bulgarian people. In this regard, it will bring a huge benefit, as long as it only works for the moral upliftment of adolescents. And that should be done with the zeal of the government and the public community. We will most strongly want to create the conditions necessary for the educational and material improvement of teaching. It fully deserves the improvement requested. This is actually required by the higher interests of the fatherland. Happy Thanksgiving, dear teachers! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, a statement for rights and freedoms will be presented to you by the group chairman Mustafa Karadayi. You have the floor, dear Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On September 28th, at a press conference, the Parliamentary Group for Rights and Freedoms called for the resignation of the President of the Commission on Human Rights Krasimir Velchev. The reason for Mr. Velchev's resignation was his statements in the discussion of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, both at a meeting of the Commission and in plenary. The bill tabled by MPs from the DPS concerns compensation for those injured in peaceful protests during the totalitarian communist regime. The issue is not in the material country, rather it is a moral act and an expression of humanity towards the victims who, by defending their rights, opposed the regime and brought democracy to our homeland. Mr. Velchev's statements are xenophobic, instill hatred, division and opposition in society. Xenophobia is hatred for each other, for the different. In our view, it is precisely this Committee on Human Rights that cannot be guided by a person who abandons European values and puts at risk the stability of the state and the unity of the nation. We pointed out that GERB, as part of the EPP, has the chance to prove that it actually shares European values and their European rhetoric is not assigned for the purposes of nationalism. For us it was extremely important that the GERB take advantage of this chance and prove their attachment to European values, to democracy, to show the responsibility they should have before society today and to future generations, but they did not hear us and the masks fell. The true face of GERB is shown the coalition is an idea and value based on nationalism and xenophobia. Our request was made clearly and categorically. What's next? Mr. Velchev through the media concluded that we all know that he is not xenophobic, but the unbiased reading of the transcripts proves the opposite. Make an apology promise if any of these people feel offended and offended, and continue with their suggestion and with some sincere shouts that raise serious concerns. As they say: circumstances do not make man, they only reveal it. The circumstances only revealed the true nature. The whole statement with the promises of an apology is an attempt to manipulate public opinion and create the impression that everything is because the DPS wants to take some money from us the Bulgarians, and give it to some group of people. Rough manipulation is also the assertion of an analogy with the regime of active fighters, but therefore you need to read the Bill and see the reasons, and understand that there is no relationship, no analogy, but it must be read impartially. It is not personally realized by Mr. Velchev, and apparently also in GERB, how severe the consequences of such behavior can be. Moreover, it is not even necessary to look objectively through the prism of European values and to make the appropriate assessment. Things are looking too bad away from normality, away from Europe. Then we ask the question: how much is this a problem of Mr. Velchev, how much is a problem of GERB and of the state and Bulgarian citizens? Mr. Velchev's behaviour and statements are a reason to think about the ways of treatment for such symptoms. It is a danger to create a suggestion, building another myth about DPS, pushing a dividing line of ours, opposing, generating hatred and aggression. And that danger has to do with national security. Our concerns come from the fact that once hatred comes into effect, the processes can go in the wrong direction with unwanted consequences. Mr. Velchev's case raises a lot of questions. Rather than point out the truth and correct mistakes, the line of opposition continues and persistent refusal to see the present and the future. This is very dangerous, and we of the DPS have always been against division and opposition. The specific case is not isolated. The lack of hearing, the lack of sensitivity on the subject, the lack of determination and will to oppose together all who have responsibilities over the future of our country and the nation can lead to problems with stability. Along with poverty and social injustice, citizens' security, stability in the country and the region are put at risk. I know that many people will say that this is not only Bulgaria's problem, this is also happening in Europe, but Europe identifies the problem and counteracts, has the strength and will to do so. Just days ago during the celebrations of the anniversary of the unification of Germany, given the election results of the third political power, Federal President Steinmeyer said that today in Germany there are walls between our living environments. In his words, they arose between towns and the province, online and offline, between the poor and the rich, between the young and the old, on both sides of which people are hardly understood. He urged MPs to show that the Democrats have better solutions than those who abuse democracy and never allow for the return of nationalism. I'll just point out that the era requires that of us as well. No one can deceive society that there is no division and that we are walking towards better days when political messages of division and hatred are constantly being issued when opposition gives birth to aggression that is flooding us daily. We cannot continue unless we overcome the hatred and aggression within ourselves. This is why it is necessary to stop the opposition in order not to lose the motto. The Union makes the power, part of the coat of arms of Bulgaria, written on the National Assembly building before it becomes a motto and the European Presidency in the beginning of 2018. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Confrontation, division, and instillation of hatred must be denied in a firm way. [[a line from the MP Pavel Shopov]] of all pro-European and pro-Pro-Atlantic democratic and national responsible parties. The DPS has long insisted that the Bulgarian ethnic model be our national uniting cause to export peace, balance and harmony, peace and security. Let us work for Bulgaria to become and establish itself as a guarantor of stability in the region so as to overcome the geographical periphery and find a worthy place in the political core of Europe. The DPS has the determination, strength and will to counteract division and opposition, hatred, including the active manifestation of this hatred, to work for a decent life of all Bulgarian citizens and for the prosperity of Bulgaria. In an expression of our consistent policy to end division and opposition, to unify values and for responsible behaviour in the name of Bulgaria and Bulgarian citizens, our colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Members of the Commission on Religions and Human Rights are depositing their resignations from the Commission. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. We continue with the first item on our agenda today: REPORT OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON THE EXPERIENCE OF THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF A NEW TYPE OF AIRCRAFT AND PROJECT FOR THE REPORT DECISION. Yesterday the report was presented by the President of the Commission There are debates to be held. I'm finding them. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will try to talk about the conclusions that were presented in the Temporary Commission Report. I start with the most basic for me of them. The lack of political leadership and control of the process and the created regulatory vacuum create real conditions for distortion of the final results in the selection of a new type of combat plane. The interim committee finds with regret that the way in which the project management is implemented in the Ministry of Defence does not create the necessary clarity and indivisibility in terms of the responsibilities and powers of the structures involved in this process. This is the conclusion recorded in the Commission report. The big question, however, is: who is responsible for all this? My answer is: Minister Nenchev and the government Borisov 2. Now I'm going to argue about that. October 2014 by order of the Minister of Defence a project management of the process of acquiring a new aircraft was introduced. By order of 16 February 2015, Minister Nenchev as Head of the Project Management Board has been appointed General Radev and is as such responsible for all activities for the initiation, management and implementation of this Project. However, notice, in parallel with this, with Order No 045 of 2 November 2015, a working group is established again to Minister Nenchev, which aims to prepare and consult with the countries offering these multi-target fighters. This working group should prepare the Investment Expenditure Project and it should be submitted to the Council of Ministers and from there to the National Assembly. Notice, the task force begins consultations and negotiations with the parties offering such type of fighter fighters and evaluates their offers. In essence, it makes no sense to the project management principle introduced so far and the Project Management Board. The main objective of this working group is to circumvent General Radev because, notice, as Head of the Integrated Project he is not even included in its composition. However, one very important fact of the results of the working group is not commented in the Commission report, but it is: how the sum of 700 million. It's a billion dollars. 500?! This is the first time this number has ever appeared! How many old planes of 700 million? At one point they swelled to a billion and five hundred?! Another conclusion that is presented to us in the report: General Radev, of course, is accused of seeking to acquire greater powers and to assume the functions of a strategic leadership body................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Well, I ask: who appoints General Radev as chairman of the board, the management? The minister. Isn't the Minister the one who not only appoints but also determines the responsibilities of the Head? How is it that at some point General Radev is accused of exceeding his authority? As a basis we are quoted by General Radev, where, you see, he wanted more powers. And in this letter General Radev simply wants clarification of the functions and responsibilities, given this parallel of the structure of the management of the process with the working group, which takes essentially the activities of preparing the tenders. And now I come to the basic conclusion that you are trying to impose in the Report, and it is that the criteria are distorting the entire procedure and you are contesting the change of the required payment scheme, which becomes a primary mandatory criterion. But let's, ladies and gentlemen, take a look and see what the facts are. On 2 June 2016, the 43rd National Assembly voted on the Investment Expenditure Project. The BSP parliamentary group did not support this project, but I would like to remind you that there are many MPs from GERB who voted at the time. Point 5.2. of this Investment Expenditure Project very clearly states: "After coordination, payment is envisaged to be made as a combination of advance payment and payment after delivery for a period of six years and an indicative payment scheme has been proposed. Let's move on. A budget for 2017 was adopted by the Bulgarian Parliament on a proposal from the government of Borisov and you supported this budget. I'm opening the budget for 2017, point "Functions." Defense and security. For the implementation of the projects for modernization of the Bulgarian Army for the period 2017 - 2019 1 billion are planned. 122 million. lv. 683 of them are to replace MiG-29 with a new type of fighter, of which 231 million. for 2017, 226 for 2018, 226 for 2019 In a word, 200 million each year, as these 26 are for the support of the previous MiGs in the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. You know very well that the Ministry of Defence prepares the so-called "Programming Budgets" and guidelines for their implementation in a six-year period. There are precisely the same numbers that I'm talking about here. Then, ladies and gentlemen, since you recorded all this and accepted it, how do you want the senior military to disregard it? I'm moving on with my conclusions. On its own head, the Board of Governors changed the criteria and we didn't know about them. And you were almost, I listened to the Commission, misled. So I'm going to start quoting facts again. On 22 August 2016, the Defence Council decided to amend the RFP, the so-called request for a proposal to submit an offer and the Defence Council took part in the entire political leadership of the Ministry of Defence, headed by the Minister. Secondly, before me is the Report of the Commander of the Air Force General Tsanko Stoykov, who on 20 January was examined and submitted to the Defence Committee in the Forty-third National Assembly. In front of me is the transcript from the Commission meeting of 20 October 2016, where it is said: "The Commissioner briefed the members with the letter received by the Minister of Defence on the development of the implementation process of the Project "Acquiring a new type of combat plane" and the Report of the Commander of the Air Force General Tsanko Stoykov. After the Members of the National Assembly were acquainted with the two documents, a discussion took place, which decided to send the documents received to all members of the Commission by e-mail. Here are colleagues from GERB, who were then members of this Commission and colleague Gajev, and Admiral Manushev see. This question was then reported by the Minister "the whole situation was clear." I will allow myself to show what is written in General Tsanko Stoykov's report on the so-called "Payment " which has become the great drama of this Commission. Payment scheme - basic criterion set in 2012 with a weight ratio of 0,05. When updating the basic criteria in 2016, this criterion dropped due to the existence of an established payment scheme in the Investment Expenditure Project, voted by decision of the National Assembly of 2 June. The payment scheme is mandatory for all participants and does not appear to be an objective criterion. Third, on 1 December 2016 from this platform, Defence Minister Nikolay Nenchev responded, I quote: The request for the submission of a proposal on the Project "Acquiring a new type of fighter aircraft" was developed by the Air Force, with the project manager Colonel Dimitar Stoyanov and was adopted by the Project Management Board. The same was signed by me on 16 November 2016 and the next day was submitted to the Ministry of Economy for a subscription. From this tribune, Minister Nenchev says: it was signed by me. Finally, we arrive until 12 December 2016, when, with the signature of the two ministers, Minister Nenchev and Minister Lukarski, the proposal for a request was sent to the three countries. Those are the facts. And I ask: since one thing has been signed by the ministers, who is responsible for this? The Council of Ministers, his prime minister in the face then of Borisov and the majority behind him. With this Commission you wanted to aggravate Mr. Radev, but instead, you shot yourself because it is very clear that the political responsibility for the whole process was carried by the ministers in the cabinet Borisov 2 and the majority behind them. Perhaps it was important to have this Commission for one more thing. On page 24 of the Report, unknown how the following appears: "It was also found that at the end of February Bulgaria was offered a new plane, which is included in the approved financial framework of the Project. The offer was not considered on the grounds that it did not involve the armament of aircraft. This explanation is perplexing given that other candidates' offers are also unarmed, which is also not true, but I ask: in what way did this conclusion and fact be included in the Report? Has anyone made a request to make an offer to this company or to this country after I said that on 12 December 2016 the three candidates who were in the short shortlist on the basis of research, research, compliance with the set criteria were submitted offers? Or was this perhaps one of the objectives of setting up this Commission to legitimise this particular offer? With this report, I think you clearly say that there will be no modernization of the Bulgarian army. In one word, you lied once again! However, you transferred the responsibility for this from Prime Minister Borisov and the Council of Ministers to the Bulgarian Parliament. What I have put forward are only part of the arguments that give us reason not to support this report. Let the refusal of modernization of the Bulgarian army weigh on your conscience! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Hristov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I make the line. Today is the holiday of my city, of Stara Zagora, so: Happy holiday of all Stara Zagoras! [[Applause.]] And now for the line. Mr. Boychev, you were with us during all the meetings, you know how the Commission worked and how the conclusions were made. Regarding your claim that we are accusing... Can I talk about General Radev after...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u9	You can talk about General Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u10	...was talking about him? He wanted to increase his authority. Well, it's true! On 17 June 2016, a meeting of the Board for Project Management was held, where General Radev reported in a slide five of his presentation that there was no one to confirm the Methodology and the Mathematical Assessment Model. I mean, he's sure he's not the one who's gonna validate these documents, and he's putting them on the board, which should normally be the body that's standing over the Board of Project Management, the question of who's gonna confirm the documents? At the meeting it was answered by the Directorate of Legal and Normal Activities that the powers of the Board for Management of Portfolio of Projects do not include validating such documents. He was then given a written opinion by the Directorate-General for Legal and Regulatory Activities, confirming the Directorate's first opinion that there are no documents that allow him or the Board for Management of a Portfolio of Projects to confirm these documents. However, General Radev as Head of the Project Management Board confirmed both the Methodology and the Mathematical Assessment Model. That's not what I call embezzlement. You tell me what it is. That's what I'll talk about later in my speech. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] About the replacement for the criteria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u11	Your cue time is up, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u12	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u13	Then in the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u15	Thank you, too. Are there any other lines? Welcome to the National Representative Konstantin Popov, after him the People's Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Boychev, you rightly raised one question: how does the amount of a billion and a half appear? Yes, such a working group was appointed to hold consultations, they were held, and a large part of this working group, by the way, in which there was a representative of the Board for Project Management, I would like to stress this thing, held a meeting at the Ministry of Finance, where was also the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Ananiev. As always, when it comes to serious things that I've dealt with, all this has been reported, written. I would like to quote what has been written, said by the Ministry of Finance, that the defence ministry can rely on a billion and a half for a period of six years, with the first year being 26 million, the second year This was naturally written in detail, but in our proposals whether this should be the scheme is not given. Secondly, this scheme has been changed and you can see for yourself that it is different from what is written in this document and from what is written in the Investment Expenditure Project. Who, how, why was he changing this scheme, I can't tell you. Apparently, there were conversations between the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of Finance, the Project Management Board, and this scheme was found rational. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I would like to stress here one more very important thing that if this scheme and this financial framework for a billion and a half were not adopted, there would probably be only one candidate who could answer. This means that we have not lobbied for just one type of aircraft, on the contrary, included the others.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u17	Thank you. The third line is the MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Boychev, I have listened carefully to you, I have listened to the replicators, and I cannot disagree with your conclusion that in this report the only result is shooting the importers of the Report. Shots fired! One thing I do not agree with you is that this is a shot at the authority of the National Assembly because this Commission, looking back yesterday before us, and today the discussion has become an auction committee. In practice, you have reduced the National Assembly to some people who need to assess who made the better offer. Excuse me, but this discussion has been held since the formation of this Commission, that these powers belong to the Ministry of Defence and these powers belong to the Council of Ministers. The National Assembly is the authority that has to paraphrase all of this at the end. And you made us sit here like ordinary clerks, read order by order, read who was speaking. And I don't know, Mr. Boychev, did you notice this during the work of this Commission and in your statement just now? And why do we have to keep doing this shit we're doing here? The objective of the Commission and the report is extremely transparent. Very transparent! And there is no person - neither in the National Assembly, a MP, or an ordinary Bulgarian citizen, not knowing what the purpose of this Report is, namely to hit the Presidential institution because it is not elected by GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u19	Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u20	That thing was very clear. Yes! Because quoting repeatedly in the name of General Radev is for one purpose only. You know very well what function it is...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u21	He wasn't president then.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u22	Don't interrupt me, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u23	I'll cut you off. Of course I'm going to interrupt you, since you're talking about the president, I'm going to interrupt you. Of course I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u24	I replicate Mr. Boychev because he had weaknesses in his speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u25	Of course I'll interrupt you when you talk about President Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u26	There were weaknesses in his speech because the National Assembly was humiliated, again I say, until the status of an auction commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u27	By whom? Was Mr. Boychev humiliated?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u28	No, from the Commission...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u29	♪ 'Cause it's a line ♪ Do you know what a line is?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u30	Mr. Boychev dropped that fact and I'm telling him he dropped it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u31	You're making Mr. Boychev's line. He humiliated the National Assembly, you disagree with him?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u32	Mr. Glauchev, I don't have rhetoric with you right now. You're breaking the rules! I'm not doing Mr. Glauchev's line right now, I'm doing Mr. Boychev for the passes he made. PRESENT BREADYTER HEADCHEV: This is exactly what you are not doing at the moment. Thank you. [[(Noise and lines. (Applause)]] You have the floor for the back, Mr. Boychev. Anyone who talks about President Radev will be interrupted from now on. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria". Noise and lines.]] You can talk about General Radev, since he was of such quality back then. If you don't make a difference, I'm sorry about you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u33	Are these the new instructions, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u34	If you receive instructions, I do not receive instructions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u35	Your leader said so about a previous president when he said that he was the only one who could talk about President Parvanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u36	Mr. Boychev, you have the floor for the back!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u37	Mr. Hristov, I respect your efforts as Chairman of the Temporary Commission, you have made a lot of these to form this report, but I object to certain conclusions and statements in the report. As it is clearly said that the Chairman of the Board for Project Management.. General Radev aims to exceed his powers and quote his documents and letters to the Minister of Defence. I read them and I don't see a sentence anywhere, a word with which he wants other powers. All he commented on is clarification of responsibilities given this duality and this regulatory chaos, which is created with this parallel working group, which Nenchev creates. I object to that! There is no way, on the basis of Radev's letter, in which there is nothing like it, that the conclusion that he wants an increase, extension of his powers and to possess the process of managing the choice of a new type of fighter plane is stated. About General Popov's statement. Thank you, General Popov! In essence, you have confirmed what I am trying to bring up as facts that in the meetings you have had with the Ministry of Finance, you are given the framework and payment scheme there. Six years in a billion and a half. During all this time in this Commission, and here, I am constantly arguing. I see Mr. Tsvetanov in front of me, he is very active in explaining how the criteria have changed and how the payment scheme has become a mandatory criterion and this has broken the ranking. Well, how can you not see that in all the conversations the Ministry of Finance says that? You're voting on the Investment Expenditure Project. What can people do? Shall I ask Minister Goranov if he will agree with this payment you are offering? You know what the answer will be, don't you? What do you say we put the country in deficit because one of the candidates wants to get his planes paid right away? So thank you properly, Mr. Popov, for confirming that the Ministry of Finance has always had a permanent position for a deferred payment and it is embedded in the documents. Mr. Ivanov has made it clear to me, Mr. Ivanov, and another from the work of this Commission that in our country military technical expertise is sought and desired only when it coincides with the political decision that the Ministry of Defence has to take. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u38	Please don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u39	However, when you see that this does not coincide and they have a different opinion on the issue, then this is the beginning of this.. committees, investigations. We're watching! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Please do not exceed your authority beyond the regulations...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u42	The MPs or me?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u43	...because in our Rules, Mr. President, it is clearly and categorically written in art. 162, para. 1 that the President can remove for more than one sitting the most severe punishment, by the way... but not more than three meetings, a representative of the National Assembly, who insults the President, repeats the word of the National Assembly, members of the Council of Ministers and the President............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There were no insulting words from colleague Ivan Ivanov about it, and you took away his word.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u44	But I haven't suspended him from the hearing!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u45	He didn't insult the president to impose any punishment on him.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u46	You read me the punishment and suspension.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u47	Please stop censoring mad! If you want an example of insulting the President, see yesterday's minutes of how Mr. Todorov addressed the President, for which only the word was taken away from him, but was not removed from the Chamber. Please follow the rules! You cannot forbid the MPs to speak with regard to the President, the National Assembly, the Council of Ministers as long as they are not offended. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u48	I mean, you're calling me to remove Mr. Ivan Valentinov Ivanov because he insulted the National Assembly in his reply? Would you like me to introduce you to the shorthand to see what he says about the National Assembly, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u49	Yeah. Please tell us what Mr. Ivanov has insulted the National Assembly in so far as an institution can be offended, this is already a separate matter. It is written in the Rules, unfortunately for me, from a legal point of view, but specify what he has offended him with!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u50	Okay, I'll introduce you to the shorthand, but I ask you again: are you asking me to suspend him for more than one session to offend the National Assembly? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're welcome to join us in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u51	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Glauchev, I have the feeling that you purposely want to lower the debate by picking on the opposition, interrupting the opposition, not giving the opposition the opportunity to expose theirs and this is a targeted policy at the moment on your part. Please leave where you are right now. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] , let the deputies lead in your place, give the opposition the floor to speak these and do not frighten by eviction from the House, for the opposition's opinion is that this Commission is indeed pointless. And we're doing everything we can to prove that. That someone doesn't like the mention of President Radev, that's not our problem. That's your problem with the management. After all, we want to prove with our actions and conclusions that this Commission is really pointless. Its only purpose is to strike a concrete blow at the presidential institution and President Radev. That's what you're aiming for! And it was very clearly stated here by Mr. Tsvetanov, who began with attacks on the presidential institution a few months ago. But please do not interrupt the opposition, give them the opportunity to express their opinion and then, if you do not agree with anything, then say so, but not interrupt them and then say that time has stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u52	Mr. Stoynev, I told you I would interrupt anyone who ties President Radev to the report you made! [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] When the report says about General Radev, if you don't agree with me, then he wasn't president. Explain this factual situation and from then on we can argue. Personal explanation please, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u53	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev and Mr. Stoinev, you mentioned my name twice. I've never spoken before. What provokes this behavior of yours? I would like to tell you that there is a huge volume of work carried out by the Commission, which has been voted by the Bulgarian Parliament, and we are currently having a debate on the substance. I suggest, Mr President, that we concentrate on what we really need to do today, such as adopting and voting on the report. Because everyone was under the impression that you had some kind of defensive reaction not to mention General Radev, but nowhere in the report it appears. You name it and place it as some sort of point of support. Just to tell you that right now in our country, from everything that's happening, with all these procedures that we're commenting on and that have gone into public space, you've made a jetgate. [[Applause from GERB.]] You provoked him and it became so that it was already pointed out that our state is doing some kind of procedure that, in one form or another, serves other interests. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We are a NATO state. We must have a strategic partnership and when there are objective facts, they must be heard. So don't drag us into that jetgate you set up by bringing the president into it. [[Applause from GERB. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u54	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u55	He's in conflict of interest. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u56	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What am I in, Mr. Toshev?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u58	Please don't come in here and talk to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u59	Say it, say it. No, no, let's say it, put it in the transcript.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u60	Do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u61	What am I in?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u62	Mr. Svilensky, I'll take your word for it if...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u63	No, you won't take my word...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u64	I'll take it from you for sure! [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u65	Mr. Chairman, I'm taking the lead procedure. When you want to be the principal president of this National Assembly, be principled throughout the conduct. Mr. Tsvetanov took a personal explanation procedure. And I didn't understand what Mr. Tsvetanov was insulted, offended, humiliated. [[GERB noise and lines]] , how it was explained, and he began to tell you what was said in the Report, what was written.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u66	Twice he was mentioned by name.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u67	Namely and personally when it's affected. Yesterday I set an example with a colleague who was affected. I don't see Mr. Tsvetanov being affected today. You've just been given the name. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u68	What do you mean, it's not...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u69	Mr. Chairman, please follow the rules! I will remind you that your seat at the back of this platform is thanks to four votes voted on your resignation, and the probability that these four votes will be lost is very close. [[Noise and lines by GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]] So follow the Rules of Procedure so that you can be president of the National Assembly for a long time. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u70	Whether in the back or in the front is a matter of perspective. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Please leave the stands!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u71	No, no, you're insulting me now. I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u72	I'll take your word for it, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u73	Mr. Chairman, you will not insult me!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u74	What have I done to offend you?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u75	Is it the front or the back? [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u76	You told me I was in the back of that stands. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Look where I am!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u77	Where are you? Aren't you behind... [[Laughter, lines and excitement from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u78	Get out of the stands! [[Heckling]] Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct for a slight extension of what my colleague Svilenski said. Yes, Mr. Tsvetanov's first sentence was really what he was concerned about, then followed a statement on the substance of the report, which you should not have allowed, but this is your decision. That's how you demonstrate whether you're objective at all or not. I leave it to your conscience to decide. I have a question for you so there won't be any more collisions. If, in our speeches, we use the word "General Radev" today, President of the Republic of Bulgaria, to make it clear which General Radev we are talking about, will you interrupt us again?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u80	Of course not.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u82	You've already used it. In his first speech Mr. Boychev began to use this very combination "General Radev". He was the first to start using it, and I wasn't interrupting it at all if you noticed. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We must pay tribute to all participants in the integrated programming teams, with different names over the years, for the huge volume of work done, which is also unique for Bulgaria. I would like to clarify that this process has started somewhere in 2004 - 2005, but the Commission has examined the period from 2010 to this day, because in this period it has started actively developing documents and the whole process. A permanent problem with this process is the shortage of funds. Therefore, it is also confirmed that, after assessing the budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2012, a decision is taken not to initiate a procedure for the purchase of a new multi-purpose fighter. In 2014, it is estimated that 700 million can be provided for the period 2014. BGN, as well as for 2016 the amount of investment costs increased to a billion and a half, which shows new opportunities of the economy and the country to solve this major problem. The Commission report, as well as the Institute of Defence Report, notes that the type of aircraft is not yet determined, whether multi-purpose or air patrol only. Since the beginning of 2004, the concept of multi-purpose fighter was very clear and accurate. The new multi-target fighter had to replace MiG-21 and MiG-29 fighters, as well as Su-25 attack planes. The aim was a multi-purpose fighter to perform all the basic type tasks that perform the listed Russian planes just now. Tasks such as Air Polysing or Air Patrol Close Air Support Those who insist or lobby for an airplane for air patrol only, honourable Members, behind these intentions, sees the idea of lobbying them for an old, second or third use plane. The options for subsequent modernisation and purchase of Bombo's intelligence weapons will come out dearly to the Bulgarian taxpayer and this should be taken into account in some future actions when a specific decision is made for which type of aircraft. The report sets out the different changes from the Steering Committee 2010, the Project Management Board 2014 and the Project Management Board 2015. In practice, the problems start from this period: 2015 - 2016. The lack of a real working body in the strategic management of the process and the way of implementing the project management in the Ministry of Defence has led to a discrepancy of responsibilities, powers, activities and deadlines for their implementation in terms of the acquisition of a combat plane. The lack of clear rules calls into question the legitimacy of a number of key documents. The question arises, ladies and gentlemen of the government, who was the principal of the Ministry of Defence in the period 2014 - 2016? Whose responsibility is this mess at the Department of Defense? Wasn't Minister Nikolay Nenchev from the government Borisov 2? Dear colleagues, the delay in selecting multi-purpose fighter appears to have an extremely adverse effect on the Air Force and the Bulgarian Army. In order to speed up this process of clarifying the truth and making the most correct decision, the Parliamentary Group of the........ the Movement for Rights and Freedoms............................................................... [[Applause from GERB.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In his speech Mr. Simeonov addressed a question which I could not ask to Mr. Boychev, the two questions coincide, and he is: who is responsible? During his meeting, you know perfectly well that the then Minister of Defence said: "I bear the political responsibility and have fully trusted what the specialists offer me. " - Who is responsible: the one who signs, or the one who prepares the documents? Who is responsible for the documents? Who filed the papers? You know very well, so I'm going to ask you: who was preparing the documents for the defence minister's signature and who is responsible for what these documents contain? Who was the chairman of the board? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u86	Are there any other lines? Mr. Simeonov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Hristov! Of course, each document is developed by a team of specialists from different areas. Moreover, these documents were developed not only by specialists of the Ministry of Defence, but also by the SANS, by the Military Information and by the Ministry of Economics, there was a specialist, so many people put their signatures on it, but the main signature is on the one who places and confirms. He has full responsibility. He's not relieved of his responsibility that someone may have misled him. These are legal cases in which I will not enter, but in the end as principal of the Ministry of Defense he is responsible. As is the current Defence Minister, if a multi-purpose fighter is now elected by signing his signature, he will be fully responsible for all the actions and documents offered to him for validation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u88	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Todorov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a member of the Temporary Committee, I would like to concentrate the attention of both colleagues and the media on something that we found in the work with the secret and unsecret information that the Commission had access to. What we understand is that not President Radev, General Radev is a man who is not a friend of the truth. On 16 June 2014, he wrote supporting points to the then-service Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski associated with one supplier. The support points are in relation to the company SAAB, a producer of the company "Gripen." As a former MEP from Burgas Atanas Zafirov expressed himself, these are not flying documents. These are the documents. [[Shows them.]] Any one of us who asked could have found them. In this document on June 16th, I say again, 2014 General Radev, not President Radev, who is the head of the integrated project team, writes the following: In connection with Mr. Plamen Oresharski's upcoming meeting with the President and Executive Director of the company SAAB, Sweden, I am sending you a reference on the proposal to Bulgaria for acquisition of a user, as well as exemplary point of reference. I don't know if the project team leader should be making support points for the office prime minister, especially for one company that could be a supplier. Here are the supporting points. [[Shows.]] Those aren't flying leaves. Tell Atanas Zafirov when you see him next time. General Radev, on 19 May this year in New York, told BNT correspondent Irina Nedeva that he had never issued an opinion on Game's over! We understand that General Radev is not a friend of the truth. I won't argue with anyone if they say he's a sworn liar. There may be such interpretation. [[Replications, noise, shouts from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS. The line from the MP Dragomir Stoinev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u90	Mr. Todorov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u91	General Radev has allowed himself to call the Commission the 'Lobistics'. We just proved there's someone else who's a lobbyist. It's not us. This man began his career as a general or after his generalisation with...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u92	Mr. Todorov! We are discussing the report of the Temporary Commission. Please go back to the subject. You're discussing General Radev for now. We understand your position. Please return to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u93	Among the other documents we found related to the report is a secret cipher sent by our embassy to Washington to the president's administration and cabinet chief Ivo Hristov, who still has no access to classified information. Now I want you to listen very carefully to what I'm saying. Two weeks ago we held a special press conference at which we announced this information that Ivo Hristov, without having access to classified information, read this cipher. [[Replyings, shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]] A team of DANS has been working for ten days in the presidency.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u94	What does this have to do with the Commission report?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u95	Now I'm going to say the most important thing. There are documents destroyed in the presidency that have been detected by the DANS team. These documents are related to reading this cipher by a person who has no access and this is called Ivo Hristov. [[Noise, exchange of lines between MPs from BSP for Bulgaria.]] When the DANS report comes out, you'll see that the entire file between the Foreign Ministry and the presidency was destroyed there, and then someone will have to explain. Then someone will have to explain who destroyed them. Dimitar Stoyanov, the chief secretary of the presidency, who most insolently appears on TV and, like his mentor, sprinkles epithets and determines who is what, is the person who will have to answer. I'm hoping that the prosecution, who assigned this inspection to the DANS, will sanction this man for the destroyed documents on the cipher and this file. Finally, the report is very important because it is about spending a billion and a half leva. We see that General Radev, not President Radev, in his general's amplification, has a particular affinity to appoint his lovers to a second contract... [[(A stormy reaction from the BSP for Bulgaria................)...............................................................................)]] The difference is only in scale.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u96	Mr. Todorov! I'll take your word for it, Mr. Todorov! [[The President turns off the microphones.]] Colleagues, please! Mr. Todorov, I have repeatedly asked you to return to the subject. I'm sorry to interrupt. That's not the point. [[National Representative Anton Todorov speaks on off microphones.]] I'm sorry, I don't have that kind of vision. Come in, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm taking a line from Mr. Todorov's statement. Mr. Todorov, you must be sincere in your speech. Each of the ministers present announced that meetings were held with all countries. You must be honest and when you say how, why, as you claim, these points are given to Prime Minister Oresharski. The meeting was requested by the Swedes. The Chief of Staff is requesting all documentation regarding the battle plane. I ask the question: who is this prime minister who will go to a meeting without getting appropriate documentation on the particular plane? On the contrary, it's bad when you go to a meeting and they give you pointers if you have to change something. That's what I'm gonna end up with. Yesterday we had a debate when we were defending the identity of a representative of our people, a colleague of ours. We are talking here about the actions of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. When we defend someone, we talk about the person, because the president also has a family, he has morals, he has dignity. Yesterday we didn't talk about actions, we talked about the man Delyan Dobrev. Today, on the contrary we are talking about the actions of Rumen Radev. That's no way to humiliate anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u98	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Is there another line? Here you are, Mr. Todorov. You have the right to the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would stress once again that this is not about any obscenity of the President's personality. This is about facts. It's not so much about whether or not he's been writing back-up points. It's on his conscience. The point is, he lied. He said he didn't write back points.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u100	Opinion! There's a difference.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u101	Don't try, we won't get into an etymological argument about what is an opinion, what is a supporting point, what is a reference. Did he write about the Grimpen? He's been writing! Did he deny writing? Deny it! So he lied. The nation's visionary has no right to lie. He'll lie about it today, he'll lie about something else tomorrow. I hear a toss from the auditorium that he was probably motivated. Yeah, he must have been motivated by Rippen in some way. And do you know how motivated he is? [[A stormy reaction in BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u102	Don't! Mr. Todorov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u103	Do you know how?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u104	This is outrageous! Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u105	Mr. Todorov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u106	Motivated by a pat on the shoulder. He didn't take $5 million. Don't think about it. With a pat on the shoulder. That's...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u107	Mr. Todorov, are you done?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u108	He was motivated by a pat on the shoulder. How can that be defamed? [[A stormy reaction in BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u109	Thank you. Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u110	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we are discussing a report by a Commission, the results of the work we have predicted before it was established. Colleagues from GERB! Today, with this report and with the previous speech, you have proved the rightness of this thesis. It is exactly what I warned: bantering with General Radev today a president, and an attempt to avoid responsibility from a thoughtless, financially unpaid, strategically wrong decision of the National Assembly of June 2016 on this investment expenditure. I repeat, I said it would be a fling with General Radev today President of the Republic of Bulgaria, and an attempt to run away from responsibility. Now I'm going to make a little correction. The correction is about the banter. I strongly stress that this is no longer a joke, especially after the previous speech. The masks are down! Today, this report is an element of a full-scale war, colleagues who are leading it, with the President, who currently has the highest rating in the country, and perhaps that is the only reason that does not allow you to sleep peacefully. Mr. Chairman, if you'd like to extend the time. In fact, that is also the reason, as I said, for this war. I think my fellow Members, who spoke in this favor and the previous speaker, have argued well enough, who only proved the point of war. I will only allow myself once again to disprove the unlawful interference of the Head of the Board for Project Management when changing the methodology. Firstly, as has already been repeatedly stressed: he has executed ours, the National Assembly, a decision for a deferred payment. Secondly, as Head of the Board in the amended management structure of this project, he was obliged to do so. Otherwise, colleagues from GERB, if you hadn't done it, you would have blamed him today why he didn't do it. Because you don't care about the truth, it's about the war you're fighting right now. It is important that you vex the man, because perhaps you hope that one of you, your leader, may be able to take this place. He won't borrow it! You can't! He didn't grow up with it! [[Voice in GERB.]] As for the independence of the only expert report that is supposedly used is supposed to be expert, I would like to ask: can such a report be expert when the professor who drafts it is directly dependent on one of the parties to the conflict? When he and Mr. Tagarev and Minister Shalamanov heard three consecutive sessions of the six we held represent one side of the problem. When they were connected and involved in a research team of a non-governmental organization, they had common publications and Tagarev and Georgiev were also administratively dependent. Can this report be independent and can it be the basis for a report that we are currently discussing? By the way, why did you limit yourself to this report? Why didn't you call in the experts who were preparing the methodologies and others to ask them what their motives were? No, because you weren't interested. You were interested in messing with it, and now, as I see it, to fight a war with General Radev today President of the Republic of Bulgaria. As offensive as it may be to you, President of the Republic of Bulgaria! Not you. We raised him! And we chose it! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So much for the war with the president. As for the attempt through this Report to escape responsibility from the reckless, financially unpaid and strategic wrong decision of the National Assembly from June 2016, to remind: in the discussion of the project then, in June 2016, the national representative from the parliamentary group of the BSP left Bulgaria and Atanas Zafirov in the 43rd National Assembly said from this tribune, I quote: No Boyko Borisov, who said the same thing today, then he said: "You, one year later, have matured that he was right. Quoting: I have always wondered how this government manages to sell illusions and to do so in a way that is able to deceive and defraud and see everything in the years of transition citizens of the country. Today the June 2016 issue is about. The National Assembly is about to sell another illusion that poor and robbed Bulgaria is able to buy squadron planes and build warships for billions. We are ready on behalf of the sovereign to give yet another indulgence to a political leadership of the Ministry of Defence.................who was then, Minister Nenchev, you remember.... which after the inevitable failure of this yet another adventure will be conveniently covered under the wing of collective irresponsibility. That is exactly what this Commission has done, and that is why it is made to cover the political leadership under the wing of collective irresponsibility and to wash us, as Parliament, once again as soap, the hands of this incompetent authority. How else could I, except as irresponsible, continue Mr. Zafirov's quote, determine the intention of his going-away management to give two and a half billion for the purchase of second-hand aircraft? The difference in funds should perhaps be directed, if we make another decision, to other vital sectors: health, education, social work (something that we are hearing now, from you at the moment, from your mouth. Yours! Not ours! I took the liberty of making a reply to Mr. Zafirov, and I quote again: "When we talk that the money is not enough, we should have a prioritization even in the field of defence. Where are the top risks, where are those thin places that could violate national security? I did not hear what the sea and air borders of Bulgaria are more risky than the land. Why in all the decisions we make, nothing is said about Land Forces, although they are now the backbone. That's what I was quoting, that's what I said then, a year ago and more. That's what you're saying today. With today's date, based on the State of the Armed Forces and Defence Report of the Republic of Bulgaria, I can only add that this spine, if not broken, is at least traumatized very badly. I remind you, then from those who voted from BSP left Bulgaria for the investment expenditure, only one was for the investment expenditure, the rest of us were against. Colleagues, as a young party, I understand that you need time to learn. You may not always respond adequately to the challenges of the moment, but still more than a year to realize that you were wrong then, it seems to me a very long period. It's kind of a slow development, I think. I don't know.! And this slowness in your development is disastrous for Bulgaria. Because, on the one hand, it leads to you making inadequate decisions for the state, as in 2016, on the other, it destroys our poor international authority as you do with this report, not us. You initiated this committee. Don't blame us. You made the lobbying impressions, not us. And that's why I'm going to end up with the following, no matter how much you yell out of your seats and protest if you don't like it. In fact, I told you: the masks have fallen, and with yesterday's blaming of your leader, you are already the last act...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u111	Mr. Ermenkov, there's no connection.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u112	...and the final fall of the curtain of the tragedy is only due to happen. [[GERB lines.]] Yeah, that's it. And you, as incompetent actors, will not get applause.....
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u113	Mr. Ermenkov, I'm making a remark about insulting MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u114	...and you'll get boos. Thank you. [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u115	- What's the line? What are these calls from the gym? Please, we're not on the lawn. Here's a line, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u116	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ermenkov, you're wrong the way you put it earlier. You said you raised him, you chose him. I can tell you that the Bulgarian voters chose it because the voters who elected Rumen Radev in the second round were 2 million. 63,000. the voice. And every time you did your maximum organization, you reached not more than 950 thousand. I want to tell you that we really need to be very careful when we speak on the presidential institution. Whether we like it or not, I believe that each of us, when the elections ended, acknowledged the election result. And each of us knows that the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Rumen Radev has a term of five years. From now on, everything you say on the part of the BSP is only creating the bad image of President Radev, because all we have as a goal in this Commission is for the truth to come out. Because Bulgarian taxpayers have to pay a billion and a half for the purchase of airplanes. And when there is such a tendency, such sharpness in speaking on your part, believe that another feeling is created in people. Let's be more careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u117	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Second line? People's representative Vladimir Toshev. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] Please, Mr. Stoinev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three questions for Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Ermenkov, three questions: First of all, how many times is one and a half billion more than 30 million? Because yesterday we were arguing about how some procedures that were conducted according to all legal requirements and you had no problem with that, two and a half hours, how moral it is, how immoral it is. We're talking about a billion and a half that the Assembly has to decide on how to spend it, and you're saying it was a fling with someone. Secondly, when you question Mr. Georgiev as a specialist, tell me how many specialists there are in Bulgaria who can understand this matter and give expert opinion? And which of them did not participate in certain stages in the work of selecting a new fighter plane for aviation? And thirdly, because you are constantly talking about Mr. Minister in 2016 to tell me who was Minister from 26 May 2013 to 6 August 2014 and what was done under the procedure for selecting a new fighter plane for aviation during this period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u119	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Ermenkov, I'd like you to answer the lines for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u120	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, first of all, thank you for the line. She once again proved my point with which I began that the idea of this report is not to have truth but to have war with the President. Otherwise, in your reply, you would have refuted my arguments regarding the Report and the conclusions, and you were talking to me about the President at all. And, secondly, as for the warning to speak carefully about the President, yes, I completely agree. Not only carefully, we need to speak and respectfully, but please don't point that line at me, I didn't insult the president with anything, take it to your MP. Make it to your MP, who, out of this tribune, allowed himself to speak unseemly things, and it seems to me that too larges was the behaviour of the President of the National Assembly not to remove it, because he did it twice today, not once. Otherwise, Mr. Toshev, I expected you to come out and because I said that we were against it, and you were about this Report, then you were going to give me a line and prove to me why you and your colleagues at the Defense Commission were so fiercely defending this investment project, and now all of a sudden it turns out that this investment project isn't who it should be. It's not the planes and the ships that are the military that are important, what we were telling you. I agree again it is good that you are listening to us, it is good that you understand what we are saying, we will only ask you to do it a little faster, if you can within a month and not a year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u121	You haven't answered any of the questions, Tasco.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u122	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Please order in the court! Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u123	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, from the long presence in the power of some of you, I assume that they have already come to an idea of what the number "billion and a half" means. It's a huge number! However, when a word is added to this number, which expresses an equivalent in some currency, levs, dollars or euros, it becomes even more frightening and starts to excite the thoughts, dreams and hopes of some to get their hands on commissions of that number expressed in the currency concerned. Here, I would like to say two things. Firstly, we believe that if such money is decided at all to be spent on airplanes, this should be done with a maximum consensus in society and in parliament, not with 121 votes. Secondly, which perhaps should be the first, we believe that in principle the state has much more pressing needs in different areas of its economy, where this money can be spent in times more effectively to improve the economic situation of the state, the business climate and the well-being of the Bulgarian people. So we from the political party.Volja..................... that money and a bunch of others that are intended for such ineffective activities, to be left and invested much more effectively in Bulgarian healthcare, education, justice system, in our children, in sport. And when we all make sure that we become rich like Saudi Arabia, then we start spending on unnecessary and meaningless and probably useless to Bulgaria because they will not provide our security, military planes, helicopters, ships and so on. So I think it becomes clear that with one talking it is clear that no planes will be bought. This is a talk in which only to simply use everyone to say their points of support, to use the more rude to bring insults and insults against their political opponents. Therefore, once again, for the last time, I urge you to stop this circus, to stop these procedures and to say that this money is much more necessary for Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people in other areas and to redirect them there, to spend it effectively and usefully for the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u124	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Are there any lines? I won't. To speak, the people's representative Cornelia Ninova. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u125	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs of the ruling majority! What you're doing, however you veil it, is a war against the president's institution. It started at a press conference by the chairman of your parliamentary group, in which he accused the president of lobbying and hinted of corruption. Then followed the creation of this Commission, which you will use as a bat against President Radev. You will receive our resistance for two reasons. One's party, the other's government. The party room. We raised, supported and worked towards the election of President Radev. I thank those Bulgarians who are not members of BSP, but believed that BSP offers them a worthy president who can change Bulgaria. Thank you to these Bulgarians as well. But we stand behind President Radev as a party and apply to this support a single criterion... does he fulfil the commitments he made to the Bulgarian citizens during the election campaign? And in a year he hasn't given up a millimeter of these commitments. He has our support. The second reason is the state's. You are using this Commission and the entire institution Parliament for war with another institution of the President to clear Boyko Borisov's path to the presidential post. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u126	Mrs. Nino, tell me, what does your statement have to do with the Commission report so far?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u127	Therefore, we will not allow you with this Commission to use one institution against another institution for party purposes. This is one of the reasons why the President called you the lead singers. Of course, Boyko Borisov did not stay further back, called "as." I therefore address both of them: Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, despite the battles we are fighting, we live in a parliamentary republic and are not found here. These are the people in the country who determine the way of Bulgaria. Parliament in a parliamentary republic. But there's a difference between us, Mr. President. These people on the right want to use this parliament to fight you. We will not allow it to destroy statehood because of Boyko Borisov's personal interests on his way to the presidential institution. This is the difference between us and this is the alternative that Bulgarian citizens can see and choose. We're right behind you, Mr. President. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u128	Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope Mrs. Ninova answers now because Mr. Ermenkov doesn't want to. First, the Bekvokal and the Bekkokalist are different jobs. Explain it to the right person if you're talking to each other already. Second of all, Mr. Chairman, I don't want to be interrupted. Since Mrs. Ninova does not speak at all about the Temporary Commission Report, the subject of which is quite different from the presidential institution and, colleagues, I would like to tell you that in order to reach these 25 pages of the Temporary Commission Report, 320 clear and 56 secret documents from four or five ministries and agencies have been processed. What is being said here yesterday, yesterday the colleague announced awards from this tribune that he would hand them out I don't know why you are, I want to tell you that the same can be done if somewhere in these 25 pages you see a hint of presidency, president or General Radev. There's no such thing. But since we were talking about presidential campaigns, who supported who and how did he organize them, my question to Mrs. Nino in this line is as follows: how is the campaign financed by the organizer of this campaign of President Radev? How is it funded? How were the donations collected and from whom were the donations collected and there was flu money inside? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u130	Here you go, Mr. Bikov, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Ninova! Two committees were set up in the summer. One was for the NDK, and the other one was for the NDK. You said it was a declaration of war to the President and you wanted it very badly. I see the president managed to get involved in your opposition line and also conspired about war, about battles. And the truth is, this Commission is really dealing with a billion and a half. The NPC Commission was talking about one million, two million, three million, nine million debt, and you were extremely careful. Here I remember Mr. Boychev, the other members of the BSP. They claimed that the state had been robbed, that the state had failed because of these few million, opaque spending, bad. NDK CEO resigned and is indicted today. When we make a Commission to check how a billion and a half are spent not by Mr. Radev, you yourself say: "There was a government, there were ministers, there were different groups involved. Same thing! Before you hear experts and so on. Now you're talking about this war between the institutions again. We do not want a war between the institutions, but we want transparency. And if we say, let's take it as some rule that mentions Mr. Radev's name in vain, let him be punished if they want to shoot us. Well, he's human. He's neither a saint nor a god. He is the President of Bulgaria, but he is human. He's not a man of God. He must have been wrong in his life once. Maybe as head of the Air Force, he's ever gone wrong, made a mistake? We don't think of him as God. If your party has accepted it, it's doing him a bad favor. Because you, claiming to be at war with him, are doing him the bad favor of shortening his field of action. GERB is one million and a hundred thousand people. You are at the moment saying to him: "Be at war with these one million and one hundred thousand Bulgarians. That's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u132	Time's up, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u133	Thank you, too. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u134	Thank you. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u135	Colleague Toshev, as regards funding, please contact the Court of Auditors. There are rules and rules in this country. That's where the report is. Check them out. Ask them. It's official and uploaded. This is not where we need to talk about funding if you're going to follow the laws of the state. As far as the rest of it goes. All this time, you claim that the President was not the subject of the Report and that his name was not mentioned at all inside, and all the speeches you made on his name. So there's something here. Make sure you specify what you're doing. As far as the committees are concerned. Mr. Bikov, you set up a committee for the National Palace of Culture because of the public scandal, but I ask you why you didn't vote against our proposal. Then why did you vote against............................................ and say............................................................................................................................................................................................................... So your argument is not serious. However, another is serious and is still state-owned. You say the president is human. He's not chosen and so forth, whoever he is. Now it's Mr. Radev, another time it'll be someone else. But there is a Constitution and laws in this country, and they say Parliament cannot exercise parliamentary control over the president. So once again with this Commission you show that for you rules, Constitution, laws have no meaning. The only important thing is your personal, your party battle and the clearing of Boyko Borisov's field to the presidential institution. Against this unprincipledness and illegalness we will always stand against. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. I agree that Parliament cannot exercise parliamentary control, but the President, when performing this function. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u137	Mr. President, in the manner of conduct, I asked for a procedure because you admitted, although Mrs. Ninova is President of the Parliamentary Group and spoke about Constitution, laws and morals, she violated the Rules of the National Assembly and the debate on the subject of the Temporary Committee Report, she made a political statement, which is on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. There was no connection between her and the Temporary Commission Report. I therefore insist that her speech be counted as a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, not as a statement on the Report, and I call really on you when it comes to morality, Mrs Ninova, and on compliance with regulations and laws, to respect you, even though you are the chairman of a parliamentary group!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u138	So you, Mr. Angelov, want us to extend the speaking time of the Parliamentary Group? That's what you suggested. Mr. Popov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u139	You won't mention the president!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u140	Please, Mr. Toshev, don't call from the spot! Don't call from the spot, Mr. Toshev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sure Mr. Toshev knows what I'm going to say because he knows why this Commission was created. Honourable Members of Parliament, Mr. Chairman, the mandate of this Commission was to study the procedure for selecting a new type of fighter plane for our aviation. I strongly argue that this Commission has gone beyond the scope of the mandate, the scope of its powers, which have been given here by the National Assembly, because it has allowed itself, without having this mandate by Parliament, to give a recommendation. To give a recommendation for the return of this procedure without having any indication and motives on how this return will affect both Bulgaria's image and financially. And this was done because of the objectives of this Commission, which sounded here and they are really two main ones. The first is really a blow to General Radev. The second is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers to come to the National Assembly. The use of the National Assembly, on the one hand, as a copy against the President, the erosion of institutional responsibility and the National Assembly to be used as a kind of shield to the Council of Ministers. You don't need the expertise, dear governors! And it was seen in the Commission, and it was seen here in plenary. You just needed a specific type of fighter plane. You just had to write it down for sure in the recommendation, return the procedure, write it down, and everything would be quite peaceful for you. It must be clear one more thing that you, the honourable rulers, basically gave up the reform that you were defending the modernization of the Bulgarian army. How many of the current members of this Commission, which was set up on the occasion of the new type of combat plane, were members of the Defence Committee at previous national meetings? How many of you accepted and voted on the report in which the procedure was described? How many of you voted on the budget of the country where the financial parameters of this procedure were also set? A budget drawn up by which minister? From your minister. You, blinded by the desire to hit the President, have practically devalued your own competence and responsibility, as well as that of the Council of Ministers. This is working. One more question. Which minister put his signature on it, approving the procedure? In whose government was Minister Nenchev? Where were you then, esteemed rulers? This committee, I think, is a bad scenario, even worse. That proves yesterday's and today's behavior of Mr. Todorov. And yesterday, and today he here from this tribune gave yet another proof of what we are talking about, the attitude and the attempt to strike against the President. I think, Mr. President, if you want to accept it as a procedure in the manner of conduct, you were not here then, when Mr. Todorov spoke here from this tribune, but I think that after this speech the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office should self-serving. Have him self-sit and ask Mr. Todorov a few questions. How did Mr. Todorov have access to classified information? How did Mr. Todorov know about a SANS operation in the Bulgarian Presidency because he said that here? How does he know about such an operation? Is such an operation even possible? Where and who decrypted his secret cipher? How did he get access to that information? This, Mr. President, is not only a matter of criminal liability, but also a matter of national security, and I am sure that you will send the minutes of today's session to the Attorney General to take account of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? Here you go. The line and speech in the same way affects the time of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u143	Mr. Chairman, Admiral Manushev wanted to ask me something. Please translate it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u144	Please, Mr. Manushev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u145	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, I will be brief and replicate my colleague Popov for the fact that the Bulgarian Air Force really needs a new type of combat plane. And I will allow myself, in relation to Mr. Toshev's claims, that there is not a single secret document in the report that mentions the President, is the document in question quoted by a colleague here by the head of diplomatic representation to the President's administration, being declassified and is it the subject of the Commission's work? This is also the attention of the Attorney General. And more. This same fellow Member of ours said a long time ago that he had a whole development in the public space of SANS, in terms of action with a colorful spionage for the benefit of another country and his arrest in front of a foreign embassy. I ask, where does he have such a development when they are classified for a period of 30 years, and this happened not 30 years ago, but much less? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. Are there any other lines? Here's a line. And a third line from the MP Emil Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u147	Mr. Chairman, I would like to say to my colleague Popov and to my colleague Velkov, I have mentioned this to him - 320 requests and 56 secret documents have been processed. However, I can show you my personal document, with which I have permission specifically for this Commission of Natovski's admission to the top secret. All Members of the Commission shall have this clearance. And that is clear to colleagues, and colleague Popov is a member. The other is that mentioning the document by colleague Todorov, by colleague Popov, does not mean that he was quoted in the report. Its contents have nothing to do with the contents of the report. So let us not confuse things and deceive colleagues and people who are watching us, listening to us, or who reflect us in the media. There is nothing qualified in the Temporary Commission Report that affects state, national and military secrecy! This has to be very clear. Let's get to those 25 pages. They work very carefully, they are written very carefully, they are read several times, they are edited and nothing that is not for use by all Bulgarians is not written in the Report. Don't suggest things that have nothing to do with the truth. Because I'm doing Mr. Popov's line, don't be a lawyer to things you don't understand!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u148	Third line, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, the classified information that has been received is now available to the entire Commission. The unclassified one, too. From the very beginning, as President of the Commission, I have ordered the collaborator to keep a list of the documents received for consultation, and you all know that classified information is obtained for signature. Mr. Chairman, please don't read this list. [[Shows it.]] Look at him, I'm showing him in a hurry to make sure there's barely any people. If you, Mr. Popov, had read the classified information, your name would have been here. I owe everyone one explanation because there was talk of the facts and data being exported from the classified information list. Everything that has been published in the Report is agreed with the Office "Protecting the Information " the list, the cited documents, and is authorised by it to be cited in the Report. [[Heckling]] I understand what you're talking about, but in the second part of your speech there was a hint of how you knew. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u150	It's not from there.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u151	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Before Mr. Popov's duvet, to announce that our guests on the balcony are a group of athletes from Cherven Bryag. [[Applause.]] You have the floor for the back. [[GERB lines.]] It wasn't mentioned by name. There was no roll call. I followed carefully...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u152	Thank you. I mentioned it as a matter of fact, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u153	If you mentioned it, it's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u154	I mentioned it "let there be an opportunity for a personal explanation and really explain it because in the lines, I did not say anything about the report, but I asked a question and it is to Mr. Todorov and the President of the National Assembly, because he is here talking about a SANS operation in the Presidency, which has nothing to do with the Commission and the Report. He's talking about a secret cipher that I also don't know has anything to do with the Commission's work. That's why I asked that question here. Mr. Todorov may, in a personal explanation, provide answers to these questions. I am glad that, in essence, these statements that I made here, there were virtually no lines, which means that you agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u155	Thank you, Mr. Popov. After a reference from the shorthand is definitely not mentioned by name Mr. Todorov, but it just was, so please come in for a personal explanation. [[GERB lines.]] No one has ever mentioned it by name.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Bulgarian Communists don't talk! They have no right! [[(Radio and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u157	Please, Mr. Todorov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u158	So each of us in this Commission has NATO top cosmic access to specific information. So there is no problem here in this situation. Secondly, I have informed DXI, DANS and the Attorney General about this problem.......................that they work there.................................................. So much for the second question. And on the third question, the person Velkov doesn't want to speak, because now I'm reading a medical certificate here. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria, DPS, laughter in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u159	Please, Mr. Todorov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u160	Slavcho Velkov certified eighty...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u161	Please, Mr. Todorov, please! [[National Representative Anton Todorov speaks on off microphones.]] It's clear. [[Replyings between MPs from BSP for Bulgaria and GERB.]] Please, Mr. Todorov! Mr. Todorov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u162	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u163	I can't give you a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u164	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u165	In the manner of conduct, but if you address another person rather than me, I will take your word away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u166	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, I will only address you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u167	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u168	The question was specific... where does a MP have the content of a secret cipher from a Bulgarian ambassador to the President's Administration, which has nothing to do with it, as you say with the Commission?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u169	I can't answer that question!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u170	Well, you want us to address you, don't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u171	You're talking to me, aren't you? Yeah, and I can't answer that!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, find some form to answer this question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u173	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u174	And since, Mr. Chairman, I was personally offended, please, personally...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u175	Thank you, thank you, Mr...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u176	...to read this reference which has been declared as a file...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u178	Please, if you could read it to the National Assembly so that you wouldn't...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u179	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Thank you. [[Heckling]] The map, get your card!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u180	I left the map to remind you of me!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u181	One time you assigned me as a host, now you're giving me reading features. Please don't do this! The functions of the chairman of the sitting are scheduled. For speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u182	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The issue is extremely serious and I would like to return to the specific problem and to the content of the report. It has already been mentioned here that we are talking about a significant amount. It's about our Air Force, about aviation as a symbol of our nation and our army. We are also talking about something much bigger, about the defence capabilities of the Republic of Bulgaria. I think the Commission has done a good job, and all my fellow Members have taken part in it with the necessary responsibility, of course, and with their political positions which they have defended. At least, it has become known from talks with former ministers that in previous years such important problems have been managed at least poorly. Minister Shalamanov told, or more precisely reminded, about too unfortunate completed projects for modernization of the Bulgarian armed forces. I'll remind you that we bought transport planes when we didn't have combat aircraft. We had negotiated for eight Spartans, but we got three. We negotiated six sea helicopters, bought three for the same money!? I recall that this procedure started somewhere in 2009 - 2010. In 2013 it was stopped and the planes we had negotiated went to Romania. And today Romania will buy 36 new planes, I won't mention the brand to them...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u183	Like what?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u184	...of a total value of about 9 billion. lv. and new missile systems.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u185	Like what?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u186	New planes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u187	What planes?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u188	This is based on information from the press. Which is obviously missing huge opportunities in front of the Bulgarian state for modernization of the armed forces at twice the price. I recall that in 2013 the price was half. This should be heard by all Bulgarian citizens and this is what the report says. Colleagues on the left very rightly do not dispute these facts. Now the question is what we do from now on, and I think the report clearly says that there are circumstances that need to give us a signal that we are more sensible and if we have to slow down, but extremely rationally spend the resources we have. The report also says one more thing: it cannot prioritize a type of armed force at the expense of tragic delays in other types of armed forces. This is clearly stated in the Report. And I think that none of my colleagues from the Defence Committee can challenge the simple truth that if we do not have an opportunity by air, land and sea, we have no opportunity to protect the country. In this sense, I think the report is useful. It is useful because the debate on the spending of large public funds, the debate on the modernisation of the various types of armed forces, the debate on the acquisition of defence capabilities is held here in the National Assembly, before the whole Bulgarian society. Again, it became known from the Commission's work that Bulgaria spent 2 billion in 2009 lv. on the modernisation of its armed forces. I'm not gonna ask who was in power then, I'm just gonna say that against this huge amount of money, we have zero acquired defense capabilities. How can we define that? I let everyone jump to conclusions. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and shouts: "Bravo, bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Gazhev, you have a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am pleased that we have finally returned to the subject of the report made by this Commission. I would like to dwell on some facts and circumstances on it and, above all, on the work done this year. In January 2017, a meeting with the three countries took place. Let us be clear that Bulgaria has been negotiating with countries since 2010. That is, on the one hand, Sweden, on the other hand, are Portugal and the United States. On the third side, it's Italy. Accordingly, by sending the RPTs by voting on the National Assembly decision, they are sent to countries. Speaking of the deadlines that have been given, we should still bear in mind the deadlines on which the road map is working, the last approved from 9 February 2017 by General Tsanko Stoykov, then Head of the Project Management Board. Here it is very interesting to say that in the end t. 8, after completing the work on the analysis of the offer, the preparation and analysis of documents, the deadline is already April.. May for this year and not as fast as it should be. Speaking of who prepared the methodology for evaluation and who confirmed it, I will only quote Prime Minister Gerdjikov's Order No. PR-53, in point. 8 which is said to have been approved by the Chairman of the Board for the Management of the Project by Protocol of 23 June 2016. Thus, on 13 June 2017, the Working Group was established, on the 15th the binding proposals from the member states began to arrive. By the way, I just want to open a brace here for a cipher that has been mentioned since February, and it is available to the Commission as it is on the Commission's subject. Inside it very clearly says how it was initiated, why it was initiated and which Bulgarian statesman initiated it. Let's read so we don't go in, because the subject is closed, we still have access to national classified information on the Constitution. Speaking of whether the payment scheme itself is mandatory or not, and how all participants have been notified of this thing, we should still bear in mind that at the first meeting of the Interdepartmental Working Group in question on March 14th, they open the financial proposals. What they find is that none of the three offers correspond to this financial scheme. That is precisely why on 16 March there are two letters "the one is from the 16th," the second is a reminder from 23 March, respectively to the Chairman of the Working Group Colonel Belkinov, and subsequently to General Tsanko Stoykov, as Chairman of the Board of Management of the Project, which says that none of the payment schemes meets the criteria laid down in our documents. Accordingly, in response, the three countries send their answers in which they say whether they will stick or not. An answer has been received from the Italian State by the person designated for contact, Colonel Eduardo de Santo, who says they will adapt to the payment scheme proposed. A similar response was received from the American-Portugal offer. In fact, very interesting: they say they will comply with the proposed method of payment by Bulgaria during the course of the negotiations. What's interesting here is another thing about the answer received from Sweden as well. However, Sweden's reply is signed by an adviser in SAAB, not by the State, but we are negotiating with the State. Here my question is: what is this councillor in SAAB who agrees and takes commitments from the state? This is very interesting and please someone, if you could, answer me. Why not the Executive Director, not even the Deputy Executive Director, who is in charge of the project, but is from an adviser to the SAAB. And how does an advisor to a firm?! With the same weight could have been a letter from IKEA?! Exactly the same way, provided that there was a letter from the Swedish State previously indicating which are the official contact points of the Swedish State. This adviser to the SAAB is not one of those points. That's one by one. On the 27th, upon receipt of the answers, the working group in question shall be assembled. By the way, it should be clarified that this is exactly the day after the elections are held. The offer given by a company is recognised as a state offer, and the offer given by two countries is thrown into the trash. On this basis, we have a corrupted and subjective competition. It should be noted that in the framework of the Decision of 27 March, the inter-agency working group finished work on 5 April To tell you the truth, good for people to do their job so fast! This is an extraordinary precedent for working at the Ministry of Defense! After all, I hope all the deals, hopefully all the committees are working on all the projects in this way, because right now it takes them at least two weeks to compare the printers, and for the planes they've done it in seven days. It is interesting that it ends on April 5th, and from there there is silence until April 19th. By the way, April 19 is also known as another date. This is the first day and the oath of this National Assembly. On 19 April a decision was taken by the Interdepartmental Working Group, the Board for Project Management to approve the documents and to provide them to the Minister of Defence at the time. That's what happened on April 19th. The documents were deposited and sent to the Ministry of Economy for signature on 25 April, signed by the Minister of Economy on 25 April. As one of the previous colleagues in the opposition said before me, the initial coordination of documents between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economy took a month from November to December, and the subsequent coordination of results between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economy took half a day. And all so that on 26 April it could be submitted to the Council of Ministers on the last possible day of the caretaker government, provided that at that time it was clear the name of the next prime minister, the next minister of defence and the next minister of economy! What made them go so fast?! The interesting thing about the whole thing is that the decision of the Council of Ministers, which is taken, is not only ambiguous, it does not imply either implementation or continuation of the procedure, but does not give grounds for its initiation again. So on their last day, they oblige the state to the biggest military deal and we actually fall into an impetus that leads to the entire debate that we have at the moment. Actions during the caretaker government have ruined all the long-standing work on this project. I don't even want to get into the subject of what exactly the Commission has analyzed and what absurdities! You should have bothered to go and read the documents because, as Mr. Hristov said, only one representative of the BSP Commission has read the documents. If you'd bothered to read the documents, you'd have questions like that! I'm very curious, if someone else had signed the papers and didn't try to ride another institution like that, would you talk like that?! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u191	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. - What's the line? [[Noise and lines.]] There are no lines. To speak, the public representative Jaihan Ibryamov. After him, the People's Representative Emil Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll talk about a deal and the political parameters of a deal. When this Commission was created at the beginning, it was not necessary that the executive in the face of the ruling coalition could cancel the decision of the cabinet and we would not be having this debate today. At the same time, we wouldn't have wasted so much time on the acquisition of these fighter planes. For several months we had seven or eight meetings, if I am not mistaken. At these meetings we listened to all the ministers, starting from Anyu Angelov, Angel Naydenov, Minister Nenchev, we listened to the ministers of service Shalamanov and Tagarev, we were unable to hear unfortunately Minister Yanev, and one Deputy Minister of State Ivanov. Since the procedure itself has started, it has been following its plan, a timetable that has been set, with relevant algorithms, methodologies, without any unnecessary contradictions, both in the guidance teams and in the project teams, which have been formed the Steering Committee and the integrated project team. In this way Minister Anyu Angelov showed that when there is a good collective working in the interests of Bulgaria, there is finally a report which has been submitted to the Council of Ministers. So far, no problem! The next cabinet comes with Minister Angel Naydenov, who finds the report, makes a revision of everything done by this stage, naturally make a change in the steering committee and the integrated project team, but the process continues from the stage that has been welded. There is a change in the financial framework by about 100 million. Both colleagues pointed out the following: because Bulgaria is not at that time in good financial condition, the money for buying these planes is missing. Nothing bad, you have to look for finances to buy these planes. He came to the hearing, Minister Nenchev. Here I would like to point out that the previous ministers mentioned by me, because they have backgrounds as people of the system, had laid out their topics and arguments consistently, there was hierarchy, gradation, while with Minister Nenchev such a thing was missing. His first sentence, when he sat down, said: "I found a chaos. How is it that until his visit as Minister everything is fine and he suddenly finds chaos?! That's when the problems of this project really start. A review of the report is beginning of course. Those are his words, colleagues, they're in the transcript. An adjustment shall be made to the statement of claim. A serious correction of the financial parameters is being made. A moment ago, a colleague on the stand mentioned that it was a billion and a half. Yeah, it's a billion and a half, but it doesn't matter to me how much money we're talking about! These are public finances that the state must spend the most properly and fully. Note: then a change is made.. is removed the steering committee, which is headed by Deputy Minister Kyumurdzhiev, broadcast by the coalition partner then to GERB, and is forming a management team headed by the Commander of the Air Force at that time. Really then began the substantial changes, problems and frictions. According to the words of Minister Nikolay Nenchev, between the teams themselves. I will also quote what Minister Tsvetanov said in a TV show: "Prime Minister Boyko Borisov has always been extremely worried about national security. And then it was decided that the future president would make the final decision for the planes. The criteria for a new fighter plane until then were seven and suddenly eight, which is why the F-16s were dropped. I'm not gonna dwell on specific planes, but the government knew there was some kind of change being made anyway. Since we are concerned about our national security, it is entrusted to another person to be responsible for the entire project. To a question from a Commissioner to Minister Nikolay Nenchev: finally who was signing the documents, even notice, colleagues, there was a reply from a colleague who said that the Ministry of Defence had misled the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister: a report was submitted in which there were violations. Thus, the National Assembly was also misled and last year we ratified this Report. That's when the letters of commitment begin, which are sent to the three countries. Colleagues, here I specifically address the Political Party GERB. When an office is entrusted in the hands of a partner who is incapable of managing the processes in the office, we come to these conclusions. Therefore, as General Simeonov said, yes, we will support the report to correct this mistake. Note, however, that it goes into the hands of your coalition partner again, because the financial parameters will change. This is what is written in the decision that we propose as participants in the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u193	What's wrong?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u194	If this incorrect policy is held again, who will be responsible to the Bulgarian Army because there will be a delay by one year, with at least one year of this project? When we talk about three billion, I ask a question: since the Ministry of Defence has revised this project, will the financial parameters rise to three billion? We'll see, that's just a hypothesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u195	So what if they go up?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u196	What has happened in the past few weeks, a month, has led to an institutional war that is of no use to either statehood or our country. Instead of pointing out specific political arguments and reasons, why did we start attacking certain individuals? Who is this coalition future investor, partner of Bulgaria, who will want to invest or offer a product because, as we talk about stability, everyone would say that Bulgaria is an unstable country that does not take the right political partners and the right political partners are not elected for these decisions? Therefore, fellow Members, here we have a recommendation to the President of the Commission itself, Mr. Hristov. I mentioned it in our participation in the Commission that when we choose someone to prepare a report on the basis of the procedure, this should be done with the knowledge of the participants in the Commission at least from a moral point of view, although he has the full right to choose who this rapporteur should be. It's Professor Georgiev. Therefore, colleagues, today it is extremely important that we make the right decision. By making the right decision, the Ministry of Defence, as well as the executive power, should review the gaps in the procedure, but I repeat: this happened during the reign of Borisov 2, to be submitted to the National Assembly and to buy the battle planes. Otherwise, this is not a blow to the President or to the Prime Minister, but a blow to the state and to Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u197	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people representative Emil Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To save time, I'll be very brief. I'll take only two facts into consideration. There are two documents that are signed in the first stage of the project. The concept of building defence capabilities and the second one is the report by General Radev as head of the integrated project team of 12 March 2013. What's interesting about this report? The three offers of the three countries are examined and there he reports to the Minister of Defence that an agreement has been reached and there is a payment scheme proposed by the opposite party - Portugal and the United States distributed by year. There is shown the payment scheme, which satisfies the Bulgarian country. It is for five years, and everything else to complete the configuration package is under the FMS program, and the United States divides it into three separate contracts. That is to say that the head of the integrated project team at the moment and subsequently knew that an agreement has been reached between Portugal, the United States and Bulgaria for the deferral of payments according to the scheme requested by the Bulgarian country. Moreover, there is a document showing that in 2016, immediately prior to the submission to the National Assembly of the Investment Expenditure Project, talks were held on the future payment scheme between the Bulgarian country and the opposite country of the United States and Portugal, and in addition to accepting the proposals, it is proposed that the Bulgarian country be signed a Memorandum with which this issue should be dealt with. So at the time the Investment Expenditure Project was submitted to the National Assembly, it was known that the opposite side proposed the same scheme for payment and division of contracts as the Bulgarian side wanted. That's why there are two questions. Did the interdepartmental task force that was working know that there was such a proposal and such talks were held? If she knew, why is the letter from the other side proposed to the Ministry of Defence, the Bulgarian government, the Bulgarian side to begin discussions on specifying exactly the scheme? If, however, the people of the Interdepartmental Working Group did not know that such talks were being held, then what experts are we talking about? The second question is related to the way, with the method, with the management style of the Project Management Board. This is really important because, look what is happening: on 17 June 2016, as has already been said, a meeting of the portfolio management board is held, in which it must be adopted who will establish the Methodology. Taking on himself the responsibility to establish the Methodology, it turns out to be unlawful, the head of the Board of Directors writes a letter to the Directors of Directorates in the Ministry of Defence, in which with an objectionable style it tells them: the letter is from the 17th, this is Friday, if they do not receive an answer, an opinion on the Methodology and the evaluation model, he will consider that they agree with the proposed documents. On the 22nd, when the 17th is Friday! It's a dangerous authoritarian style. I also answer the question here: did he assign the then-leader of the Project Management Board powers and how did he manage this project? Unfortunately, I don't have enough time to go on, but there are a lot of facts that clearly show who is who on this board of directors. I'll find a way to introduce them to the public. Last, Mr. Chairman, if I may. I would very much like to thank the Commissioners who have worked in a calm atmosphere. We have proved that we can work together in the committees. Moreover, I argue that in this Commission, which has worked so long together, there are no lobbyists, and no one in any way has shown in any way that it is for one or another offer, so let the Commission be clear of whether or not there were lobbyists! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u199	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Here's a line, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u200	Mr. Hristov, I think you have started a very nice exhibition to make it clear to your colleagues why the Commission has reached these conclusions in its report and the recommendations that are being made, but please explain the last facts that you missed in your speech. I want to hear them too.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u201	Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What else happens on 17 June 2016? The Chairman of the Project Management Board has been explicitly told that no one will and cannot confirm the Methodology. Moreover, a written statement is sent to him. However, the President decides to confirm it. It is then said to him: See, the portfolio management board at its meeting has adopted a document that prohibits you from changing the Methodology before validating the Investment Expenditure Project, that is, after validating the Investment Expenditure Project by the National Assembly. By the way, this is felt by Minister Angel Naydenov, who in his order No 440 of June 2013 in the same way obliges the head of the Board of Directors to present the odds to him for amendment, to present him with the basic criteria so that he can establish them. So the National Assembly is indeed wearing a white sheet, that is to say, someone has been tricked! I don't specify! I don't specify who or who lied to, it's more than clear. In this situation, we cannot treat this way of work with particular confidence, and what is presented to us as conclusions really raises reasonable doubts. I hope I answered one of your questions, Mr. Toshev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u203	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Any other speeches? Mr. Toshev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to offer the attention of my fellow Members to the changes to the proposals we are making. At the first point of the proposed proposals, in the second sentence, to delete the words "new indicative allocation," a payment scheme, and to add a new financial framework and, in the second sentence of our first proposal, to make a change, 'as a minimum' should include a new financial framework which should ensure the implementation of the three priority projects for re-arming the forces. In point two, we shall delete the last words.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The updated main options for the implementation of the project to be submitted for adoption by the National Assembly together with the new financial framework.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u205	The payment scheme for point one is off?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u206	It's off, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u207	Okay, thanks. Are there any speeches? The proposals actually offer: proposals at the first and second points of the Report on page 25. We replace a new indicative distribution, a payment scheme with a new financial framework, is one proposal. The second point is to update the main options for the implementation of the Project on the basis of the tenders received after the submission in December 2016 of a request for a RFP proposal, including for new aircraft. In the next sentence, we have again the....................................................................................................... Do you have any opinions on the matter? - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Gadget. You don't agree with some changes?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u208	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members. I would like, if I may, Mr. Toshev to justify a little more what he meant by the proposals he made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u209	Okay, he could have done it, he's got time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Member, with several sentences, because after talking so long, I do not know whether the non-specialists have understood what we are proposing, why we are proposing it and why the Commission is working so actively. I, too, would like to thank our President, all of the Commission. First of all, the 800 million dollar increase. a billion and a half, but this does not lead to a change of the concept of building defence capabilities, which automatically makes the short list, the so-called shortlist, or the short list of countries that can deliver airplanes. A double increase in money cannot fail to change the candidates who can participate. We can't share with the same countries with twice the increase in money. Secondly, the change of the indicative distribution of the financial framework into a mandatory criterion, in spite of the decision of the National Assembly, how misled it has been, or has not been misled, this is another question, automatically compromises the ranking made. I am indebted to the Deputy Prime Minister Gerdjikov, who did not accept the proposal for the Plane Classification Report because he feels there is something rotten, even though he was appointed by the Head of the Project Management Board. Colleagues, in addition to the criteria: the first criterion 0.4 for combatability and the second criterion for survival of aeroplanes, the third criterion for residual value, which is 0,35 and 0.25 weight respectively, the second criterion contains the first criterion and in fact becomes the most severe in the assessment of aeroplanes and duplicates it twice. The last thing my colleague Hristov said, I do not know if you paid attention to him, for this money, which is a billion and a half, there is an official proposal made and clear, and available to anyone who can read and can see, for a new plane, a newly manufactured plane that is not included at all in the ranking. Finally, colleagues, by graduating, I want to tell you: we're buying a future in aviation, we're not buying a new type of fighter. We're buying a future for our aviation! Let's not stare at specifics, how Mr. Todorov was, motivations, taps, or smacks, or I don't know what was done there, fillings of something, but think about tens of years ahead, because this plane, which we will establish here after the report is returned to the Ministry of Defence and with a new proposal from the Council of Ministers came to us, we will decide the course of development of our air force for 56
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u211	Thank you, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u212	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u213	Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u214	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Even with its constitution, the outcome of the actions of this Commission was well known. From the very beginning, I expected the conclusion to result in a delay or termination of the procedure or its return to an exit phase due to some minor or formal reason, whether the lack of a ministerial signature when validating Methodology or an unappointed hygienicist in the Interdepartmental Working Group. These doubts were also confirmed by the recent statements of the Prime Minister, according to whom modernization of Bulgarian aviation is not of paramount importance. In my opinion, since its very creation, this Commission has been guided by three fundamental objectives: firstly, to become a tool for fighting war with the presidential institution; secondly, to delay or suspend the procedure; and thirdly, it is pleased to rearrange the candidates with a tendency towards a particular offer. As for the report itself, I am impressed that there is no causal link between its individual parts, i.e. the relationship between the constructive part and the conclusions is completely lost. And I'm setting an example. I think Mr. Boychev mentioned: at the end of the conclusions there is a finding that there was a fourth offer, which corresponds to the financial parameters. However, the conclusion does not say whether this offer should be taken into account, if it is necessary or should not be taken into account. The report abounds with such findings that do not find their dimension in the conclusions. All this, in my opinion, leads to a lack of concreteisation, which creates an opportunity to interpret the Commission's recommendations depending on the preference of a government, prime minister, or after yesterday's vote on some other factors in this House. I can certainly say that this means an end to the procedure for this year, most likely for the next one, which leads to a loss of 400 million. lv. [[GERB lines.]] Admiral Manushev, I'm sorry, I didn't hear you, I was talking.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u215	Please, Mr. Vitanov, do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u216	In fact, the main question I think is whether this procedure will start again because the real reason for the creation of this Commission was the search for an alibi for refusal of modernization of Bulgarian aviation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u217	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will take the last few seconds to read two things that I think are very important, and it will become clear whether someone should be blamed or not. The organization and the activities carried out in the implementation of the Project for the selection of a new type of fighter aircraft are unique to the latest history and the organization is influenced by NATO policy. The good practices of the leading parties in the acquisition of complex systems and weapons have been thoroughly studied and applied, with many questions finding the most intuitively true solution. If there is guilt, the guilt is of political control, which has not been at enough level. Let us not reproach the specialists who have done their work conscientiously and correctly as teams for determining the best choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u219	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u220	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today's debate began at the beginning not essentially and here I want, on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB, as its chairman, to apologize for some of the personal attacks that were made to the President, because I believe that we should not allow this parliamentary tribune to talk about personal topics related to the President's life, and his wife today is the first lady of the country. This is about this unpleasant moment. For the second part of the debate that was taking place today, I would like to thank everyone who has put their arguments on the ground, they have spoken on the ground and can actually create the feeling of additional awareness of the Bulgarian citizens through this debate. The decisions that the Bulgarian Parliament will take are key and extremely important, but when someone says whether politicians have this competence to comment on such an important issue, I can say that every single state and every single NATO Member State is always making their political decisions. In this regard, I think that we should not say that we have not complied with the expertise or that we have ignored these professionals, because this is how we ask ourselves: what are the decisions taken in NATO Member States? Dear colleagues, Bulgaria and Romania were accepted together in NATO. Do you think that Romania's aviation, which is much bigger than the Bulgarian, has taken poor expertise or made a bad political decision? Just to tell you that Romania currently has 8 F-16 aircraft, which, by the way, we had to take 2013, if we had finalised the procedure, at a much better price. Romania is currently in a procedure to buy another 32. Greece currently has 115 F-16 aircraft and another Turkey has 232 F-16 aircraft. I speak as a NATO Member State and our neighbours what they have done in this modernisation of their army. Because that's how I can be accused of lobbying for one plane or another, I'm just gonna give credit for the Grimpen. In Hungary and the Czech Republic, transactions ended in scandal. Switzerland made a referendum and rejected the opportunity to buy Slovakia had a public disapproval, the President of Slovakia has complied and you know that the match was closed there too. At the moment, the "Gripen" are in negotiations, at least on the information that comes out in the public domain, with Botswana, Tanzania, of course, currently Bulgaria is also involved in this process. However, I believe that when important political decisions are made, we must be a truly reliable partner of NATO and the compatibility of this technique we are buying for the Bulgarian army, to comply with NATO standards and equipment, which must then be purchased, must also comply with NATO standards. I will stop here because I am convinced that the right decisions that we are going to make will be taken by the Members of the National Assembly, after all that has been done by the Members of the Committee of the Research Committee, for which I thank them. Thank you for the position they expressed and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Of course, I understand the decision BSP will make, but maybe things are quite different there. However, I would like to thank them for participating in the debate not with personal attacks at certain times, although at times they also gave this tone, which provoked our parliamentary group to have similar behaviour.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u221	Excuse me?! It started with you!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u222	Colleagues from the BSP, my request is to be principled and when we leave here, we do not provoke this tension, which creates a bad image of the institution National Assembly, and we are called to defend the public and national interest. GERB will therefore support the Commission's report because we believe that this is fair and each of us can already conclude: why, for such a short period of time, the government took such an important strategic decision, which cost the Bulgarian taxpayer 1.5 billion. lv.; why was one of the participants disqualified, provided that in a competition the more participants, the better? And we are immediately making a comparison with the position taken on the election of President of the Supreme Administrative Court here we transferred to the new Supreme Judicial Council, and here we did not transfer this to be a responsibility of parliament and a government that is elected by the Bulgarian voters. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u223	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any lines? The way you're leading it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Objection, Mr President, as you have not interrupted the pre-spokesman who tried to insinuate that, here in Parliament, we have de facto made a decision to satisfy the commercial interests of a particular firm. Perhaps the young children have already realized that this Commission should not work because Bulgaria should buy F-16. [[GERB lines.]] Compared to all these countries, Mr. Tsvetanov, there are other planes. Therefore, Mr. Host, Mr. Chairman of the National Assembly, you had to interrupt Mr. Tsvetanov. Why didn't you set an example, for example, with You have, through this whole thing, introduced that the Bulgarian Parliament is the last instance that can influence commercial transactions and which can be lobbying for a particular company. For this thing, Mr. Tsvetanov, we strongly oppose. Let everyone have an equal chance, but with what you just did, the masks fell off. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u225	Mr. Stoynev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u226	All this circus was precisely for one company and Bulgaria to buy F-16. All right, buy those F-16s! [[Radio and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u227	Mr. Stoynev, only you felt something similar in Mr. Tsvetanov's statement. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u228	Procedure in the manner of conduct. Mr. Chairman, nowhere in my speech did I say which firm should win or which brand. [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]] What I said was to state facts about neighbouring countries that are NATO members, what they have done. And to say that where there were doubts about corruption in the determination of a buyer. Dear Mr. Stoinev, please don't spell words I didn't mention. I would ask, Mr. Chairman, when such attempts are made for suggestion and manipulation of the Members of the National Assembly, that you take an attitude. I have not said anything on any occasion, and I will not take any part in this matter. I'm just stating the facts that are public, and I'm guessing you've read them, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u229	This is exactly the kind of attitude I took after the speech of the MP Dragomir Stoinev. Are there any more statements and procedures in the manner of conduct? I won't. We can close the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the editorial changes that were presented by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Vladimir Toshev in paragraphs 1 and 2 on page 2. 25 - replacing one expression with another and including a third. Please vote. Vote 192 MPs: 129, against 63, no abstentions. The changes have been accepted. I shall put to the vote the following: Project! DECISION on the Activity Report of the Temporary Commission to investigate the implementation of the selection procedure of a new type of combat aircraft The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Adopts the Activity Report of the Temporary Commission to examine the implementation of the selection procedure of a new type of combat aircraft. 2. Sends the report to the Ministry of Defence. Please vote. Vote 196 MPs: 127, against 64, abstention 5. The report on the activities of the Temporary Committee for the Study has been adopted to implement the procedure for selecting a new type of aircraft. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u230	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I ask for a re-voting procedure.. Members of parliament failed to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u231	Revoting procedure. Vote 189 MPs: 126, against 59, abstention 4. The draft decision has been adopted. Negative vote, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u232	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against the draft decision because the purpose of this Commission... [[(Radio, noise.) Members of Parliament shall leave the Chamber.)]] Please, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u233	Please, colleagues, who will not be in the Chamber, quickly and quietly leave! Colleagues, please don't hold a meeting. Anyone who won't stay in this room, leave.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u234	For those who are still interested, the objective of the Commission, which has completed its work today, has been stated as such to clarify a procedure that engages a very serious public resource. Unfortunately, though, perhaps her real goal was not to bring clarity but further confusion. Confusion among Bulgarian citizens who were deliberately exposed with insinuations, hints and sometimes frank accusations of corruption for both Bulgarian officials and international authorities and people! Naturally, this confusion will be transferred to both the administration and the expert community, where it has been clearly said today that the expertise is acceptable only if it corresponds to a political solution and is completely unnecessary, can even lead to repression and accusations if it allows itself to challenge the appropriateness of the political will, because it is political will! And that will belongs to the current government. There is nothing wrong with that. The question is: why did Parliament have to be used? To make the smokescreen behind which to make a pre-made decision! I would like to make it clear that Ognian Gerdjikov's caretaker government has not made a binding decision on what plane to buy! On his last day, he ranked the bids. And the current government had all the opportunity and arsenal to make another decision, return the procedure, stop it and anything else! So the confusion will be transferred to our international partners, who are already convinced that in their relations with the Bulgarian state everything is first and last, everything is politics, everything is a conjuncture! Ladies and gentlemen, following this report, the procedure for buying a new Bulgarian fighter will be returned to its original position. When, after a few months or a year, we are all outraged that the glorious Bulgarian aviation is grounded, then there will be no need for a new committee of inquiry, because the responsibility is clear. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u235	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Come in for a second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u236	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I voted against the adoption of this report because, with the Temporary Committee, you, the ruling majority, have created a very dangerous precedent to cause serious damage, damage to the long-standing work of all those who worked tirelessly at the Ministry of Defence to acquire a new type of combat plane. Moreover, with this precedent you demonstrated before the international community mores and morals, a standard with which we once again showed how little confidence can be given to Bulgaria. You have ruined the image of Bulgaria! And not only in the European Union, but also outside it. Unfortunately, you are talking about the future of the Bulgarian Army, and with this Temporary Commission you have stopped modernization. There is no future Bulgarian aviation! Say it. You demonstrated the attitude towards the Bulgarian military, their expertise. It is no secret that the balance has long been broken, thanks to you, between civil and military expertise. The political pressure you've put on has worked. You don't appreciate and devalue the military's work, the expertise they have. I'll tell you a few more facts. With the long period you tried to analyze, of course, unsuccessfully, with fictional conclusions, what did you show? That during this long period there are different organizational, structural changes that affect, naturally, and in the work of different teams, at different levels. But all those who have worked in the system or know it well, you should know that this system is strictly hierarchical and at each level there is a responsible supervisor who is responsible! By the way, today you have shown once again not only that you are inconsistent, but that you cannot bear a political responsibility. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u237	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Third negative vote? I won't. Dear colleagues, an exhibition of the artist from Veliko Tarnovo Dimitriy Lyubenov will be opened at the Club of the National Representative. In 29 canvases he presents Bulgarian nature, domestic and world-consciousness. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. Thirty-minute break. We'll continue at 12.25. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u238	Moving on to the next item on the agenda: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE SITUATION OF NATIONAL SECURITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2016 Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Mr. Chukolov, please read the report. I'm gonna have to ask you in summary, because there are a lot of reports. Basically, the conclusions may be close! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u239	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on the annual report on the state of the The National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. At its regular meeting held on 20 September 2017, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the amendments submitted by the Council of Ministers, No 702-00-35, on 29 August 2017. Annual report on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016 The report contains an assessment of the risks and threats to national security in the field of the financial and economic system, external security environment, security in the field of energy, education, migration and refugee aspects of national security. The policies for the protection of national security, which also reflect those in the field of justice, internal order, defence, cybersecurity, countering corruption, are also analysed. The main priorities in the activities of national security protection in 2017. The external security environment is analyzed and the risks and dangers that are the result of the changed strategic environment in Europe and the Black Sea Basin are identified. As a major risk and threat to national security, the threat of terrorist acts has been identified. In this regard, the government has taken a number of strategic and operational actions to counter radicalisation and terrorism. By Decision No 1 of 5 January 2016, the Council of Ministers adopted a National Counter-Terrorism Plan setting up a reaction organisation, power management and competent structures to prevent and neutralize terrorist threats and control the consequences of a terrorist act. In this direction are created by order of the Prime Minister, the Counter-Terrorism Advisory Group and the National Operations Headquarters. In December 2016, a Law on Counterterrorism was adopted. A National Unit for the reception and processing of reservation data for passengers carried by air has been established at the SANS. As an effective measure, the construction of a temporary impeding facility along the Bulgarian-Turkish border, completion of the integrated monitoring system to curb illegal migration, is also taken into account. In 2016, 2 national and 415 police and specialised operations were carried out to detect illegally staying third-country nationals. Migration pressure is a risk that requires the implementation of long-term measures to build and maintain partition facilities, as well as to increase the capacity of security and public order services. The priorities of the Ministry of Interior in 2017 are outlined as: border security, increasing capabilities for countering terrorism and radicalisation, countering crime, increasing the effectiveness of preventive activities carried out by the police authorities of the Ministry of Interior, international cooperation and integrity in the fight against the risks and threats to our national security. People's representatives Ivan Ivanov, Desislav Chukolov, Stanislav Vladimirov, Georgi Andreev, Dimitar Stoyanov and Tsvetan Tsvetanov took part in the debates. On the basis of the discussion held, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee with 11 votes for the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria, 9 votes for the State of Bulgaria in 2016, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u240	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova. The next report belongs to the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u241	Madam President, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to adopt Annual status report The National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. At a meeting held on 21 September 2017, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. The reasons for the draft decision were presented by the Secretary of the Security Council to the Council of Ministers Georgi Krastev. The foreign security policy presented Georg Georgiev, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. The discussion was attended by Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency of National Security. The report is drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System (prom...) The main objective of the report is to present the executive's assessment of the state of national security and the actions of state institutions to address the security risks and threats in 2016. The trends for the development of national security risks and policies taken to address them are outlined. The report contains assessments of foreign policy events in a multilateral and regional aspect. The security environment is assessed in accordance with defined national interests. The work in sectoral policies to combat risks and threats to national security is presented. Based on conclusions drawn, the perspectives and challenges to national security are outlined. The Republic of Bulgaria conducts a consistent policy to protect its national interests using the instruments of international cooperation, realizing the opportunities of active EU membership, NATO, UN, OSCE and other international organisations. The report presents the actions and measures taken by the Bulgarian state to address the risks to national security of a foreign policy nature. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Foreign Policy gave a positive assessment of the report's expertise. Members of the National Assembly expressed positions on specific texts in the Report. On the basis of the discussion held, given that the report achieves the main objective of objective awareness of the National Assembly and the public of the results of the security policy conducted, the Foreign Policy Commission with 8 votes for the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017 proposed that the National Assembly adopt by decision the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u242	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. The Defense Committee, Mr. Manushev. After that is the Commission for Control of the Security Services, Implementation and Use of the SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will read you the report of the Defence Committee: This Regulation on a Annual Report on the state of national security the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. At a meeting on 13 September 2017, the Defence Committee discussed the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 August 2017. The meeting was attended by 20 MPs. The meeting was attended by the Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers Georgi Krastev, who presented the Report and the reasons for it. The annual report on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016 was prepared on the basis of art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, as well as of the National Security Strategy. It was adopted by the Council of Ministers by decision No 482 on 28 August 2017. Mr. Georgi Krastev stressed that the report was prepared by a working group appointed by order of Prime Minister P 64/22 March 2017. Materials from all departments and security services were used. The submission of the report is synchronized with the Defence and Armed Forces Report and is consistent with its changes. The report presents assessments of the risks, dangers and threats to national security, national security policy, actions that institutions plan to take in the next period. The main elements of the national security system as well as the existing and emerging risks, dangers and threats to the country are discussed. The external security environment is analyzed and the risks and dangers to the national security of the country and the defence as a result of the change of the strategic environment in Europe and the Black Sea basin are identified. A place has been set aside to present activities with regard to the security and defence sector and the relatively new accents such as the Hybrid wars and cybersecurity. Results have been reported for the national security protection system. The main tasks in the context of limited financial resources are outlined to combat the existing and new dangers and threats to the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. The report gives place to the implementation of the National Security Strategy in the field of defence. The importance and the progress of the implementation of the armed forces' defence capabilities development plan 2020 is indicated by the National Assembly. In the discussion of the report took part the MPs Slavcho Velkov, Hristo Gazhev and Milen Mihov. In their speeches, the MPs united around the understanding that the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016 reflects the challenges to national security. There are alarming findings on the state of elements of the national security system and on policies to improve the country's security situation. It is of the opinion that the report is not limited by assessments and actions in 2016, but reflects the actions taken in this year, which is positive. In the course of the speeches, critical remarks were also made, such as the indication in the analysis of Russia's external security environment as a threat, the insufficient presence of issues such as ethno-religious security, the deepening situation on the Korean Peninsula and cybersecurity, in view of the upcoming Presidency of the Council of the EU. Questions were answered by the Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, explaining that the report is divided into a constructive part, policies and upcoming activities. The second section explains in detail what is being done on cybersecurity and ethno-religious security is present in other subdivisions. He stressed that the Russian Federation was not identified as a threat to Bulgaria, but reflected the assessments and concerns of NATO, the EU and the OSCE on the security of the European space, as well as actions in neighbouring territories of Crimea, Ukraine, the Black Sea, the Eastern Mediterranean. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the Defence Committee with 12......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u244	Thank you, dear Admiral Manushev. The next report is from the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Please read the report, Mr. Lazarov. Then there is the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u245	Mrs. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to adopt Annual report on the state of national security in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. At its regular closed session held on 28 September 2017, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined and discussed the draft decision for adoption of the Annual Report on the State of National Security in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers; Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior; Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence; Mr. Svetoslav Daskalov, Director of the Ministry of Military Information The report was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev, who focused on his structure consisting of three sections on: assessment of the risks, dangers and threats to the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria (Section I); policies for the protection of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria (Section II); main conclusions on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria and guidelines for development (Section III). In his speech, he stressed that the report is following the structure of the National Security Strategy and drew attention to the new moment in the "Cyprus Security" report. In the subsequent discussion, the People's Representative Slavcho Velkov expressed his opinion that the report is incomplete due to the issues of: transport security, border security, aviation security, metropolitan, diplomatic security and others. People's representative Philip Popov assessed the indication of only one particular country in the Report as a prerequisite for a negative attitude towards it and said he would not support it. In response to the comments expressed, Mr. Krastev clarified that the other sections of the report presented the answers to the questions concerning transport, border, social and other security aspects and that other countries were mentioned. A positive assessment of the report was given by the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, who said that all aspects of national security were covered in the report, but the representatives of BSP read only one of the 112 pages of the report. MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Valentin Kasabov said they would support the report. Following the end of the discussion and voting with results: 3......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly not to adopt a draft decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u246	If you want access, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u247	Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, please put to the vote for admission to the Chamber of Mr. Georgi Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u248	Please vote on the admission procedure. They voted 83 MPs: 79, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Krastev to the hall. We continue with the report by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you go, Mr. Dinev. If I may, in summary, not so long.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u249	Madam President, honourable Members! "COMMODITY" on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee at its meeting held on 4 October 2017 discussed and discussed the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. The meeting was attended by Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The annual report was presented by Georgi Krastev. The assessment of the risks, danger and threats to national security noted the current state of the economy: growth of gross domestic product, growth of gross added value, increase of foreign direct investment, reduction of unemployment, increase of labour productivity, reduction of trade deficit as a percentage of gross domestic product, recovery of tourist sector. The second section of the Report on National Security Policy Protection commented on the activities of the specialised bodies. The third section, dealing with key conclusions on the state of national security and development guidelines, points out relatively optimistic forecasts for economic development and stability of the country. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u250	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinev. The next is the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u251	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Before I introduce you to the Opinion, I ask for a procedure for extending plenary time today until the debate on this item is concluded on the agenda, including by voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u252	Please vote on the procedure. They voted 106 MPs: 78, against 22, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Proceed, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u253	Thank you. I present to your attention. "COMMODITY" on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. At its meeting held on 13 September 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this Report. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The report was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev, who noted that his main goal is to present the executive's assessment of the risks, dangers and threats to the effectiveness and efficiency of the national security policy in 2016, as well as the actions the institutions of government plan to take in the next period. According to the 2016 Report, a number of legislative changes have been initiated, developed and adopted to create conditions for the implementation of judicial reform. The amendments and additions of the Law on the Judiciary are marked as the main focus of the National Assembly. During the discussion took part the MPs Valeri Zablyanov, Daniel Kirilov, Yordanka Fikirliyska and Yavor Notev. Mr. Zablyanov expressed his disagreement with the finding in the Report on the threat that arises for our national security by the Russian Federation. After the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes for the Council, 4 votes against the Council of Ministers and 1 vote abstention supported the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. In view of the vote taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs proposes to the National Assembly the following: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria: HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u254	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. The next report belongs to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Then is the report of the Energy Commission. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u255	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to adopt Annual national security status report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting, held on 20 September 2017, discussed and discussed the draft decision for adoption of the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, with the importer of the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, who presented the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. He pointed out that the report was drawn up on the basis of the provisions of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, and in accordance with paragraph 1. 157 of the National Security Strategy. It presents the activities of the institutions in defence of national security and the realization of national interests. The report contains assessments of the risks and threats to national security and planned policies and actions to avoid them. The annual report outlines the picture of security in the economy, internal order, energy and social security, defence and foreign policy and analyzes the risks of conflicting processes within and outside the country and their impact on the different spheres of public and economic life in Bulgaria. In the matter of scope of competence of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is information on certain aspects of social security. The first section "Assessment of the Risks, Threats and Threats to the National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria" contains generalized findings on the factors with long-term negative impact on social security, among which are negative demographic processes, low education among a high percentage of the population, the pressure of the economic crisis and its impact on the situation of marginalized communities, the migration crisis, the increasing number of socially excluded persons, an increase in people with difficulty in implementing the labour market. In 2016 the population in Bulgaria continued to decline. According to the National Statistical Institute, as of 31 December 2016, the population of Bulgaria was 7, 153,784, representing 1.4% of the population of the European Union. Compared to 2015, the country's population decreased by 48,414 people, or by 0.7%. The report stresses that the demographic crisis leads to significant regional economic imbalances. As a result, the territorial distribution of the population is uneven, which has an adverse impact on the economic development of the country. The mobility of the population is increased, which leads to multi-spectrum problems in social role relations.. Economic, labor, professional, family and others. Due to the ageing population, age dependence continues to increase. As of 31 December 2016, the overall age dependency ratio was 52.4%, or each person in dependent ages (less than 15 years and over 65 years) accounted for less than two active age subjects. For comparison, in 2005 and 2015, this coefficient was 44,5 and 51.2% respectively. The ageing population led to an increase in its average age, which from 40.4 years in 2001 increased to 41.2 years in 2005 and reached 43.3 years at the end of 2016. The demographic replacement factor, which shows the ratio between the number of workers aged (15 years) and the number of workers aged (60 years) shows another alarming trend in the reduction of the productivity of the working population. In 2001, every 100 persons coming from a working age were replaced from 124 entering a working age, while in 2014, those entering a working age were 64 per 100 exiting. The second section of the National Security Protection Policy contains information on employment policies, improving qualification and demographic issues conducted in 2016. The active labour market policy during the accounting year is aimed at supporting sustainable economic growth and job creation. It was implemented through the implementation of the National Employment Promotion Plan financed by the State budget by 73 million. lv. and funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds. The active labour market policy is prioritised towards the target group of unemployed young people aged 29 years, unemployed over 50 years, long unemployed, unemployed with low qualifications and lack of key competences, with emphasis on Roma people, people with disabilities, discouraged persons. As a result of the overall activity of the Employment Agency, more than 260 thousand unemployed begin work, from which in the primary market more than 217 thousand, under employment programmes and incentive measures from the Employment Promotion Act Compared to 2015 the work started increased by 6,2% or 15,401 people, as a result of the increase of those entering the primary market. A total of 20,366 persons are involved in new employment, according to the Operational Programme schemes "Human Resources Development." 16 641 unemployed persons are included in training for professional qualifications and key competences. The amendments adopted at the beginning of November 2016 to the Employment Promotion Act aim also to support the implementation of the specific recommendations of the European Commission to Bulgaria, as well as to create conditions for better meeting the demand and supply of labour force; increase the effectiveness of the active labour market policy; improve access to the labour market, especially for the most vulnerable groups; reduce administrative costs for enterprises that provide temporary work and ease of registration for them. The third section outlines the policy guidelines in the following directions for the following period: increasing the quality of the workforce; limiting unemployment and involvement in employment of representatives of the unequal groups on the labour market; developing social dialogue; continuing implementation of the reform of the pension system and ensuring its financial sustainability; improving the quality and effectiveness of control of compliance with labour legislation; speeding up the process of deinstitutization in specialized institutions for elderly people with disabilities; improving the situation of Roma. Particular attention is paid to the need to implement an integrated approach and cross-sectoral cooperation to achieve the objectives of the updated demographic development strategy for the population in the Republic of Bulgaria 2012 In the subsequent discussion the people representative Vesela Lecheva from BSP expressed her opinion that the report expresses a tendency towards a certain anti-Russian mood and their group will not support the report. People's representative from the parliamentary group "United Patriots." Pavel Shopov believes that Russia is not the big threat to Bulgaria. And confirmed that Bulgaria should pursue a balanced policy towards Russia. In response Mr. Georgi Krastev explained that the annual report on the state of national security is generalising and does not contain texts that create anti-Russian moods in society. And you shouldn't draw conclusions by taking quotes out of context. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: 11 votes, 8 votes, 8 votes against and 2 votes, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision for adoption of the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016 with an importer of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u256	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. The Energy Committee? Mr. Tinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u257	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. The meeting was attended by the Council of Ministers: Mr. Georgi Krastev. Secretary of the Security Council. The report presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev was prepared in implementation of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by decision of the National Assembly and the provisions of art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. The report aims to present general assessments of the state of national security. In the field of energy, the main risks and threats to the energy security of the Republic of Bulgaria are dictated by the continuing high level of dependence of the country on one supplier of energy resources, the Russian Federation, and the insufficient interconnection of the Republic of Bulgaria with neighbouring countries, as well as the crisis between Russia and Ukraine and the resulting immediate threat of disruption of natural gas transit. Taking into account the need to reduce Bulgaria's dependence on one natural gas supplier, at the beginning of 2017, the European Commission approved two projects of common interest for financing of Bulgartransgaz The development of its own oil and natural gas production is also key to ensuring energy security. The progress of the studies in the block "Han Asparuh" in the Black Sea, as well as the advent of the competition for research of the block "Silistar" are part of the most serious steps for real diversification. The risk to the energy system is the accumulated obligations of NEK EAD to BEH EAD, as well as of Sofia Topplofication EAD to BEH EAD and the other heating companies to Bulgargaz. Bulgaria is one of the last countries in the European Union, which has not yet fully liberalized its electricity market. This creates a negative impact on the electricity market and creates a number of problems, including social tensions among end customers, industrial consumers, electricity producers and other participants in the process of production, trade and consumption. In the subsequent discussion, the people representative Iskren Veselinov commented on the lack in the report on the situation around TPP Varna, which has not produced electricity for several years, which is why its license should be revoked, given that the TPP Varna is extremely important for both the national energy network and the safety of the energy supply. National Representative Tasco Ermenkov disagreed with the finding in the report that Bulgaria provides 70% of its gross energy consumption from imports. According to data from the European Union, the gross consumption of energy from imports is about 54.5%, and Bulgaria is even lower about 34.5%. National Representative Tasco Ermenkov also disagrees with the statement in the report that Bulgaria can receive 500 million cubic metres of gas in the reverse link with Romania. National Representative Valentin Nikolov added that the report had to find a place to sell the CEZ-Bulgaria Society. A procedure started last year and concerns one third of the consumers in Bulgaria. People's representative Delyan Dobrev made a comment that it is appropriate to consider the introduction of a order in which, first, the committees in Parliament to vote the texts or the position to be included in this report and then the Council of Ministers to include it in the report itself. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held the Energy Committee of the Republic of Bulgaria's 12 votes in 2016, 7 votes in favour of the Council of Ministers and 3 abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702, No 702, No 34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u258	Thank you, dear Mr. Tinchev. The report from the Committee on Education and Science? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u259	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Members of the Parliament, I would like to present to your attention: "COMMODITY" on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. At its regular meeting held on 13 September 2017, the Education and Science Committee examined the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. The meeting was attended by Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science; Tanya Mihailova, Deputy Minister of Education and Science; Petar Nikolov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science; Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council at the Council of Ministers. The report on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016 was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev. The annual report on the state of national security has been prepared in implementation of the National Security Strategy and the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. The report aims to present general assessments of the security situation in separate directions and security policies. The education and education of Bulgarian citizens are vital for national security, defined in the National Security Strategy. The report presents the main problems in the field of education such as dropping out of school, insufficient quality of education, especially in some regions and among some communities. In the subsequent discussion the people representative Stoyan Mirchev expressed dissatisfaction with the absence in the report of data on functional illiteracy, which results from the problem of ghetto societies in Bulgaria. The report does not show the European Union's policy on migrants and migrant flows and the entry of radical cells across Europe. According to him, the report was not prepared in Bulgaria and is a geopolitical order. To the questions asked Mr. Krastev answered that the report was prepared to carry out a task by the government and is not a geopolitical order. Functional illiteracy is not the cause of the getoisation of certain communities, but of non-education. The low level of education, marginalisation, disintegration of society are referred to in other sections of the Report as a reason for the danger of the spread of radicalisation, which is why it should be seen as a whole. After a vote of 11 votes held, the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly to adopt an Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Report from the Committee on Environment and Water? Here you go, Mr. Rykoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u260	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on the draft Decision on the adoption of the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria In 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. At its regular meeting on 13 September 2017, the Environment and Water Commission examined the Draft Decision adopting the Annual National Security Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. The meeting of the Ministry of Environment and Water was attended by Petyo Petkov, Head of the Department of Legal Affairs, and Prof. Lyuleva, Head of the Department of Dangerous Chemicals. The Chairman of the Committee on Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva noted that for the second time the environmental protection was included in this Report, that is to say, it is undoubtedly part of national security and it is important that these issues be dealt with and then gave the floor for a brief presentation of the report by the representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Water. The Prime Minister Luleva pointed out that the report was prepared by another Department of Defence, such as the Ministry of Environment and Water, which took place within the time limit for consultations on the texts proposed in the draft report, edited in the section concerning natural disasters and industrial accidents, road accidents and the formulation of up-to-date texts relating to the established state of security concerning accidents occurring in low and high risk undertakings. She also pointed out that the legislative measures and initiatives in this direction and, above all, the proposals relating to the amendment of legislation, the strengthening of control and coordination between control authorities and competent authorities, the changes made to the Environmental Protection Act relating to the transposition of the Directive on the control of the prevention of major accidents with dangerous substances in undertakings with high and low risk potential. The report on the state of national security aims to present the executive's assessment of risks, hazards and threats, of the effectiveness of the national security policy in 2016, as well as of the actions that the institutions plan to take in the next period. The report is essential for informing public institutions and civil organisations in other countries, as well as NATO, European Union and international organisations on the security policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. The report, together with the traditional aspects of national security, defence, foreign policy, foreign security, counter terrorism and cybersecurity strategy, includes environmental, including in terms of security in the human-natural relations, where it finds a place to improve the effectiveness of control activities by the Ministry of Environment and Water, targeted waste management policy, reducing and ending direct and indirect risks to human health. The security environment also ensures the reduction of environmental risks associated with soil, water and air pollution, the impact on biodiversity and the reduction of greenhouse emissions. The problem of abnormal particulate levels, which is also related to insufficient effective measures by local authorities, shall be reported. Last but not least, the risk of State financial penalties for failure to comply with environmental commitments has also been posed. After the vote, the Committee on Environment and Water, with 11 votes for the European Parliament, supported the draft decision and expressed the following opinion: it proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision adopting the Annual National Security Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u261	Thank you, dear Mr. Rykov. The report of the Committee on Culture and Media follows. Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u262	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I will introduce you. {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. The Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017, was reviewed at a regular meeting of the Culture and Media Committee on 14 September 2017. The meeting was attended by Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The annual report shall contain information and assessments on domestic political events, on processes for the implementation of international projects and on events in conflict areas in other countries. The main objective of the report is to present the executive's assessment of the risks, hazards and threats, of the effectiveness and effectiveness of the national security policy in 2016, as well as of the actions the state institutions plan to take. With regard to the policy for the preservation of cultural and historical heritage, the report focuses on the criminal offence against the archaeological movable cultural heritage, illegal search, storage, export, trafficking and subsequent trade outside the country. The crimes committed against real cultural values are also becoming increasingly a problem. There are serious deficiencies in the security system and ensuring the safety of cultural values, insufficient expertise and technical security to maintain security and preparedness for response in the event of armed conflict or disaster. The interaction of the Ministry of Culture with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the Prosecutor's Office in combating illegal attacks against cultural values is carried out by participating in joint projects to strengthen administrative capacity and build electronic information exchange systems. It remains seriously difficult due to the lack of specialized units, frequent changes in the organisation of structures implementing cultural heritage conservation activities, the wide scope of the national cultural heritage protection system and the lack of effective interaction mechanisms built up. In relation to the activities of foreign special services, it is noted that public opinion-based events are being held, including through the use of mass media. After the vote, the results are: 7 votes for the vote, 7 votes for the vote against the vote, and 1 vote for abstention. The Committee on Culture and Media does not support the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u263	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government follows. Here you are, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u264	{\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 14 September 2017, together with the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, who presented the report and the draft decision took part in the committee meeting. The report is drawn up in implementation of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by decision of the National Assembly and the provisions of art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. The report presents assessments of the risks, hazards and threats, the effectiveness and effectiveness of national security policies and the actions taken by state institutions to address security threats. Analyses are also presented on the trends in the development of national security risks and the actions that state institutions plan to take in the next period to deal with them. The report contains assessments of domestic political and foreign policy events, processes of implementation of international projects and events in conflict zones outside the country's borders. The security environment is assessed in accordance with defined national interests, presenting the activities in sectoral policies to counter the risks and threats to national security. The main tasks in the implementation of the adopted regulations and strategic acts are outlined as well as accompanying measures to counter threats to the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. Based on the conclusions, national security prospects for 2017. The activities in the field of regional development and public works are included only in Section 2 of the report The section focuses on the activities to be implemented under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020." "In the field of residential policy are presented the results of the implementation of the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multi-Family Residential Buildings. The results of the policies related to the operation, construction, reconstruction and modernisation of water supply and sewerage systems and facilities of settlements are also reported. A National Programme for the Prevention and Restriction of Landings in the Republic of Bulgaria, erosion and abrasives on the Danube and Black Sea coast 2015 - 2020 was adopted. Information on the different classes of roads, which are newly built, reconstructed, rehabilitated and renovated in 2016 under various programmes and projects is presented in the activities of geoprotection activities. During the discussion, the speakers drew attention to the lack in the report of some essential and important issues of national security in the field of regional development and public works such as analysis of the state, conclusions, recommendations and measures to address the regional and regional differences in the development of the various regions of the country. The report states that a targeted investment programme has been developed to support the development of Northwestern Bulgaria, the Rhodopes, Strandzha-Sakar, mountain, semi-mountain and border regions which has not yet been adopted by the Council of Ministers. Recommendations were made in the preparation of the next annual reports to analyse security policies in a regional and local context, taking into account the structure, personnel and financial security of the activities of the local authorities and its impact in the area of security, addressing the specific threats to individual municipalities and regions not covered by this report. The representative of the importer agreed with the comments and assurance that the opinions and positions expressed will be taken into account in the preparation of the next annual reports on the state of national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 10 votes, 4 votes against the Council of Ministers and 3 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt an Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u265	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. A report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food follows. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u266	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-00-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 13 September 2017, discussing the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council at the Council of Ministers took part in the meeting of the committee; from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov, Minister, Dr. Tsvetan Vassilev, Atanas Dobrev, Lozana Vassileva and Vergina Krasteva. Vasil Nikolov, Chairman of the Agricultural Academy. The report was presented by Georgi Krastev. He noted that the report does not constitute a report on the implementation of the activities of individual institutions, but an assessment of the general state of national security, of the policies carried out and summarised conclusions on priority areas. In the part concerning agriculture and forests, the report presents key findings on the situation in the sector, the existing risks, the activities carried out and the measures taken. The role of agriculture is highlighted to ensure a sufficient amount of products and food for the population and food safety along the food chain. The stable development of the agricultural sector has been noted, indicating that the growth of the physical volume of agricultural production produced and the possibilities for the supply of foodstuffs from other Member States of the European Union or third countries create prerequisites for reducing the risks associated with ensuring the food security of the country. Particular attention is paid to the danger and damage of forest fires resulting in serious damage to ecosystems, their sustainability is disrupted and land degradation occurs. There has been a sharp increase in the number of fires and the amount of burning areas in recent years, as well as an increased risk of forest fires, especially as a result of the cleaning of agricultural land. The illegal practices in the extraction and transport of wood are highlighted as a major problem. Environmental security and health risks related to smuggling and the use of unauthorised plant protection preparations have also been identified. The sector is highlighted as one of those at risk in terms of abuse and ineffective management of EU funds. In the subsequent discussion, the MPs noted that a number of questions have not been reflected or are covered entirely superficially in the report. The parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs gave examples of the smuggling of unauthorized plant protection preparations, the use of which permanently harms agricultural land, as well as unregulated imports of animals that pose a risk to the economy and to animal and human health. From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, the report did not take into account the role of the Agricultural Academy as the only structure that can make an analysis and make recommendations in case of a crisis related to soil pollution with radiation, chemicals, etc. People's representatives from BSP for Bulgaria have noted the proven effect of applying the VAT reverse charge mechanism for the supply of cereals and technical crops in the fight against VAT fraud. In this regard, they raised the question: shouldn't an attempt be made to further extend the measure, although it is currently extended to the maximum permissible period? The Movement for Rights and Freedoms group noted that without the effective functioning of the Customs Agency, positive results could not be expected in any direction, regardless of the measures identified and taken to address existing risks. In conclusion, Georgi Krastev noted that the remarks made during the discussion will be taken into account in the preparation of the next reports. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 9 votes for the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017, supported the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017, and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision on the adoption of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u267	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. The latest report is from the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u268	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! At its regular meeting held on 20 September 2017, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports discussed and discussed an annual report on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 702-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. Guests at the meeting were Ms. Gabriela Kozareva Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports and Mr. Georgi Krastev Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. On behalf of the importer, the report was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev. In his presentation he stressed that the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria aims to assess the risks and threats to national security, the effectiveness of the national security policy in 2016, as well as to present the activities carried out by ministries and agencies in accordance with the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria. The report presents the main threats to social security to children and young people related to reducing the number of live births, problems related to marginalisation of entire communities, an increase in the number of socially excluded persons, as well as a reduction in the demographic substitution coefficient, which shows that in 2016. 100 people coming from a working age are replaced by only 64 young people. As a serious risk to national security in education are prematurely left the educational system children and students, as well as those not participating in any form of employment, education or training young people. As a threat to national security are also assessed the increased migratory pressure, leading to a sharp increase in the number of children coming from areas of armed conflict and making children subject to radical influence through the use of religion. With regard to national security policies relating to children and young people, the report focuses on: - policies and measures to ensure equal access to quality education and to prevent early leaving the education system are aimed at all children, focusing on children and students from vulnerable groups; - Policies under the Plan for the Implementation of the Strategy for the Educational Integration of Children and Students from Ethnic Minorities ensuring equal access to school education for disadvantaged students, including Roma; policies and key measures to ensure access to education and improving the quality of education for all children and students, including those from vulnerable groups; - active measures on employment policies aimed at young people not participating in any form of employment, education or training which are referred to in the report as the priority group of the Labour Market Policy Agency for 2017; - policies for promoting the physical education of citizens and development of children's and youth sports and stimulating sport for excellence. The discussion was attended by the MPs Ms. Vesela Lecheva, Slavcho Atanasov and Ivan Chenchev. National Representative Slavcho Atanasov paid attention to the importer's lack of information in the Report on a serious risk to national security related to the unhealthy model of nutrition and the low physical activity of children, which leads to obesity and obesity. In this regard, we have a serious problem. At the end of his speech Mr. Atanasov recommended to the importer to respect the deadline for presenting the report to the National Assembly as defined in the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria. People's representative Vesela Lecheva expressed her disagreement regarding the content related to the policies for children, young people and sports. Ms. Lecheva expressed her opinion that these policies and the basic parameters that affect are too fragmented and expressed in general terms. Regarding the youth and sport policy presented in the report, Mrs. Lecheva stressed that it is necessary to pay more attention to sports for everyone. The representative of the importers drew attention to the comments made and assured that they would be taken into account in the preparation of the next report. On the basis of the vote held with...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u269	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. That was the last report. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u270	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The submission of this Report by the Council of Ministers on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016 and its examination in this Chamber and in an open session, publicly, is in implementation of art. 7 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, which entered into force at the end of 2015. Yes, we by this Law have advised the Council of Ministers to submit such a report annually on the state of national security, to consider it, to be debated in the National Assembly. We also included in the other laws that were then adopted, the duties of other services, I speak in the field of security, the State Agency, the Intelligence Agency, to import to the Council of Ministers and to present to the National Assembly such classified reports, and at the same time to import and publish on the website of the Council of Ministers and the clear version of these reports. Why am I saying this? I say this because this is a really common report, a summary report, it cannot be included in the details and details of all sectors in Bulgaria that concern national security. And, basically, you see from the reports, it is allocated to many committees, in different sectors. The various committees have examined it, have, of course, and recommendations, some of them are essential. The report contains three general sections of the European Economic, Agriculture and Forests Assessment of the Risks, Threats and Threats of the National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria and, of course, on the various systems of financial security, economic, agriculture and forests, external security, social security. I'm not going to list them all, you heard them from the internal order reports, natural disasters, activities of foreign special services, hybrid wars and so on. There's no point in enumerating them all. But they are also subject to consideration in the committees that control the executive power in all these sections, I am talking about the specifics. The second section is the National Security Policy of the Republic of Bulgaria.The third section is the main conclusions on the state of national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. The main objective of the report is to really present the activities of the institutions, the executive power in the Republic of Bulgaria, the actions taken and the challenges facing the Republic of Bulgaria, also the measures identified for the next period, for the following year or for subsequent periods of time. All this matters, of course, to informing public institutions, civil organisations, other EU countries, and also NATO Member States about security policy in the Republic of Bulgaria and the measures to be taken. I will not stop myself, of course, on the whole report, there are other colleagues and committees in the sectors, they will speak. The challenges and the constantly changing security environment and the radically changing security environment in the coming years require the development of coordinated policies and a strategic and conceptual framework for countering new threats, including hybrid threats. In this report for the first time there is actually a separate section that concerns cybersecurity and is quite critically noted in it that the level of training of the institutions in Bulgaria by specialists is not good for technical security. And that's a fact! It is also known, but it has been found in the Report, with appropriate measures to be taken in the future, and in the short term, in addition to legislative and legislative measures, have been taken. You know, we last year, the previous National Assembly, made legislative amendments to this part, but to take measures with a view to cybersecurity and cyber attacks. In the report itself, in detail, there are sufficient indications of the types of threats, how many cyber attacks. But I say this to point out that: yes, there are also critical measures in the report to improve this part of cyber attacks and hybrid threats that we are all witnessing. They're not just talking. What is noted in the Report and in the strategic documents is that it is necessary both at national and Union level within the European Union and NATO to continue to promote a comprehensive approach to security. The report noted that, in order to prevent, counter terrorism other than the obligations of the institutions, this must also be a commitment of the whole society. You know, last year, a Law on Counterterrorism was adopted, in which, for the first time in legislation, we regulated the action on counter-terrorism, I repeat, not counter-terrorism. The laws, the commitments of the individual institutions were clearly defined... of the Council of Ministers, of ministries, of National Headquarters, municipalities. The restrictions of certain groups of people, individuals, when necessary to counter, prevent the dangers of certain terrorist activities, of course, by taking restrictive measures from the court and were laid down in this Bill, which limits certain rights to the danger of citizens, a group of citizens, the right to movement and the right to use communications, the free movement and the right to use urban transport in the event of a terrorist act or its consequences. This is on the legal level and in public view. This bill was passed responsibly enough by the National Assembly without politicising itself, because we needed such a legislative settlement. The report noted, of course, that the National Security Strategy should be addressed. It was adopted in 2011, based on the conclusions I just mentioned about the radically changed security environment in Bulgaria. The regulatory framework must also be amended legislative and regulatory acts in order to prevent external interference in the management of the country and in the functioning of public institutions. Proposals are also being prepared and they are already actively working towards the integrated development of the Sector Security and allocation of resources to individual state bodies and structures over the next five years. This is also the subject of discussion in the various committees, and I also speak as the President of the Commission, which I chair. To develop specific plans, I would like to ask to fill in the personnel needs of the Security Sector and measures to increase its qualification, motivation and prestige, including the Bulgarian Army, as well as re-arming, and increasing the costs of defence, and reaching 2% of the gross domestic product with a horizon for implementation 2024. Yeah, there was a debate at the Services Control Commission. Opinions and opinions were given on the opinions included in the Report, but in the discussion it turned out that what was expressed as an opinion was not included in the Report in the way in which some colleagues represented it. I need to read the report carefully, every word is with me, it is 112 pages, it is not just a few pages, and it really covers all security policies, and I repeat the subject in the different sectors in business, social life, where in detail legislative changes can be introduced, such changes are introduced, is also subject to consideration in other committees. So I call on us to approach this responsibly, because it really does not have to be politicised. You have heard that some of the committees, the secretary representing the report and the National Security Council, have also expressed an opinion that yes, some of the comments will be adopted. I propose that we approach responsibly, not politicize and support the report on the state of national security in Bulgaria 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u271	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u272	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Krastev, welcome! Mr. Chairman, I would like to start with a question - not - but a finding that according to art. 33, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, when it comes to bills and other..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... When the document is submitted by the Council of Ministers, a member of the Council of Ministers or Deputy Minister shall be heard. You decide that I do not insist on all this, but if the report is adopted, how legitimate will our decision be? Nothing against the present Dr. Krastev, on the contrary I believe that he is one of the most prepared people on security issues in the Council of Ministers. So I'm putting the question in principle. Regarding the report, it would be good to know that this report was not adopted in two important committees.................................................................................................................................................................. Just for information! So as not to give the impression that everything is okay! I will start with the motives for the draft decision, which quotes the dangers of foreign policy. Interestingly, here in these dangers of foreign policy nature, there is nowhere to mention that danger that we will be talking about in a moment, which is on page 4. 11. I'm not giving her priority under any circumstances. But regarding the contents of the report, I would like to say that there are significant gaps in important aspects and directions of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. I mean specifically and precisely! There are no priority sections, such as civil security, an extremely important type of security aspect with all its dimensions. Now, how legitimate is our decision going to be? There is no dimension of the transport security of the Republic of Bulgaria as a kind of security if you want. I am even surprised, Mr President, how so the Transport Commission has not been allocated the report on the matter, provided that, let us say, it is allocated to such committees as the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Let's just say that a few days ago it was understood that Bulgaria is under the very grave condition of a criminal procedure because of dangerous railway transport. A very important dimension of transport security, such as air security, has also found no place in the Report. I'm not saying "airman," I'm saying "airman." And where are the security aspects of the Sofia Metropolitan as the most important part of critical infrastructure, honourable Members? It is undoubtedly the target of terrorist acts, evident from many European capitals and that in Russia. What is the state of the security system there at the airports, at the stations? So, please, let us be objective when we talk about something called a policy for protecting the interests, namely national security. I do not see it in the Report we discussed it with our colleagues and that section, which is extremely important, for the common European security that we call........................................................................................... Bulgaria is part of the external border of the European Union, its southeast. We don't mention a word about border security and what might lead us to a breakthrough in it. And there are breakthroughs. Even this morning, we talked about this with colleagues, after a TV broadcast about the state of the engineering-prevention facility, not as much as those who serve it, what they did. From there, of course, there are a number of other threats. The attempts to circumvent this facility by sea have begun, and on the Black Sea. Two drastic cases have already been reported. All this passes in the aquatory of the Black Sea, along the aquatory of the Bulgarian territorial waters. Where are the diplomatic security issues of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Report? You mean the security of diplomatic and consular missions and those working in them? Just a few months ago, when you formed the government, didn't our embassy become the target of a terrorist attack in Kabul? And, of course, the activities of those services that are called upon to ensure this security are, in this case, a state agency. Now I want to say something very important. Where in the Report, honourable Members, did you see the aspects, the problems of the political security of the Republic of Bulgaria and the security of the extremely important European Presidency for us? I'll tell you! Nowhere! Although we are preparing for the European Presidency not from 2017, but from last year, which is the subject of the report. [[GERB lines.]] Mr. Chairman, may I speak? I didn't interrupt others by listening to them! I see that there are people here who talk, talk, let them come and give me a line, if they're that good at the problem. [[Laughter at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u273	Please order in the court! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u274	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova, through Mr. Chairman. Now I'm gonna say something else. There is talk here that the report corresponds to the report on the state of the armed forces and defence. Not at all! When it comes to external threats, you in the Armed Forces and Defence Report will not see an external threat as is in this report. You won't see it in the Military Information Report. You will not see it in the Report and the State Agency. If anyone here is preparing to say:.. Have you read them?.. I have read them very well, I have even done the appropriate analysis and today I will vote for the acceptance of the Military Information Report...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The cyber security section. Only findings, honourable Members, that we have adopted a Cybersecurity Strategy; that we have established a N-number of cyber attacks. I ask: among all those directions on which the Presidency's security system and its infrastructure, such as the NDK, should be implemented, such as video surveillance, such as access control, such as software building and clusters, a bunch of others, where is the cyberdefense of the European Presidency? As long as our cyber defense system is breached and we all know it very well here in this room. If not all, then at least a certain circle of people. Where are the measures and actions to be taken by the components of the national security system to ensure the security of the European Presidency, where there will no doubt be a repeat of the actions to be taken by the components of the national security system to ensure the security of the European Presidency, where there will no doubt be a type of targets gathered? In my opinion, the threat of terrorism is neglected. I'll tell you why! There is even a concept that the threat of terrorism remains up to date. Dear colleagues, let us be clear about the threat of modern terrorism, especially its forms of self-motivated terrorists, the terrorism of lone wolves is not virtual, it is real. We in the summary of the Report, in the initial part we devote 13 lines to it, speaking that it is a threat to common European security, then we are talking about external threats in three times more places. I'll tell you what I mean. That notorious point "External 11, Russia's actions and the consequence of this for a single Europe, for the security of a single Europe. Colleagues, let us let the governments and parliaments of the single European countries make assessments of their security. The report is about the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria, all the more so that we can protect the security of a single Europe only and only if we ensure our border well and, of course, we work in close coordination with the European services. Let's be objective, fellow Members! Against the backdrop of those threats, which are formed by the domestic political and military-political situation in neighbouring countries and their aspirations for destabilization of the Republic of Bulgaria, by that global threat, which has not been since yesterday, is not from 2017. On the Korean Peninsula, on the Arabian Peninsula, we are talking about Russia's actions as a threat to a single Europe. The threat to a united Europe is Britain's Brexit. A threat can also be the actions after the referendum in Catalonia, of course, and all those hot spots that constantly generate migratory flows and waves. Specifically! We're talking about changing the geostrategic balance in the Black Sea aquatory. The geostrategic balance, if geostrategic, in the Black Sea aquatory is maintained by two countries with powerful fleets. One is a NATO member of neighbouring Turkey, the other is Russia. The other fleets of Ukraine, Romania and the Republic of Bulgaria, I apologize for saying so, are in the mimansa. But! But let's also say something else. Do you believe that now, in these conditions, when Russia and Turkey have common energy, political and military projects, when Turkey wanted to buy C-400 complexes, with the intention of buying C-500, to produce them together with Russia, it is building a nuclear plant together with Russia that will fight Russia in the Black Sea aquatory!? Didn't our Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria say Turkey is our friend? Ergo, are the friends of our friends our friends, or the enemies they claim in the Report? Listen to yesterday's statement by the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria: "NATO is not a military union." It would be good for American bases along the Black Sea coast to protect us from Russia. However, dear colleagues, the Americans and any other bases on our map immediately become targets on another map...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u275	Who else?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u276	The one who opposes us on the map of the Islamic State. Thank you. I share what the Prime Minister said, of course, it is in connection with the Report that, in a conflict, we will fulfil our allied obligations and fight for NATO's country. This is not what I share with NATO. I think we should defend the territorial integrity of the Republic of Bulgaria. I have little doubt that any of our NATO neighbours will engage in the activation of Article 5, but this is a separate matter. I say this not for anything else, but because for our national security, there are many, many bigger challenges, including what is happening in the Middle East. What about the demographic crash, 9.8 birth rate, 15.3 mortality?! Any sign of the nation's disappearance?! Where are they in the findings on the state of our national security?! My fellow Members, I would like to say that since the report has not been adopted in the Commission for Control of the Services, I myself and my fellow Members will not vote for it here in plenary. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u277	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. - What's the line? Guys, do you have any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u278	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, first of all, I want an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u279	Time extension, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u280	Colleagues, we are witnessing a classic official security report for the country. I would like to take a stand in the area where I work in the field of health care. There's a lot of space, but what does it say? It's a little like a PR of health management from the Ministry of Health! There are no major moments. What are they? I'm just going to mark them because they're extremely many. First of all, a significant part of Bulgarian citizens are deprived of normal access to health facilities. They are especially from border areas where we have migrants. We have a National Health Card that tells us how many medical professionals there should be. Are they in Ludogorie, in Strandja-Sakar, in the less populated areas of the country?! They're gone! We are witnessing the last days of the situation in Vratsa. There is a real danger that the population in an area will be deprived of hospital, from a district hospital, which is the main element of a health system. The Department of Health doesn't know what to do. And who knows what to do with district hospitals? We privatized outpatient care in the country. We privatized dental aid. We have privatized specialized outpatient assistance and are about to privatize almost entirely and hospital aid. There are still district hospitals and some of the university hospitals that are not private! With what options, with what resources can we influence the healthcare system? Here is the case Vratsa, the case Lovech, the case Stara Zagora etc. If we in Vratsa leave things, colleagues have given up until October 6th for the group resignation of all medical professionals and employees of this hospital, if we remain without this hospital, which provides hospital care and emergency medical care, because the emergency room there is only within the structure of Vratsa District Hospital, how will we react to the patients to the surrounding areas, or will we have some other model? In a moment, we will ask the Health Committee this question to the Minister of Health. It's the meds question. Although we talk very much that all kinds of models are being made to provide enough medicines and medicines for Bulgarian citizens, today again there will be no insulin, tomorrow there will be no medicines for epilepsy. We all know why they're missing, but we can't make an effective model to deal with this, and this is an element of national security. Finally, nothing is said about the so-called unauthorized payments in our country that restrict the access of insured people to the health care system. In our country private payments in healthcare are 46%, while in other developed European countries there are no more than 20%. What are we doing? By forcing the Bulgarian citizen to pay for medical care, we restrict his access to healthcare. Finally, something particularly important, with the migratory flow across Bulgaria, we began to remember some diseases that we had removed from the country's health card. The so-called tropical medicine, which in our time was exotic medical discipline, is once again gaining its influence. We must once again strain our structures to protect ourselves from these dangers. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u281	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Are there any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u282	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Associate Professor Yordanov, I realize that there is no way to break away from your management experience and here you are constantly mentioning bankrupt hospitals. I know that your experience in the management of Plovdiv County Hospital is extremely revealing in this regard, colleagues from Plovdiv also know it. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] However, this cannot be a reason for you to distribute the sins of the managers over the political governance of the country [[Applause from GERB]] because responsible for these hospitals, which we are now quoting, are indeed the management teams. If you are drawing genealogical schemes for who and what is involved, it is good to address the researchers in your parliamentary group, so that you can also draw out the schemes for the draining of hospitals, which today are on the agenda with funding problems. [[Applause from GERB.]] This is important because responsibility is important. To look for solutions is not enough just findings! Yes, the report may lack some elements of the state of health security in the country. However, the fact is that in 2016 there were enough medicines for immunoprophylaxis, there was guaranteed access to health care, there were sufficient opportunities to prevent migratory disease-threatening diseases. We have not allowed any breakthroughs in this regard. These are the health facts. Everything else concerns the health system, the details of the reform that it needs. We cannot transfer to every single document that is being viewed here in the National Assembly, the issues in one way or another from the perspective of our personal experience so far. We need a global view of the health care system. It is an important element of national security, but the solutions will come after we discuss and analyse the situation and make good decisions to ensure in the future the state of the health system such as to protect us from all health challenges. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u283	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u284	Thank you. To a colleague who found the strength right here in the National Security Report to discuss health care. Colleague, it is nice to say how much the debts of hospitals have increased during the management of GERB! How does it happen that in a Member State of the European Union, people get carried away in hospitals, die in ambulances and no one wants to accept them?! How does it happen in a country in the European Union to have settlements where people do not have access to healthcare?! Otherwise you can analyze, make the right decisions. The truth is, however, that the political party GERB ruined Bulgarian healthcare and this should be known. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's part of our state security. That's the truth. It's really your sin, because health care... [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off. Noise and lines by GERB and BSP for Bulgaria. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u285	Mr. Stoynev, the line is to Professor Yordanov. Any other lines? Here you are, Professor Yordanov, for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u286	Hey, mate, tell me what your responsibilities are.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u287	I have no obligations, sir.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u288	Please don't call from the gym. Please do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u289	I finally understand why Bulgarian healthcare is not going well because managers are bad. Dr. Daritkova invited them to the Commission. I will tell them: "You have failed Bulgarian healthcare, not the one who made the limit for admission and limited the access of the Bulgarian patient to hospitals. It's not his fault. It's not his fault who limits the drug supply and pays off certain companies. It's not his fault. Let us not forget that at this stage the debts of the hospitals political party GERB exercises for a long enough time. I can tell you who did the hospital duty at what time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u290	You were a manager during the management of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u291	Such an increase in duties, the debts of hospitals, as at the time of the administration of Minister Moskov, there is no and cannot be. We're paying for something we don't get right now, and we need to figure that out! Today in Lovech, tomorrow in Vratsa, the day after tomorrow in Pleven this will become the effect of the domino. Things have come to an end. Okay, we'll get rid of the hospital managers. You have experience in this regard, Sujukgate, Kumgate, will now become a hospital gate! What's gonna happen to this whole thing? No, this model of health management of the political party GERB is harmful to the country and must disappear! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u292	Any other comments on the National Security Report? Here you are.. People's representative Desislav Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u293	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The last few months this report was announced by the Bulgarian media, was presented to the Bulgarian society as a document which clearly and directly refers to Russia as a threat to Bulgaria. This topic, like the other topics that everyone is trying to ride politically, naturally, was used politically mainly by you, colleagues from BSP. Yes, we from Ataka Party consistently point out and say that we should not have the Bulgarian state, the Bulgarian parties, the government, any institution in Bulgaria to accept the Russian country as a threat. We shouldn't introduce her in this light just because it's not true! However, the subject was used in such a way and we need to say some things here. First of all, it's pretty hypocritical of you. It is hypocritical because when you are in the government, I will remind you that then your military minister Angel Naydenov says about Russia: "This is a continuous presence, although Russian planes do not enter our airspace. They're not only a challenge, they're also a provocation. You don't think they're flying over the Black Sea for harmless walks, or to wave their wings on floating ships and tourists flying the beaches? At the same time, when we now accept this Report, what is the Bulgarian country trying to do, the Bulgarian government? Russian gas to be included here in the hub, in Bulgaria, to become a carrier of Russian gas. We are trying in every way to normalize our relations with Russia. Therefore, for us from Ataka, to clarify this statement, I am doing it on behalf of the MPs from the party. Ataka, and, of course, the voters of the party Ataka, for us this is not acceptable, this is not a balanced report, as it is modern to say. I also have something else to say here that I should have started with and is extremely important. This report was written at the beginning of this year in March and April. He then ruled the caretaker government appointed by President Radev. Take it this way. President Radev is obviously going to talk a lot about him, but he and his appointed people refer to Russia as a threat. Yes, Russia as a threat, even of common European security, imagine! President Radev had said in an interview that every day he risked his life for NATO. When we talk about European security, should we not think that, in fact, the threat to European security is not so Brexit. Every other day, attacks occur in a country in Europe. Why are these attacks happening? Because the environment in the Middle East is destabilizing. Who's destabilizing it? The U.S. is destabilizing it. Why is this not stated in the report? Because we shouldn't talk about the Euro-Atlantic partner like this. It's bad for Russia, let's talk. Why don't we point him out and have another fight with Russia?! It's modern anyway. If you think of it this way, you can say that on a TV show, but present it as a position of the Bulgarian government?! For us, again, this is unacceptable. What is more, we even see it as being sought to bring in some type of intrigue, just a foreign thesis to present itself as Bulgarian national. The very text that points out this is four paragraphs, but I did my homework, I read, I analyzed them. The structure of the sentences clearly shows that it is a translation from English. Whoever worked it didn't bother to sort things out a little bit. When it comes to a threat to Bulgaria's external security, let us think about the Republic of Turkey. The report states that third countries had some attitude to identify minorities and minority groups in Bulgaria. Third countries, but they don't say who these countries are. Let's face it, the Republic of Turkey. In the elections that passed a few months ago, parties took part in some coalition I think it was that could have entered the Bulgarian Parliament. It was clear to them that they were directly sponsored, organised, prepared by the Republic of Turkey. Direct intervention in the political life of Bulgaria is this! There would be MPs who are currently pressing green, red or the other button to abstain. This is not mentioned in the report. So this report is anything but not balanced, with these modern words that you use to present a document. That is why I say again: from the Attack Party, from our voters we will not support this report. Please don't let your colleagues and journalists look under the ox, there's no difference in our coalition that could cause any ramification or anything more serious. After all, we are different political parties. If we were on the same page, we'd be a party. Thank you for listening to the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u294	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u295	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Chukolov! You and the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, I, and then made a reply to you, tried in a very cheap way to suggest that this report is being submitted and written, you see, by the service government broadcast by President Radev. Then I asked the clerk, who was a representative of the government, headed by Boyko Borisov, that this report was submitted by the government with a mandate of GERB and your political power and was approved by the government of Boyko Borisov. Please do not suggest that this report is being submitted by the caretaker government.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u296	Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u297	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chukolov! I understand that the love for Russia is somehow trying to monopolize it and make it a bargaining chip for being in a government that defines Russia as a major threat. Perhaps, as coalition partners, you should do exactly that to distinguish between words and to look for others who were once against Russia. It doesn't suit you, you know why, I don't want to go into the details. At the very least, I would like to speak for Russia, but I just want to say that you missed a small fact - the sentence that Russia is trying to restore and expand its influence by doing so, so, so... and the cultural sphere. Please, if this means that Russia is a threat because it increases its actions and the sphere of influence through the cultural sphere in Bulgaria, whether you will resort to the services of the fireman from the Fahrenheit, to call him here to burn Russian books in Bulgaria, and whether you will eventually try to sit down and understand each other in this government is Russia a threat or not? Because we of the Bulgarian Socialist Party have not once participated in a government that would ever consider Russia a threat. The fact that you are part of this government is now a matter of your morality, your conscience and your decision. Please don't transfer the guilt from the sick head to the healthy one. Don't look for any anti-Russian influence with us. We will vote against this report. Not just because of Russia, but because this report is a compilation of various institutions that wrote reports inside that are not even logically related to each other. Russia will be one of the factors for which we will vote against it, because it cannot be a threat to Bulgaria's national security and we rather than be the ones to balance NATO's policy, with this report we become the nightingale that sings to the biggest hawks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u298	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Philip Popov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u299	Thank you. Dear colleague Chukolov, I have before me the report itself, the decision and the reasons. Finally, it is clearly and categorically written: The Council of Ministers proposes to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Here's the report, here's the signature! Please do not suggest that this report was written and created during the service government appointed by the President. In much of your speech, you're right. This report is a compilation of other security services reports that objectively reflect the situation of our national security threats, unlike this report. On the contrary, it poses a danger to our national security, so described inside with all these. I respect one of them. You said to normalize the relationship. How we will normalize relations, how we will bring Russian investments and gas when it says so here: The actions of Russia are a source of regional instability and threaten our main goal of a single, free and peaceful Europe. This is no way to make foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u300	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mr. Chukolov, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u301	Thank you. Dear colleagues, yes, you said correctly in the Commission, when we examined this report, then I asked Georgi Krastev the clerk who presented this report...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u302	He's Secretary of the Security Council...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u303	He's a secretary, but my colleague has spoken. I asked Secretary Georgi Krastev when was this report made? He told me March and April this year. If this report had not been submitted then by the Council of Ministers with the signature you quoted, you would probably say that there is no continuity and something else you would have come up with. As to whether a party seeks to monopolise this or that. I tell you very frankly, we are the only colleagues left, we are the only ones left! 2006 when Condoleezza Rice came to Bulgaria to sign the contracts for US bases on our territory, then President Georgi Parvanov of BSP accepted it with Minister Ivaylo Kalfin of BSP. Then who was against these bases? Who opposed that? Ataka Party and representatives of the Bulgarian Communist Party. There were representatives from many other civil organisations. Then your government, Interior Minister Rumen Petkov, sent the police to chase us around the South Park as if we were terrorists. Yeah, that's the truth! You gave these bases to be on Bulgarian territory. Naturally, these bases pose a danger to Bulgaria, not an advantage. If you think about it, you'll know it's true. So don't try to twist things. By the way, it's fashionable to talk about President Radev now, I'm not going to attack him. I'm just gonna ask you to read it in WikiLeaks and look for what our American partners think of President Radev. It will be very interesting to all the russophiles in your parliamentary group. When you speak on this subject, think about it. Will you take responsibility for what the predecessors have done to the important and responsible factors in your party in order for these bases to be here in Bulgaria? Will you take this responsibility and say: yes, that BSP did! I don't see you doing that. It is only the Islamic State that accepts responsibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u304	Mr. Ivan Valentinov Ivanov has the floor for speech. IBAN VALENTINOV Ivanov (BSP for Bulgaria): Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for remembering my name in all its fullness. Dear colleagues, today a report was presented to our attention, which has the claim to reflect the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. Unfortunately, in the review that I did, not only myself, but also colleagues, we have a rather serious finding that this thing does not correspond to the loud title with which it is presented to us. Most of my colleagues before me talked about it. I'll add some things and expand them. First of all, this report describes the situation in the Middle East in its part. The most interesting thing, I also do not understand it and the discussion is really up-to-date about the threat from Russia, which, to put it mildly, is ridiculous.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u305	There's no such word anywhere! Read this page 11!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u306	Please, Mr. Lazarov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u307	They're making a good point, Mr. Lazarov! Most of all, we do not notice, as this report covers the period 2016 when you were in charge of a number of foreign policy events that directly referred to our country. I will not mention these two countries where there have been turmoil, I will not mention their names, but I will remind you that there has been a very serious debate here on the involvement of a third country in the domestic political life of the country and mainly during the elections. In another country there was tension, domestic politics, which was characterized as a direct threat to our country. Here, in this report, they're not visible, they're just absent. Obviously, the author of this report or last year was not in this country, or he has something else in mind. Yes, Mr. Lazarov, I read this report. In domestic politics, what is happening? The most serious problems affecting the state regarding its internal security are literally written in rows, and especially in Part Three, where are the main conclusions: the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria and the guidelines for development. The main thing that worries Bulgarian citizens is the corruption described in several sentences, but the most disturbing thing is that in the main guidelines on page 106, the fight against corruption and the anti-corruption guidelines are in five rows. Obviously, gentlemen of the government, this topic does not interest you, but it excites the Bulgarian citizens. Yesterday's debate here in the Chamber of Full - time was precisely in this topic and was brought about by this problem. I don't know why you're closing your eyes and why this report is missing. She's not here. Where's the demographic crisis, its resolution? It was discussed that there would be a National Security Council on the topic of a demographic crisis. There's no word for it here. Where is the matter with the National Security Strategy? It is written in a single sentence... will be updated. Have you forgotten that there was a National Security Advisory Council on which cardinal decisions were made on this topic and not with one sentence to conclude it in this Report? What are the roads from now on of Bulgaria on this topic? Not a word! It is said that you are the great wrestlers with corruption, you will bring in the law. This thing in four or five rows here cannot be described in this report. Everything else is a free compilation of various departments that was collected, as colleagues said, without any logic or meaning. This is one of the weakest reports that has ever been presented here before this National Assembly. [[Reply of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] It wasn't written by the caretaker government, Mrs. Karajancheva. It was written by the government of Boyko Borisov 2, and now it is imported by the government of Boyko Borisov 3. Again, yesterday's discussion of the next time proves that the most ill subjects here are absent. And that's the agenda of society! You should know that! That is why we will be against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u308	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Here's your speech, Professor Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u309	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Today it was so necessary that on several occasions we talk very passionately about the President of the Republic, the Supreme Commander, the General of the Reserve Mr. Rumen Radev, and when talking about him naturally, we should speak with great respect and, if possible, not put words that he did not say. That is why I will make a literal quote of what Mr. Radev said on the issue of Russia and the National Security Report. In this document it does not say that Russia is a direct threat to our security. The main point is that the Russian actions threaten the main goal of a peaceful and free Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, just quoted by Mr. Radev, which I think the left doesn't doubt is an exact word for word, shows us that in this case both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers are playing in one tonality, in a range of common music. [[Reply:..... on one string!..]] On the same string, in the same words, in the same libretto. I hope that the opposition and the BSP, who defend the President in war, will not go against the President's words, looking at the National Security Report, and that today, all of us together with the President and the Council of Ministers, will perform perhaps a typical Bulgarian speech by supporting this document. And now I'm going to say a few words: yes, this document has weaknesses. And in terms of Russia, we have to say that he is, to put it mildly, copied by last year's, I can argue, with some literary editing. The pages are almost the same. The Abbasics moved. Believe me, I've been doing paperwork for 30 years! I remember that last year, gentlemen of the BSP, you didn't open a word for Russia. I can get out what Mr. Boychev said as the speaker of the then parliamentary group. I can remind you that the debate on this document had gone to a secret meeting of the National Assembly. Why didn't you request a closed session so that we could hear DANS as some colleagues say they have read these documents? I don't know if they're classified, and they have access to classified documents. I don't know! I'm just thinking. There is therefore a positive side to the debate, however, that such important issues cannot be debated, discussed and sometimes bureaucratic, but, frankly, too politically motivated with internal political moments and interests. Because when we talk about national security, we cannot afford to be politically selfish and consider how this will affect our ratings. Our national security is something that must require honesty and honesty in the debate and in the positions, which is why we at IMRO will support this report. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u310	Thank you, dear Associate Professor Mihov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to remind Mr. Mihov, with great respect to him, that at the meeting of the Defence Committee, when we discussed this issue, I quote it, and in the transcript, he said the following: that the actions of Russia's naval forces in the Black Sea represent the landing of troops at our border. You were talking about national security. The words you quote of the Head of State refer to the common European security, the report is about national security, but let me ask you, Mr. Mihov, when you ask, will you go against the President's words? If his words aren't true, of course you will. But let me ask you personally: the Minister of Defense categorically denied this danger and put another priority danger. Will you now go against the words of your party leader and defence minister? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u312	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Are there any other lines? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u313	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs! Mr. Mihov, if there is any ambiguity about the relationship between the President and the Bulgarian Socialist Party, it is high time it was cleared. The President of the State is not Chairman of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. He has the opportunity to have a stand-alone position on each of the issues. The position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party is not necessarily identical to its. Our position on the findings in the report was expressed at the meetings of almost all the committees he went through, and it is quite unambiguous. The assessment of the threat arising from Russia exceeds any reasonable arguments and arguments regarding bilateral relations. As for whether it poses a threat to the European Union, when the European Union is writing a report on its own national security, let it record this assessment. I cannot understand why the Bulgarian government feels obliged to record the assessment of the relationship between the European Union and Russia? This is the National Security Report. This is what the above says, not about the security of the European Union. Here, it seems to me that neither the government nor the president are aware of some things. [[(Reply from GERB: Hey, Valerie, get us out of the European Union! Brexit did!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u314	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Are there any other lines? Here's your coat, Professor Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u315	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Velkov, with great respect, without a hint of irony, thank you for what you said to me that you replicated me with. I remind you that in a conversation I reminded you that the Defence Commission, a few hours before the President used this wording, I also said that some actions of Russia were interpreted in the Report. As for Mr. Karakachanov's application as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, there are no differences in this situation. With Mr. Karakachanov and my colleagues from IMRO we can often talk without being synchronized in common positions because we have common values. Mr. Zablyanov, I thank you for saying something very important that should be heard and which is useful for everyone that the highly respected Mr. Radev, President of the Republic of Bulgaria, is not equal to BSP and its leadership. This is very important to know and this calms voters and our sympathizers who voted for Mr. Radev. However, I would like to disagree with you that this is a National Security Report and it should not interpret the problems of the European Union. Yes, he does. And the security of the European Union directly affects our interests. Brexit in England affects Bulgarian interests vitally! The problems in Catalonia affect Bulgarian interests and in this sense I cannot agree that the security of the European Union does not affect the security of Bulgaria because there are no borders, no economic obstacles, no cultural borders. Bulgaria is part of a large state, figuratively speaking, in quotes, called the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u316	Thank you, Professor Mihov. Professor Mikhailov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u317	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will be very brief, as there will probably be a closing statement. I would like to return to a topic that was discussed just a moment ago about the health issue. It is impressive, quite professionally, if you look at the report, that, at the point, the chapter of the report, the social security is divided and two specifics of social security are dealt with, and the budgets of these two chapters, subtitles, are virtually identical to education and health care, but if the part of education is really written quite well, this cannot be said about one side, which is separate from the problem of social aspects of health, social security in the context of health. And one more thing I would just like to add is that there is an extremely serious problem that concerns not social security, but the national security of the state, and that is the problem with the production of blood and blood products. There's only one sentence left on this. I do not want to deal with this, the honourable Members of this House, but this is a very serious problem which exists and which is not addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u318	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u319	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank my fellow Members who have read the report after page 11 because there was an opportunity to speak on other sectoral policies as well. We know that every sector policy is a part of national security. What is disturbing in this case is that in one of the comments, in attempts to distinguish between the President of the country and the BSP, Mr. Zablyanov said something very important. You didn't impress everyone, but I want to focus on that. He said this is the National Security Report of Bulgaria and has nothing to do with the European Union. If the BSP distinguishes from President Radev for the words about the Euro-Atlantic orientation of the country and you isolate yourself from the European Union, at least tell us in what direction should we be going to the East or somewhere else? What I want to report to colleagues, everyone bet on explaining what a threat Russia is to Bulgaria. There are no such words in the Report. However, I would like each MP to share here when he reads the report, and I would like to highlight on page 11, for which the biggest comment is being made, whether each of you read carefully about the annexation of Crimea, about non-compliance with the Minsk agreements and precisely in this connection the President of the country Rumen Radev, when he appointed the office and had to represent our country at the summit in Brussels in January, he also supported the sanctions against Russia and not because he does not want them to be cancelled, but because Bulgaria is part of a strong and united Europe and this is what the report says. We, from the parliamentary group of GERB, the forming majority, the Bulgarian government and the country's president will continue to be part of a strong and united Europe. If BSP has another direction, they can state it, but in confirmation of what the Presidential Administration did, too, because I don't know if you know, but according to art. 8, para. 2, p. 12 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security System, at the last meeting, when the National Security Report is adopted, the appointed two representatives of the President's Administration shall also participate by decree of the President. These two representatives of the President's Administration, representing the President, have supported this report, which means that these speculations that someone was trying to make in this direction are untenable. And that BSP is beginning to distinguish itself from Radev, I want to tell them only one thing: Mr. Radev has been elected for five years and we must support him all because he is the Bulgarian President! [[Noise, lines, calls: "Bravo!"]] And because everyone is talking about the need to provide more money, there must be more money, because an element of national security is also that of providing more money, I can only say that just Bulgaria enters the top five countries! [[Applause from GERB.]] So, honourable Members, I do not know what your strategy is, I do not know what your schemes are, which you show and will show, but I assure you that the right way for Bulgaria is the current parliamentary majority, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, economic growth of the country, more money for defence, more money for all sectoral policies and next year to have a report which I hope you will also realize and support it! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u320	Are there any lines? There are no lines. Personal explanation of the public representative Valeri Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u321	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I do not intend to clarify what I have said because I think it was perfectly clear, especially for people who have dealt with national security and should know what the clear concept of national security means. The question is more of a different nature, who understands the European Union? And as far as perhaps your interpretation was best synthesized by Associate Professor Mihov, who said that the European Union is a big country, I would like to warn you of one danger: not to run before the wagon, before the train, or before the taxi, because it doesn't turn out to be one big country. Do not fall into the condition of some of our predecessors from the early 1970s, when what we saw was not the same. The European Union today is what we see all of us, woven from contradictions, from national egoisms, from high-level interactions, from confrontation and from interactions outside its borders, a political and institutional community. This is the European Union: it is not a country, it is not coordinated on the vertical, it consists of countries. When someone writes such reports, it is not bad to have an idea of the European Union from that perspective. Unfortunately, that's not true. I've read the report, and after page 11, there's a number of misunderstandings. I didn't want to dwell on financial, fiscal and bank policy cases. Open up there to see what it is about and how a new incident like the one with KTB can be avoided at all! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u322	Thank you. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The annual report on the state of national security in 2016 is intended to present the executive's assessment of the risks, hazards and threats to the effectiveness and effectiveness of the national security policy, as well as of the actions that state institutions plan to take in the next period, i.e. in 2017. Here we should note, given that there is less than three months before the end of the year, that this report is terribly late and this is the first threat to national security. The formal implementation of the executive's obligations under the adopted National Security Strategy for 2011, the Council of Ministers must submit an annual report by the end of March. National security by legal definition is a dynamic state of society and the state in which territorial integrity, sovereignty and constitutionally established order of the country are protected when the democratic functioning of the institutions and fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens are guaranteed, as a result of which the nation preserves and increases its well-being and develops when the country successfully defends its national interests and realizes its national priorities. I will refer more generally to the report by focusing on a few specific aspects. The report, in the form of assessments, attempted to present the state of national security, but lacks analytics in depth. In order for the National Assembly to have an assessment of the state of national security for the fulfilment of the obligations of the state institutions and on the basis of this to give recommendations to the authorities of the state, as the National Security Strategy dictates, this is what is necessary. National security implies and requires, according to art. 3, para. 2 of the Law on the management and functioning of the system for the protection of national security, analysis of specifics and dependencies in the security environment and early warning of the occurrence of risks, prevention, reduction and prevention of risks, countering threats and violations, crisis management and crisis prevention, as well as identification, designation and protection of critical infrastructure. The management and functioning tools of the National Security System do not apply Methodology and Methodology for the evaluation of the Security System. There are also no mechanisms for assessing the actions taken to the extent specified and the results achieved in order to increase their effectiveness and efficiency. The report cannot also assess the effectiveness of the System, as there is no such aspect at all. Given that this is a condition for cooperation between state institutions, the private sector, non-governmental organisations and citizens, as well as partner countries to exchange information and joint actions, a key criterion for the effectiveness of the System is the security of the citizen and the state. The report does not give an accurate analysis and response to the vision of the National Strategy, whether it meets the risks and threats, in order to know in what direction, how and how much to update. The report would have more merit if it were more realistic and more critical, with a proper place for some vital issues and the reasons for them: poverty, unemployment, investment in the economy, attitude towards minority groups, refugees. The analysis of the problems in education, healthcare is not thorough enough. The extremely worrying symptoms of the demographic crisis and so on. Identification and identification of specific risks and threats during the reporting period is the correct and useful approach. So you can build a base to build on. The identification must be consistent with the indication of the reasons to respond to the consequences. The National Security Strategy takes into account new realities and a new security environment, along with the classic national security support army, police, specialized services. The security of the citizen, citizens' rights and freedoms, their right to a decent life, to accessible and quality education, to work and decent income, to a secure and healthy environment, to feel decent people in a democratic and legal state, to feel protected as Bulgarian citizens. The report must be closer to the individual, to his problems, which, as a whole, define the agenda of society, but it is therefore necessary for state-owned thinking and a strategic state approach in the long-term arrangement of priorities. Formations and policy reports do not give a clear idea of the appropriateness and direction of the activities carried out, but also of the identification of clear measures. Our critical assessment of the Report is not self-inflicted. Numerous and diverse are the challenges to our national security and successful dealing with them depends largely on how adequate, objective and thorough assessments of the dynamics of the main risks and threats to security are, and the identification of threats and risks must be together with identifying the causes. This is missing in the report, and that is why our assessments are critical. In confirmation of the overall assessments, I will address several specific points. Page 30 states that social marginalisation, poverty and isolation of certain minority communities make them vulnerable to the influence of radical ideologies, and continues with the findings, too generally formulated to conclude that the existence of these processes is linked to increasing risks to national security. These findings, although they need to complement and analyse the causes and conditions, the development guidelines are worrying enough to impose more serious attitude and place in the report. That's missing, but not just that. Even in the constructive part, we cannot agree with assessments that are far from reality. For example, the findings that far-right, far-left and anarchist organisations have a limited membership table and do not have significant public support require the clarification that some of them are invited and involved in the country's governance, and there is no way to assess the threat of their activities as low. By definition, nationalism is an extreme ideology and cannot be moderate, as there are suggestions. Further on, there is no vision of the executive at the two points on which I focused. It does not sound serious and we cannot accept that the effective counter-radicalisation only requires the establishment of an early warning system for events, unless the available Union is a technical error, but has been inadvertently and leads to the conclusion that part of the prepared Report is saved by the MPs. The rhetorical question is: why is the report silent on the threat to national security with the activities of nationalist formations and their participation in the country's governance? Next, I will point to one aspect of foreign policy - the activity in the region, our relations with neighbouring countries. In this regard, it is necessary to emphasise that there is no clear position and strategy for establishing, maintaining and deepening our country's neighbourly relations. There can be no disagreement with the thesis that peace in the country is guaranteed in peace with the neighbours, peace in the region, and this peace requires interconnections and investment, much work of diplomacy without emotions and prejudice. Bulgaria must take a firm stand that the Balkans must become part of the European Union and NATO. This also means an active position in support of the continuation of the negotiation process between the European Union and Turkey. This means clear steps in relation to the Western Balkans in the context and of the European Presidency. We now have the historic chance to manifest ourselves with our pro-active position on the enlargement of the EU as part of our strategy to find a decent place in the political core of the European Union. In this regard I will also mention the state policy with the Bulgarian communities abroad. It should cover all Bulgarian citizens without exception. We must take into account the sacred relationship of every person with the homeland and the land which is inviolable, it is once given, to take into account the relationship of each person with the state through citizenship and to work so that all Bulgarian citizens, without exception, are covered by the care of the state. In this regard, legislative initiatives are also needed, and concrete work of the institutions is also needed. The relationship with the state is responsibility, but it also means trust, protection in the face of state authorities and institutions. It has to be measured with an archin so there's no reason to question it. Ladies and gentlemen, the report sees a superficial approach to national security issues, indicating any findings without analysis of the causal relationship of phenomena and processes, identifying laws and regulations, schematically shaped specific policies that should be taking place. This seems to be running out of effort, and perhaps the government's options. It is very likely that in the next report after 4 months we will see them in the same form. Moreover, the assessment of deputy prime ministers who are destroying statehood by eliminating state institutions and are a danger to national security, according to the legal definition that I quoted at the outset, will also be missing. As a key criterion for the effectiveness of the national security system, the strategy first points to guaranteeing the rights, freedoms, security and welfare of citizens, society and the state. In this regard, there is no clarity about how to achieve, no intention is even noticed. Last but not least, the lack of specific risks and threats mentioned next year with specific measures and actions to address them and their resolution, as well as the lack of an effective defence management model. The priorities for 2017 clichéd intentions do not reflect a realistic approach to an active policy based on national identity combined with the positive realities of the country's membership in NATO and the European Union. There is no clear framework for developing complex capabilities adequate to the risks and threats with priority of forces and means of already stated commitments. There is no balance between needs and resources to ensure every single element of the national security system. There are no clear priorities for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The policy for the formation of conditions for unity of the nation, for spiritual progress, for the development of culture, education and social standard, the improvement of the quality of life of every Bulgarian citizen, ensuring his security is also missing. All this, honourable Members, gives us reason not to support the Annual Report under consideration in this form. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u324	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I shall put the following to the vote. Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016 Please vote. 200 MPs voted: for 104, against 96, there is no abstention. The draft decision has been adopted and the report has also been adopted. [[Applause from GERB.]] It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. Some of the colleagues failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u326	Thank you. Revoting procedure. Again, 200 MPs voted: for 104, against 96, there is no abstention. The draft decision has been adopted. Negative vote, popular representative Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u327	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[The National Representatives of GERB and the United Patriarchs are leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u328	Mrs. Ninova, if you want to wait for movement in the hall, or whatever you prefer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u329	It's vital, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u330	Please, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u331	I voted against this report because this report shows the total bankruptcy of the policies of the government of Boyko Borisov. I'm dividing it into three parts. In one part, Borisov's government takes into account what reforms he made in 2016. For example, he says: "We made an educational reform. "In the second part it takes into account the result of these reforms and says, for example, in education: "In 2016 the children leaving school, illiteracy and so on have increased. And the third part is going to go down the same path. That is, we have made reforms, as a result of them the state of the systems in Bulgaria has deteriorated, but we continue this way. We cannot support such a policy. That is why I voted against it! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-05.u332	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. I don't see any other requests for a negative vote. That concludes our schedule for today. Communications of parliamentary control on 6 October 2017, Friday: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer one question from the MP Nikolay Tsonkov. 2. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer a question from the MP Veska Nencheva and a question from the MPs Ivelina Vassileva and Dimitar Boychev. 3. The Minister of Interior Valentin Radev will answer one question from the MP Petar Vitanov and one question from the MPs Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva. 4. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer two questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Anton Kutev. 5. The Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov will answer seven questions from the MPs Valentina Naydenova, Kristina Sidorova, Miglena Alexandrova, Elena Yoncheva, Kolyo Milev and Tasco Ermenkov, as well as Georgi Mihailov, who has two questions. 6. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer three questions from the MPs Nikolay Tishev, Dimitar Georgiev and Georgi Stoilov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to a question by the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski, to a question by the National Representative Andon Donchev; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev of a question by the MPs Dora Yankova and Radoslav Stoychev; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to three questions from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev, Georgi Yordanov and Manol Genov, and Nikolay Tishev, and to four questions with a written answer from the MPs Ivan Dimov Ivanov, two questions, Lalo Kirilov and Radoslav Stoychev, as well as Yordan Mladenov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to four questions from the MPs Nikolai Boshkov, Miglena Alexandrova, Irena Anastasova and Nikolay Tishev. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - two questions from the MPs Alexander Simov and Mikhail Hristov to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev; - a question from the National Representative Sevim Ali to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov; - a question from the MP Boris Yachev to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov. Due to participation in the meeting of the High Advisory Political Board, whose aim is to discuss and detail the programme of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and the Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva will not participate in the parliamentary control. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister for Environment and Water Neno Dimov will not participate. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister for Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate. Due to the running out of time for today's plenary day, I am closing the plenary session. Tomorrow, the meeting is at 9:00 p.m. We continue with legislative activity, then 11:00 p.m. Parliamentary control. [[PHONE RINGING]]
