ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! Please register. We have the necessary quorum. I'm opening today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]] According to the traditionally established protocol and agreement between the parliamentary represented political forces, this first meeting of the Forty-fourth National Assembly is delivered directly on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio. Honorable Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, Your Holiness, honourable representatives of the various religions, honourable representatives of the judiciary, your excellences, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, dear colleagues, dear compatriots! Age gives me a few minutes to ask you to close your eyes and look with your hearts. Imagine, on camera, how all this decor around you disappears the columns, the lambers, the crystal chandeliers, the banks and the floor under your feet even. During the well of time we go where the resurrection of the Bulgarian state is started and Benkovski exits Panagyurishte on 14 April, headed by dozens of horsemen who glamour with their weapons. Through cliffs and cliffs only one or two hidush trails can reach this wonderful place called Oborishte. Tough guards ask: "Who is living?" and the answer is: "Long live Bulgaria!" and after the third watch the darkness is getting thicker and the path is getting thinner, and leads further and further down into the world, to the bottom of a crater, where scary lava will erupt. And suddenly there, in the deep where it blacks like a horn, out of the fires and lanterns rises a big bright ball and the view is spectacular, majestic, fairy as in an antique theater. The first legislative Bulgarian National Assembly! Pop Gruyo Banski with the red patrahill and sword, Georgi Ikonomov the clairvoyant, Zahari the chronicler, Benkovski the flame of unmemorable love for fatherland, and on the church table, carried who knows how through the wilderness, glows the Holy Gospel, and on it a cross and a revolver. The chairman of this first parliament in honor is the noble Panayot Volov. The MPs located amphitheatrically on fern and beech leaves 13 teachers, 11 craftsmen, 19 merchants, some too wealthy, 17 farmers, 3 priests and 1 doctor. Among them - 27 voivods and 34 dedicated in the national work by the apostle Vasil Levski - Yerodyakon Ignatius - all educated, enlightened, enlightened, not boys, not mad heads, but people aware of the historical consequences of the volcano that will cause. They do not think about careers, they do not make deals, they do not compromise because there is no balance between freedom and slavery, between justice and injustice, whether an oath to God and the people with one desire to lay their lives for the freedom of Bulgaria. Nothing more and nothing less! Zahari says: "My insurgents are angels. " The purest and most ideal personalities among the people, the only rewards of which were the ugly gallows and the zapotian lash. Such MPs the Bulgarian people will no longer see until the world is over. They're angels, and we're their successors. He knows no mercy, Zachary Stoyanov. And here I'm going to deviate from the text. I do. Christ was raised up. You're really resurrected. There's a see, there's an invisible world. And in this big invisible world these Bulgarian angels who gave their lives, they are literally looking at us now. They eagerly want us to succeed, not stumble, not fail. Their world is our world, now our concern, our responsibility! He must finally fix our home, have prosperity, finally come the year of the year seven by seven, to bring back the children that we have found around the world to wander for someone else's bread. It's not enough for the trees to bloom outside. There must be no grief or despair under them. I suggest we proceed to the most important part of our work today. Please stand up and repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]] I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! Good luck to all of you. Good luck! I wish it from your heart! [[Extreme applause.]] We're gonna start the business representative. [[The anthem of the Republic of Bulgaria sounds. Everyone's up. The anthem of the European Union also sounded.]] We'll start with the business. I give the floor to the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov for speech on behalf of the Political Party GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u2	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers of the Office, Your Holiness, Dear Representatives of Religions in the Republic of Bulgaria, Dear Members of the Constitutional Court and the Judicial System, Your Excellencies, Dear Guests, Members of the National Assembly! At the beginning of the Forty-fourth National Assembly on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate all parliamentary groups on their presentation of the elections held. The election race was a competition of ideas and this enabled people to make their democratic choices wisely. Under the public support GERB received in the vote, we are the first political force in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. The Bulgarian electoral once again ordered us so that no one could rule alone. This requires a management formula to be built on a solid basis. GERB enters this Parliament with the application for a full four-year management mandate. I thank all 1,470 000 Bulgarian voters who supported the political party GERB, who with their vote reaffirmed their support for real decisions for the country's governance. During the campaign, we have repeatedly stated that we will not promise anything that we cannot fulfil. Our voters are aware that we do not want to make effective policies that appeal only to their populist charge. GERB's predictability is at the heart of public trust. People chose a rational management model against the self-sustaining desire to change or replace. The latest polls showed that nearly half of the Bulgarians expect the next government to be centre-right. A lot less bets on the left-central government about 30%. Our election victory is therefore related to mass expectations precisely around GERB to consolidate the future government of the country. The coalition government negotiations we are conducting take into account the people's desire for a centre-right policy, but the coalition formula, hopefully, will lead us further towards political agreement on national priorities. I am obliged to note my expectations within the framework of the new governance formula that there will be no room for political racketeering. It would be good for such a wicked practice to remain only a bad example of the past. We assure you that in GERB we will strive for responsible and transparent governance, which our country needs today. GERB will insist on transparency and clear principles of governance in order not to be a victim of interparty and internal coalition intrigues. We have already worked under conditions of internal and external opposition and accumulated negatives, including foreign ones. As a result, because of extreme necessity, not because of whims or political selfishness, we have chosen the option to go to new elections rather than to continue to govern at the cost of unacceptable compromises. We made an awkward choice and paid the price of that choice. After all, we won the vote again. However, we want to be clear and clear about governance is not an objective for us. This means that we receive strong management energy only from the success and development of the state. In the management formula, which leads to stagnation, delayed development or degradation of what has been achieved, is not reasonable, it is not socially acceptable and it is not ethical to manage in spite of it and at all costs, as examples we remember in the joint managements of BSP and DPS. I say this in the context of all the reproaches of the opposition relating to the full mandates. The management of our ideas is synonymous with development and prosperity, not with unscrupulous retention of power. Our constituents understood us correctly, judging by the results of these elections. We hope that the general public will also support a similar vision for the country's governance. GERB's management program relies on real solutions for the development of Bulgaria. We offer used mechanisms for the interaction between policies in different public spheres. In this sense, there will be no minor spheres for us, even though we have priorities. GERB is aware that he is taking over his new management mandate in a complex and even explosive international environment, when an organic link between foreign policy management competence, international legitimacy of power in Bulgaria and ruthless clarity on national priorities is needed. We need not only political but also a public consensus on these priorities. We need a common direction in which they can watch parliament, president and government. We know that in the mass ideas of the Bulgarians it is GERB that is the party that enjoys the greatest support and trust when it comes to defending national sovereignty. Today, such an assessment fills us only with a sense of growing responsibility. The political profile of GERB is long known in the country, Europe and around the world. And this is a guarantee that the extreme forms of nationalism, which are represented by the opposition, will not be allowed. Our legislative and management intentions are in line with the European Union's development guidelines. At the same time, we and our coalition partners will not lose sight of the priorities of Bulgaria's national interest. Our legislative priorities are a continuation of the legislative activity of the GERB Parliamentary Group in the Forty-third National Assembly. Only if we are consistent will our policies be promising. Our legislative program is also oriented towards medium and long-term strategies for Bulgaria's development. Short-term legal decisions often remain conjunctural and medium-term prove ineffective. In Parliament we will work with the awareness that for a short time Bulgarians expect real results from us and that in the areas that affect them to the greatest extent.. continuing the reform of the judiciary, fighting corruption at all levels, standard of life, quality education, quality and accessible health care, national security and economic prosperity. Our desire for a high quality of the laws passed will be the lead within this Chamber of the National Assembly. GERB's parliamentary group sees referendums as a working democratic feedback mechanism on the most important and current topics. We declare our firm intention to turn into legislative acts and follow-up management actions the results of the referendum held at the same time as the presidential elections at the end of 2016. GERB is committed to consistent implementation and control of the adopted political actions and the resulting solutions for changes in the country's electoral legislation. We are strongly opposed to the President's idea of amendments to the electoral legislation contrary to the Constitution of Bulgaria and limiting the economic rights and freedoms guaranteed to the Bulgarians by the supreme law of our state. GERB's parliamentary group would like to work in the Forty-fourth National Assembly in the conditions of kindness, impartiality and dialogue with the other parties. We believe that we already have some positive experience gained in working with our colleagues at the Forty-third National Assembly. I am convinced that this is the right way to restore public confidence in Parliament. A central place not only in our country, but also in Europe, and around the world, is the subject of security which is becoming larger and multilateral. Our national security has no alternative and there is no price that is high when it comes to protecting the borders, property and life of the Bulgarians. Driven by such understanding, we will prioritise legislative initiatives arising from the needs of our national security. We will continue steadily along the path of Euro-Atlantic integration. It is growing against the backdrop of the increasing influence of third countries in the Black Sea region and the Balkans. Cooperation between the European Union and NATO must be deepened. The legislative programme of the Forty-fourth National Assembly cannot remain outside the public image of our country during the upcoming Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. We hope through good legislation and political well-meaning to support the process of European legitimization, the processes of development of Bulgaria. This would be a significant investment in the future of our country. In conclusion, I wish everyone health, energy and strength to be at the height of the tasks ahead. The Bulgarian people are wise and always feels false politics. I remind all of us who are in this Chamber that Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic and we have four years to work together. Bulgaria is above everything. Good luck. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u3	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. I give the floor to Mrs Cornelia Ninova for speech on behalf of the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u4	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, Your Holinesss, Your Excellencies, Representatives of Different Religions, Representatives of the Judiciary, Members of Parliament and MEPs, Honorable Journalists, Guests, Dear compatriots! Today we begin the work of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I congratulate the newly elected MPs and wish to work in such a way that we can justify the oath we have just taken in all our actions to be guided by the interests of the people. At the will of the people, BSP is a second political force for Bulgaria. In politics, there are principles to have leaders, to have opposition. We are opposition in the forty-fourth National Assembly. There are also rules in politics to give your people the opportunity to choose freely between alternative ideas and programs. We are an alternative to the political party GERB There is also morality in politics to not betray those who trust you and follow you. Nearly one million Bulgarians believe that we bring change to Bulgaria. We will not betray you in the forty-fourth National Assembly. But before I outline our alternative, I would like to highlight those interests that stand above the party, and a name in which we have also just sworn to Bulgaria. Dear MPs, we take responsibility to make decisions about the future of the country and the lives of our compatriots at a time when complex geopolitical processes are taking place in the world, in Europe and in the Balkans. Taking this into account, the most important thing is to protect Bulgaria's national interest. In the foreign policy plan for us, these are two issues: guaranteeing our sovereignty and national security and our future in a united and strong European Union. For us, the successful holding of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union should be a common priority of all political forces in the mandate of this National Assembly. By the end of this year and the first half of the next will be the debate on the future of Europe. Our position is that we want Europe united, strong and solidarity. Our responsibility will be to bring the European Union through the difficulties ahead. This requires very skillfully, politically, to find the intersection and a good balance between national and European interests. For us, this is external and internal security of the Union; a change in the Dublin Agreement; a migration policy and a permanent commitment to solidarity support towards the Member States at the external borders of the European Union; the creation of sustainable employment and the overcoming of youth unemployment; support for small and medium-sized enterprises; improving the link between education and the labour market; equal access to health; ensuring energy security and efficiency; increasing the independence of the work of the judiciary; continuing cohesion policy to reduce contrasts between regions. During our presidency will also begin the actual leaving of Britain. It is extremely important to protect the interests of Bulgarians who study, work and live in the UK. Turkey's referendum is a Turkish people's decision. We do not interfere in the internal affairs of other countries, but we also have to state strongly that we will not allow other countries to interfere in our internal affairs, and that we are for wherever in the world to respect democratic principles, respect citizens' rights and freedom of speech. There is another topic on which we are calling for national agreement. Relentless statistics show that in just one year we have dropped by another 52 thousand. There are no colors and parties at risk of disappearing as a people. We can argue whether there should be income tax, whether there should be tax relief for young entrepreneurs, but we cannot turn a blind eye to the huge problem of low birth rates and high mortality in Bulgaria. Here, in the Bulgarian Parliament, is where we must, in national agreement, make policies on these issues. Let us find reason and arguments to solve together the issues of our existence as a people, of national sovereignty and security and of our European future. But let us also know that we remain different ideologically, politically and practically. For us the management alternative is: an economy not of monopolies, but of small and medium-sized businesses; respect for foreign investors, but protection of Bulgarian production, Bulgarian agriculture and Bulgarian food; state and municipal enterprises not a party feeder, but managed with guarantees for their development in the future. This week we import: Law on Food, Law on State and Municipal Enterprises and a request for a hearing of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC) on pricing with a question: In whose interests do the state and consumers or the monopolies and their profits work? You can't make an economy without education and personnel. And here we are an alternative. With the Law of School and Preschool Education adopted by you you created chaos in the educational system. We will support you for the increase in teachers' salaries, but this alone will not solve the problems in the education system. We submit our proposals to amend and supplement the Law on school and pre-school education, to finance state and municipal schools, to a textbook, to long-term planning of the needs of the economy by staff and state policy for the construction of these personnel. We respect the analysis of the Bulgarian business what specialists need and propose that we all make a national map and work on it long-term. But without investing in science, in culture and spirituality, there is no way we can make great progress either in economics or in high technology, nor to preserve and develop Bulgarianism. Our most serious alternative in income policy and combating poverty is one million and 600,000 Bulgarians live below the poverty line today. The shocking appreciation of natural gas, steam and water will result in many inability to pay their bills. The number of poor workers and pensioners who live in poverty is growing. On your offer for 200 leva. a minimum pension, we are submitting an alternative proposal for all pensions with the average social security income for 2013. It is worth 800 million. lv. and a policy is possible in the growth of the gross domestic product you bet on, in new jobs, at higher collection rates, including insurance contributions and the fight against disability. To compensate income with the increase in prices we propose to review the minimum guaranteed income, which has not been changed since 2009 and is 65 BGN. It is not enough that the salaries in Bulgaria are low, but many employers also do not pay them, do not import health and pension contributions and are impunity for this. We are putting forward a proposal for a temporary committee of inquiry to gather information across the country and to make proposals for amendments to laws and regulations to put an end to these abuses of workers' labour and remuneration. Dear colleagues, I said above that politics should also have morals. The poverty in the country is desperate. GERB and United patriots promise in your program an increase of minimum and average salary ever in the future, at the end of the term. There is no morality in making people's incomes rise in the future uncertain time, and our parliamentary salaries grow. That is why we are proposing that the salaries of the MPs in the Forty-fourth National Assembly should be frozen, and at the back date it will be the end of the Forty-third National Assembly. Some will say that this is populism for us, it is solidarity and empathy [[Radio chatter and rhymes]] , and a personal example. Health is another area in which our policies will oppose. We will offer a balance of various types of public spending.. medical activities, medicines and medical devices, removal of additional payments, qualification of young medical staff and decent pay for the work of medical workers. In order for our alternative to happen, however, there is one question: corruption, domestic crime, the existing parallel state. There is no way to guarantee national security and fight crime without securing two systems in the country of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence. In your program, you are giving up the commitment to strengthen both ministries with new appointments that are badly needed. We will submit these proposals, as well as provide normal conditions for work, clothing, equipment, means of performance. We are introducing changes to the Penal Code and to the Penal Procedure Code for dropping a minor case, to reduce the possibilities for return of cases, but the great challenge is: do we have courage, strength and consistency to face the parallel state? We all know that it exists, but we from BSP for Bulgaria said it out loud and declared against it. Here are her dimensions: according to Industry Watch and Ac Nielsen Bulgaria lost 500 million. lv. Annual import of smuggled cigarettes. According to data from the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association and calculations of the Ministry of Finance, the grey sector in fuels is one third of the market - one billion leva per year. According to data from the Ministry of Agriculture, there are also in the alcohol sector 200 million. excise duty and VAT not paid per year. According to data from the Ministry of Finance every year in Bulgaria run under VAT drain schemes over two and a half billion leva. In Bulgaria, public procurement is awarded every year for about 10 billion. BORKOR reports that around 20% do not enter the real economy, but are in the gray sector. Again according to BORKOR Bulgaria loses a billion leva annually from reduced concession fees. Behind these numbers lies the wicked model of transition, the guilt of the political class, the anger of our people and the injustice in society. Our great goal is to change this system. We failed to win Elections 2017, but the race is not over.. We are at the halftime. We continue on the path we have outlined, we continue the change and it will happen! Good luck! [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria, lines: "Bravo, bravo! "]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. I give the floor to Mr. Valeri Simeonov for a speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition of the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u6	Dear compatriots, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Your Holiness, Dear Mr. President, Madam Vice President, Dear Mr. Service Prime Minister, Dear Ministers of the Service Government! Coalition of the United Patriarchs of NFSB, Ataka and IMRO are setting for their highest purpose the selfless and dedicated protection of the interests of our Homeland of Mother Bulgaria, and the multi-suffering but great Bulgarian people. In the Forty-third National Assembly, we, the United Patriarchs, achieved no less. At our initiative and request, Parliament and the government have decided to build a protective facility along the border with Turkey, as well as to attract additional forces from the police and the army to deter the wave of illegal migrants flooding our country. This facility is practically finished. Strengthening its security and equipping it with modern means of monitoring and deterring will be a priority task in the next period. A revision of the Bulgarian energy sector began again in our insistence. Parliament has made changes to the Energy and Renewable Sources Act, which, along with other urgent measures, have allowed the cost of household electricity not to be increased during the entire period of the work of the Forty-third National Assembly. A temporary committee of inquiry was set up to check and assess the state of energy in which MPs from all parliamentary represented forces participated. The Commission's final report contains important recommendations for improving the regulatory base and control in energy, and there are also reports of hundreds of violations that have been made available to the Prosecutor General. On our initiative, a two-month moratorium was introduced on exports of raw wood and changes were made to the Forests Act against illegal logging. The Election Code was changed with the introduction of mandatory voting, with the limitation of electoral sections outside the countries of the European Union to 35, as well as the limitation of the number of paid observers by various NGOs, which were in fact a hidden form of vote buying. The sanctions in the penal code for buying votes were increased, as well as for illegal and illegal human trafficking. The Patriots had an extremely important role to play in reaching an agreement on a change in the Constitution, which enabled the reform of the judiciary to begin. We realize that this is only the beginning and there is a lot of hard work to be done in both the National Assembly and the judiciary in order to obtain the Bulgarian citizens and the business fair and swift trial and the criminals deserved by law punishment. The united patriots agreed in parliament and on another issue important to our historical memory and conscience as people.. the recognition of the genocide over the Armenians committed by the Ottoman Empire. This declaration was actually a decision of the National Assembly, was voted by all parties in the Forty- Third National Assembly, except for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, whose MPs dishonorably left when the entire Chamber was standing on its feet to honor the innocent victims over this inhumane and barbaric act. I would like to mention a few more initiatives by the United Patriarchs and some of our programme, which have been adopted by the previous Parliament. The ban on carrying public places of clothing preventing facial recognition became popular as the law on burkas; the removal of restrictions on small distillery sites; the rural cauldrons imposed by the Law on excises and tax warehouses; the hearing of the Bulgarian National Anthem at the beginning of each parliamentary session; and perhaps the most important thing that I leave for the finally "United Patriots" worked consistently and will work to limit the influence and removal from the power of the representatives of the disrupting foundations of the state anti-Bulgarian party DPS and other pro-Turkish clones. [[(DPS lines: Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] What will we work for in the Forty-fourth National Assembly? In the Programme Strategy and the priorities for management from 2017, signed by GERB and the United patriots, the main ideas of the Programme of the United Patriarchs of NFSB, Ataka and IMRO. First of all, the revival of the Bulgarian economy, the introduction of the principle of silent consent in the work of the administration, limitation of licensing and authorisation regimes to the minimum required by the European legislation, increased effective post-privatization and post-concession control, anti-monopoly and anti-cartical legislation. We will continue the reforms in the energy sector as well with a request for the termination of the long-term contracts of the TPP Maritsa East 1s and TPP Maritsa East 3s, with an extension of the life of the V and VI block of the NPP s, with an acceleration of explorations for oil and gas in the Black Sea aquatory, with control over the costs of state-owned energy enterprises, with control and revision of the contracts for the purchase of high-efficiency energy from the TPPs, plant plants, as well as those of the RES, and with the failure to realise non-profit energy projects for the country. A new social policy......................................................................................................... and from 1 October 2017, to 200 BGN, indexing the other pensions with the funds from the revision of false disability pensions, and Coalition "United Patriarchs" will continue its policy for the convergence of the minimum pension with the officially recognised poverty threshold. Sustainable growth in income is our other permanent goal. In the field of national security............................................of refugees and immigrants in the territory of the country and the immediate deportation of illegal entry, police presence in each settlement, change of the definition of minor case with a view to countering conventional crime, the introduction of quarterly reports of the Prosecutor General and the Presidents of the VCC, the National Assembly to the National Assembly............................................................................................................................................................................... In education a change in the system of delegated budgets 2018, support of Bulgarian schools abroad, more sport and patriotism in the curricula. In healthcare, the role of prevention, the introduction of annual preventive examinations of all Bulgarian citizens and blood, urine, cardiac status [[Elevator bell dings]] , staged demonopolization of the National Health Insurance Fund. [[Noise.]] Is it so strange to you that there are specific expressions here? There has to be, to know what we're committed to and what we're going to fight for. In agriculture, we provide financial support focusing on small and medium-sized enterprises, farms and farms. In the housing policy, further implementation of the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Residential Buildings, but with the introduction of an increasing process of self-participation of citizens. In foreign policy, Bulgaria should be guided by a pragmatic follow-up of national interest and non-intervention in our country's internal affairs. Following the path of Euro-Atlantic integration, we should strive for effective protection of the rights and legitimate interests of Bulgarians abroad. We are for Bulgaria's accession to Schengen, we are for deepening cooperation between NATO and the European Union in view of the increasing influence of third countries in the Black Sea region and the Balkans. We support the need for a more radical reform of the Dublin regulation in the direction of unloading the burden of migratory flow, which is now being taken over by the countries on the front line. And again, last but not least, as a top priority, we maintain the non-discrimination of DPS, DOS and other pro-Turkish formations, which divide and oppose Bulgarian citizens, instill hatred on ethnic and religious grounds. Dear colleagues, MPs, dear Mr. Karakachanov, Mr. Siderov, Mr. Borisov, Mrs. Ninova! The elections have passed, the Bulgarian people said their word. It was he who arranged us in this way and entrusted us with this role and responsibility in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. His vote has determined that there will be no other option for a stable government of our country than the coalition between the first party GERB and the third Coalition. "United Patriarchs...................................................................................... The environment in the world and the countries around us is becoming increasingly tense and unstable. In neighbouring Turkey after the referendum, an authoritarian and neo-Osmanian regime is increasingly established, which does not hide its claims to other countries, including Bulgaria, and is increasingly trying to interfere with our internal affairs. The Republic of Macedonia is getting deeper into a severe political crisis, tensions are growing between Kosovo and Serbia, an unstable political situation in Romania, the war in Syria and Ukraine continues, terrorist acts in Europe and the world have become everyday. Between the United States and Russia has been escalating tensions unknown for decades now. An increase in illegal migration is expected. For your information, only in the last two days in Burgas region 30 illegal migrants have been captured. How they went is another question. In this environment we cannot afford to bring Bulgaria into the spiral of political instability and sharp opposition, because it will border on betrayal of national interests because of selfish party and personal accounts. Bulgaria needs a well-functioning parliament with a clear majority and a principled opposition. Bulgaria needs stable governance and government working under a nationally responsible programme. The government must pursue an internal and foreign policy in the interests of the people and the state, be much more active as a factor for stability in the Balkans, seek and find allies in defence of national interests. Bulgaria must make full use of the opportunities given to it by the forthcoming Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The Bulgarian Government and Parliament should not only coordinate their policy with the countries of the European Union, they must influence the creation of a common European policy, especially in the area of security, European borders, migration and defence, and this can only be done if we all in this House overcome party selfishness and personal accounts and put Bulgaria above everything. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from United patriots.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u7	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. I give the floor to Mr Mustafa Karadaye for a speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, honourable members of the Constitutional Court, honourable representatives of the judiciary, Your Holinesss, Heads of Religions in Bulgaria, Your Excellencies, Dear Guests, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen of the National Assembly! First, I would like to congratulate on behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms the bright feast of all Christians and wish for health, peace and prosperity! I would like to express the confidence that true, pure faith may be at the heart of peace, even though lately it is rather a cause for division and wars. Nevertheless, I want to believe that religion can be a unite and a peacemaker. I believe that the voices of confessional humankind and mercy fighting for peace and human rights and freedoms concerned with the future of humanity and on earth will become more and more powerful with a common call and a common cause for unity. I wish I could believe that. The idea of unification was also at the heart of our election political agenda. These were our main political messages of unifying patriotism in the face of the danger to the common. And these aren't just declarations. There's a lot of pressure on our country's borders. In the Balkans it is not at all peaceful and in general in the region and in the world is increasingly worrying. Our messages are conscious solutions in a real situation. Our messages are a response to the obvious requirements of geopolitics in its geographical, historical, civilization and political sense. We have repeatedly warned that the division in society, the language of hatred, the policy of rejection, and the creation of vague majority without value cannot lead to development and they permanently destroy democracy, trust in institutions and statehood as a whole. We defined the early parliamentary elections as strategically important for the country and committed to support a clear programme for combating poverty and the demographic crisis, a programme guaranteeing Bulgaria's European future, a programme that, however, does not allow extreme radicalism and nationalisms to power. And we are consistent in our decisions. Now, at this strategically important stage for our country, it is important to make efforts to ensure successful implementation of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union with the support of all nationally responsible political formations and with the responsible work of all state bodies and institutions. It is necessary, along with this priority, to clearly formulate those national priorities that are a condition for our future common development and to identify concrete measures for their achievement, to realise the power of unification, the need for unification, to abandon political and party accounts and return normality to politics and government. Let all parliamentary parties read properly the results of the elections and the political messages of the voters, take on and take on a responsible and dignified role assigned by the voters, in some cases overcoming their interest in taking part in the governance at all costs. It is necessary to put an end to the division, to hatred, to destructive behavior in general. You can't call for unity by denying some of the commons. You can't talk about democracy by limiting rights. You cannot appeal for European development by leaving behind European values. The greatest political force is obliged to exercise responsibility and will and to propose a programme for the country's development for a successful Presidency of the European Union for the most urgent reforms for rapid economic growth. Only a serious national-responsible programme in the name of normality and democratic European development of the country, of the common, its unwavering Euro-Atlantic orientation, is a solution to this. We cannot and will not support any presence of extreme nationalisms in government, because they distance us from modern parliamentaryism and democracy, divert us from the country's Euro-Atlantic course, from unifying patriotism before it is revived. The discussions and consultations for government are conducted in a way that imposes the impression of heavy agreements, of a lack of value-unifying basis, and there is a need for discretion. Sobriety, reasonable and wise in the interests of the people and of the state, of the general, of all Bulgarian citizens without distinction, without lies and demagogy, without populism and false patriotism. I hope there's no reason for our warnings of disunity and hatred. Let us get rid of this political heritage, declare it harmful to the country today and in the future. We call for such a model of behavior to create a majority on a value basis that guarantees stability and security in the country, strengthening the country's positions in foreign policy, for a worthy place in the Euro-Atlantic structures in which Bulgaria is a member. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Everyone should know that when power is taken over, responsibility is assumed. The rulers can't escape responsibility. In the context of democracy, politicians are responsible and they cannot hide behind common phrases about decisions of the people, decisions of referendums and so on. The accumulated accounts in the management of the state of the country, of the society, of the division are paid in elections. Let us not forget that those who fuel hatred work on the pattern of opposition subject to prejudice are very dangerous. Intolerantness, hatred along with opposition leads to undesirable results. Without objectively assessing ideas, ignoring the leading beginning, the well-being of the people and the development of the state, of the common, national priorities cannot be pursued. Starting to create a government, the attachment to Euro-Atlantic values must be shown in order to ensure the successful Presidency of the Council of the European Union at the beginning of 2018, the implementation of a national responsible partnership between bodies and institutions with clear national priorities and the thought of common, strong regional and international policy. Be healthy! Let's save Bulgaria! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u9	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. I give the floor to Mr. Veselin Mareshki for a speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u10	Your Holiness, Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, Mrs. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable colleagues and guests! They wrote me a very nice speech, too. I'd probably read it well. Out of respect for those who wrote it, all I can say is that it's way better than anything we've heard so far. [[Radio.]] But I can also say that because the fence is ineffective, we're going to upgrade it by two meters before freezing the MP's salaries, we're going to cut it in half, so what? What's the point of all this? What is the point of all this theatre, not to say circus if nothing good happens to the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian state? Therefore, honourable Members, I would ask you for more morality, more integrity, more pragmatism in politics, to make it possible to restore the dignity and authority of the Bulgarian National Assembly, the dignity and authority of the Bulgarian People's Representative, to make a stable government that works more effectively than all governments so far and the ultimate goal of all this is a prosperous Bulgarian state, prosperous Bulgarian business, prosperous Bulgarian people. God save Bulgaria! [[Applause from the "Volja", single applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u11	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. I asked the Quaestors to distribute the draft decision to adopt procedural rules for the election of the President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. They've been dealt. Ladies and gentlemen! According to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria at its first meeting, the newly elected National Assembly must elect President and Vice-Presidents. We proceed to the election of the President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. The draft decision for the adoption of procedural rules for the election of the President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly was adopted. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Tsvetanov has the floor to read it to the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules for the election of the President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 76, para. Art. 3 and Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure for the election of the President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly as follows: 1. Candidates for the President of the National Assembly may be raised by parliamentary parties and coalitions registered in the Central Election Commission for Self-Participation in the elections on 26 March 2017 and by MPs. 2. The vote is clearly also in alphabetical order of the proposed candidates. It shall be carried out through the computerised voting system. 3. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present MPs has been elected. If, in the first vote, none of the candidates gets the necessary majority, a second vote shall be cast, involving the two candidates who received the most votes. The candidate who received more votes has been selected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u13	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Honourable Members, you have the floor for an opinion on the rules of procedure for the election of the President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. There aren't any. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we vote on the draft decision on rules of procedure for the election of President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 237 MPs: 236, against none, abstention 1. Under the rules of procedure adopted just now, I give the floor for proposals for nominations for President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB, we propose as President of the Forty-fourth Parliament Dimitar Borisov Glavchev. Dimitar Borisov Glauchev was born on 15 August 1963 in Sofia. His higher education graduated from the UNWE, a major in Accounting and Control. There is also a master's degree in international economic relations. Graduated accountant and registered auditor. He worked as a financier since 1991. He was a Member of the National Assembly consecutively in the forty-one, forty-two and forty-third National Assembly. He was also Vice-President of the GERB Parliamentary Group and Chair of Parliamentary Committees. With the qualities that Dimitar Glauchev has and with the experience that he gained as MP and as a former Vice-President of the Forty-third Parliament, we believe that it is a worthy candidate that can consolidate absolutely all parliamentary represented groups and be elected unanimously, and it is this nomination that the Parliamentary Group of GERB proposes. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u15	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Ladies and gentlemen, are there any other proposals for the President of the National Assembly and the other parliamentary groups? I won't. Please vote. Vote 238 MPs: for 157, none, abstention 81. [[Applause from AG to GERB.]] According to the results of the vote for President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, the popular representative Mr. Dimitar Glauchev was elected. [[The President Dimitar Glauchev kisses the hand of Patriarch Neofit, shakes hands with the Deputy Prime Minister Ognian Gerdjikov and MP Tomov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u16	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Vice President, Your Holiness, representatives of the religious communities, ministers gentlemen, your excellences, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, honored guests! Today we are here at the will of more than 3 000 000 Bulgarian voters. It unites us with the confidence voted on 26 March 2017. It obliges us as representatives of all voters in this dynamic, changing world to work on an agenda that they dictate to us. Regardless of who they voted for, Bulgarian citizens clearly and categorically set their requirements for us as legislators. It is therefore important that we work and find solutions on priority areas such as education, health care, social activities and security. We are also facing a significant moment for the country. Europe is at a crossroads, and Bulgaria has a presidency ahead of us a time in which we need to establish our role as a secure partner. In the process of preparation, it is crucial that Parliament continue to work openly and transparently, which will allow citizens to participate closely in the decision-making process. I believe that a key word in the work of this National Assembly will be the unification. Remember what it says on the building. We have important moments ahead of us, priority legislative decisions that I'm sure we'll find a common language. I would also like to thank you for your trust in me. I am deeply conscious of the great responsibility we bear in front of our constituents. Things we have to wish for together and respectfully defend are the principles of parliamentaryism. Here is the place to recall that a few days ago, we celebrated the anniversary of the adoption of the Tarnovo Constitution, which laid down the democratic functioning of the modern Bulgarian state. Allow me to conclude with one of my favorite thoughts of the great politician, statesman and financier Atanas Burov: I continue, at the risk of passing for an old-fashioned politician, to have deep faith in democracy, national democracy and parliamentaryism. And my greatest faith comes from a.. that it is a regime that heals itself that it has flexibility, all adaptability, so that it can meet the most diverse and changing needs of a people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u17	Mr. Glauchev, I give up this place and wish you all the best! PRESENTER BREADYTER Glavchev: Dear colleagues, We continue with the next point of today's Programme, and it is: DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR THE SELECTION OF DEPARTMENTS. Mr. Tsvetanov, on behalf of the importers of the Decision Project, will you present the Project? You have the floor, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting procedural rules for the election of Vice-Presidents of the Forty-fourth National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 76, para. Art. 3 and Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules for the election of Vice-Presidents of the Forty-fourth National Assembly as follows: 1. The National Assembly elects five Vice-Presidents on one of each of the parliamentary parties and coalitions registered in the Central Election Commission for self-participation in the elections on 26 March 2017. 2. Each of the parliamentary parties and coalitions registered in the Central Election Commission for Self-Participation in the elections on 26 March 2017 raises a candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly. 3. The vote is obvious and anbloc. It shall be carried out through the computerised voting system. 4. The proposals for Vice-Presidents were selected when they received more than half of the votes of the constituent Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. You have the floor to debate, I'm opening the debate. There aren't any. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. Please vote. Vote 235 MPs: for 235, against and abstention there is no. The draft decision has been adopted. I ask the groups to make personal proposals for Vice-Presidents. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB, the People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB, I am making the following proposal: for Vice-President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva. Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva was born on February 25, 1968, Master Engineer, graduated from the Technical University in Sofia and the Management Department at New Bulgarian University, 15 years worked in the field of machine building. Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB, member of the Committees on Agriculture, Regional Policy and Economics. We are convinced that Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva, with experience, will be a worthy Vice-President of the Forty-fourth Parliament. I am convinced that, with the vote that we will do in just minutes, we will actually be able to create the conditions for a working institution - the forty-fourth Parliament - with the choice of the other vice-presidents, who will be proposed by the respective parliamentary groups. Thank you. PRESENTER BREADYTER Glavchev: Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. [[Applause from GERB.]] On behalf of the BSP, there is a popular representative Cornelia Ninova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u21	On behalf of the BSP Parliamentary Group for Bulgaria, I propose Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov, born on October 24, 1965, graduated from Sofia University, lecturer at Sofia University, PhD in Political Sciences, MP at the 40th and 40th National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u22	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. [[Applause.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of United patriots, the People's Representative Krasimir Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u23	Mr. President, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of United Patriots, the proposal is Yavor Bojilov Notev graduated law at Sofia University, a lawyer with great practice, MP in the Forty-first, Forty-second and Forty-third National Assembly. In the Forty-fourth National Assembly is Vice-President of the Legal Commission, in the Forty-third National Assembly.. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Thank you. PRESENTER GAVEN: Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. [[Applause.]] On behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the People's Representative Yordan Tsonev. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I propose as Vice-President of the National Assembly Dr. Nighyar Jafer. Dr. Jaffer is a prominent and well-established Bulgarian parliamentarians, MP at the Fortyth, Forty-Fourth and Second National Assembly, member, Vice-President and Chairman of the Committee on Health at the Forty-second National Assembly. We believe that Mrs. Jaffer will perform this post with dignity. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u25	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. And on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, please come in. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Stefanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u26	Mr. President, Madam Vice President, Your Holiness, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! [[GERB lines.]] PRESENT BREADYTER VOICE: Please order in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u27	We are proposing Mr Veselin Mareshki as Vice-President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u28	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u29	Mr. Veselin Mareshki was born on 26 March 1967, with a higher education. We believe he will perform a genuine, honorable vice-presidential position. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Stefanova. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate and we're going to vote. According to the rules adopted in the previous draft decision, the nominations are voted on. We are voting on all five proposals on one of each parliamentary group. Please vote. Vote 235 MPs: for 235, against and abstention there is no. Tsveta Karayancheva, Valeri Zablyanov, Yavor Notev, Nigiar Jafer and Veselin Mareshki were elected Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. Please take your seats. [[Loud applause. Tsveta Karayancheva kisses Patriarch Neofit's hand. The Vice-Presidents shake hands with President Dimitar Glauchev and take their seats.]] Let's continue with: PROJECT DECISION ON THE APPLICATION OF RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. The National Assembly on the grounds of art. Art. 73, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Forty-fourth National Assembly shall carry out its work under the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly (prom., SG No. ...) until the adoption of its own rules, unless decided otherwise. 2. Cancels the Easter Holiday of the National Assembly for 2017 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. Would any of the importers like to make a decision on the draft decision? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the way I have presented you, the draft decision. Please vote. Vote 231 MPs: for 231, against and abstention there is no. The decision's been made. Coming up next: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO SELECT THE TEMPORARY SECRETARIES OF FOUR-THIRIDES AND FOUR PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. He elected 10 temporary secretaries of the National Assembly "two of each of the parliamentary parties and coalitions registered in the Central Election Commission for self-participation in the elections on 26 March 2017. 2. He elected as temporary secretaries of the Forty-fourth National Assembly the following persons: The candidates will be presented to you by the parliamentary groups. Please come in for personal offers. National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov on behalf of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u31	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For temporary parliamentary secretaries from GERB's parliamentary group we propose Stanislav Ivanov and Alexander Nenkov, who are members of parliament with serious experience and we believe that they will be able to handle this responsible task. Thank you. PRESENTER BREADYTER Glavchev: Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Welcome from BSP, dear Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u32	On behalf of BSP for Bulgaria I propose Philip Popov and Stoyan Mirchev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. On behalf of the United patriots?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u34	On behalf of the United patriots we propose Mr. Nikolay Alexandrov and Mr. Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. On behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u36	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I propose Mr. Sergey Kichikov and Mr. Jayhan Ibryamov. PRESENTER GAVEN: Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. On behalf of Will?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u37	We offer Mr. Simeon Naydenov and Mr. Slavi Netzov from the Political Party. PRESENTER BREADYTER Glavchev: Thank you, dear Mrs. Stefanova. Honourable Members, you have the floor for comments on your submitted applications. I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote your proposals Project for a decision, as well as the personnel of the Secretaries of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 230 MPs: for 229, against 1, no abstentions. The draft decision has been adopted. Coming up next: PROJECT FOR THE DECISION OF THE SELECTION OF A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR WORKING THE PROJECT OF RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND THE WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. The National Assembly on the grounds of art. Art. 73, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. He established a temporary commission for the preparation of the Draft Rules for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly in a composition of 22 Members of Parliament, of which 9 by the Political Party GERB, 7 by Coalition.BSP for Bulgaria, 3 by Coalition.Volja................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2. Rules on the organization and activities of the National Assembly (prom., SG No. ...) became the Draft Rules for the Organization and Activity of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. The time limit for written proposals by the Members of the National Assembly for amendments and/or additions to the Project shall be five days. 3. Selects the Management and Composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: You have the floor of the parliamentary groups for personal proposals for composition and leadership of the Temporary Committee on Draft Rules for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. From the Parliamentary Group of GERB - staff of the Temporary Commission? You have the floor, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB, we propose as members of the Temporary Commission for the elaboration of the Draft Rules for the Organization and Activity of the Forty-fourth National Assembly in alphabetical order: Alexander Rumenov Nenkov, Altimir Adamov, Danail Kirilov, Desislava Atanasova, Ekaterina Gecheva Zaharieva, Snezhana Dukova, Stanislav Ivanov, Stoyan Passev and Tsveta Karayancheva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. The BSP Parliamentary Group is here to see you, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u40	On behalf of the BSP Parliamentary Group for Bulgaria I propose: Anton Kutev, Valeri Zablyanov, Zhelyo Boychev, Dora Yankova, Ivan Ivanov, Krasimir Yankov and Philip Popov. Thank you. PRESENTER BREADYTER Glavchev: Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. On behalf of the United patriots, you have the floor, dear Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u41	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of United patriots we offer our worthy associates Christian Mitev, Emil Simeonov and Nikolay Alexandrov. [[Noise, raging and single applause.]] PRESENTER GAVEN: Thank you, dear Mr Simeonov. On behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, come in, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u42	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we propose as Commissioners Mr Hamid Hamid and Mr Kamen Kostadinov. Mr. Chairman, I'm paying attention to miscalculations.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u43	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. From the party of Volya. Welcome, Mrs. Stefanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u44	We offer Polina Hristova from the Political Party.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u45	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stefanova. You have the floor, honourable Members, for speeches. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for Commission guidance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we propose Daniel Kirilov as Chairman of the Temporary Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-19.u47	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Any other suggestions? I won't. We are voting on the draft decision in full, together with the proposed staff and the proposed chairman, Danail Kirilov. Vote 231 MPs: for 229, against 1, abstention 1. The decision, as presented to you, has been accepted. Messages: To the chairman of the forty-fourth National Assembly: "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 12 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly were held a general meeting of the MPs elected from multi-manded electoral districts with the registration of the Political Party GERB at the parliamentary elections held on 26 March 2017, which decided: 1. He formed a parliamentary group of MPs elected with the registration of the Political Party GERB in the parliamentary elections held on 26 March 2017. 2. The name of the parliamentary group is Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB. 3. The management of the parliamentary group shall be composed of: President Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov; Vice-Presidents Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev and Snezhana Georgieva Dukova; Secretary Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov. The same message we have from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. "Dear Mr. Chairman, in connection with art. Art. 13 and art. 14 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly were held a general meeting of the MPs elected with the ballot of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria (Bulgaria) in the elections for the Forty-fourth National Assembly, held on 26 March 2017. On the basis of art. 44, para. 2 of the Statute of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and Section III, art. 12 of the Treaty establishing a Coalition of Parties "BSP for Bulgaria" on 7 February 2017 for participation in the elections on 18 April 2017 was held a general meeting of the MPs elected with the ballot of a Coalition "BSP for Bulgaria" in the elections for the 40th and fourth National Assembly held on 26 March 2017. The General Assembly has decided: 1. He formed a parliamentary group of MPs, selected with the list of Coalition of parties "BSP" for Bulgaria. 2. The name of the parliamentary group is the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria. 3. He elected Cornelia Petrova Ninova as Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. 4. Chooses a leadership of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Mr. Anton Konstantinov Koutev, Vice-President; Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - Vice-President; Ms. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev, Vice-President; Krum Kostadinov Zarkov, Vice-President; Kristian Ivanov Vigenin, Secretary; Georgi Chenkov Tarnovalyski Secretary; Filip Stefanov Popov Secretary; Elena Nikolova Yoncheva There's an app to the message. The next one is from the group "United Patriarchs," "NFSB," "Attack" and "VMRO": On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 12 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were held a general meeting of the Members of the National Assembly elected in multi-mandatory electoral regions with the registration of Coalition by parties.. United Patriots....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1. He formed a parliamentary group of MPs elected with the registration of the Coalition by parties "United Patriarchs" "NFSB," "Ataka" and "VMRO" in the parliamentary elections held on 26 March 2017. 2. The name of the parliamentary group is "United Patriarchs." 3. The management of the parliamentary group shall be composed of: co-chairs - Valeri Simeonov, Volen Siderov and Krasimir Karakachanov; Vice-Presidents Iskren Veselinov, Desislav Chukolov and Valentin Kasabov; Secretaries Hristian Mitev, Nikolay Alexandrov and Julian Angelov. There's an app to the message. The next message is from the Parliamentary Group "Movement for Rights and Freedoms": We hereby inform you that the MPs of the Political Party "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" decided to form a parliamentary group named "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" at a meeting held on 18 April 2017. All necessary conditions under art. are fulfilled. Art. 12, Art. Art. 13 and art. 14 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. There is a minimum number of MPs required to form a parliamentary group, each of which does not belong to another parliamentary group. Please, on the basis of art. 13, para. 2 and para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to register the Parliamentary Group on Rights and Freedoms and its leadership in the special register of the National Assembly and this fact to be announced at the first session of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, which we are doing now. There is an application from the parliamentary group meeting held on 18 April. There is also a guide that is in the composition: Mustafa Sali Karadaiy, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms; Mr. Yordan Tsonev, Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms; Hamid Hamid? Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms; Halil Letifov, Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms; Adlen Shevked "Secretary of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms." The last message is from the group of the political party Volja. On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 12 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were held a general meeting of the Members of the National Assembly, elected by multi-mandatory electoral districts with the registration of the Political Party Volja.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1. He formed a parliamentary group of MPs elected from multi-mandated electoral districts with the registration of the Political Party on 26 March 2017. 2. The name of the parliamentary group is Parliamentary Group of the Political Party. 3. The management of the parliamentary group shall be composed of: Chairman Gergana Stefanova; Vice-President Polina Hristova; Vice-President Krustina Taskova; Secretary Dora Hristova. The other proposals have already been made and voted on. These are the messages I had an obligation to present to your attention. With this, today's agenda is exhausted. I'm calling the first meeting adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
