ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u1	There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] Fellow MPs, 141 years ago in Batak, one of the greatest tragedies in our history is being played. There is no indifferent Bulgarian before this tragedy. Batak residents join the April Uprising, with which the Bulgarian people declare to the world their will to be free and equal with the other European peoples. They sacrifice themselves in the name of Bulgaria! Today the goal of the heroes of the scary spring of 1876 is fulfilled.. Bulgaria is free, it is part of United Europe. We are therefore obliged to follow this direction with the dignity and self-esteem of their heirs. On a proposal from the Conference of Presidents, let us bow our heads with a minute of silence and honor the memory of the heroes of Batak and their sacrifice. Eternal memory of martyrs! [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence.]] Honourable Members, allow me to present to you the Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for the period 17 May 2017: 1. Draft decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 4 May 2017. 2. Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency for 2017. Import is the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 28 April 2017. 3. Annual Activity Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences 2015 and Annual Activity Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences 2016. The Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The first report was submitted on 11 May 2017 and the other on 24 April 2017. We propose that this be the first item for Thursday, 18 May 2017. 4. Parliamentary Control "Friday 19 May 2017" On the proposal and decision of the Conference of Presidents, parliamentary controls are proposed to start at 9.00 on 19 May 2017. Please vote. Vote 207 MPs: for 197, against 1, abstention 9. The agenda has been adopted. Message. Draft and draft resolutions for the period from 10 May 2017 to 16 May 2017: On 10 May 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code was adopted. Importers are Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. The Committee on Budgets and Finance is attached. On 10 May 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code was adopted. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 10 May 2017, a Law amending the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land was adopted. Bringers are Yordan Apostolov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 11 May 2017, a Report on the Commission's activities for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property was received. The Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property was the importer. It is allocated to the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics and to the Committee for Legal Affairs. An Annual Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2015 was received on 11 May 2017. The Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is the importer. It has been allocated to the Committee on Education and Science. On 12 May 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code was adopted. The representatives of the National Assembly are Plamen Hristov, Albena Naydenova and Polina Tsankova-Hristova. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A Report on the activities of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 was received on 12 May 2017. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 16 May 2017, a Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period 1 - 30 June 2016 and a Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period 1 January It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. The National Assembly received Decision No 228 of 28 February 2017 under the Protocol No KZK 914 of 2016 of the Commission for Protection of Competition, which adopted an Opinion on compliance with the competition rules of the Law amending and supplementing the Food Act submitted to the National Assembly on 18 October 2016 with an entry. No 654-01-126. The decision has been published on the Commission's website. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and to the Committee on Agriculture and Food and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received a Report of the Council for Electronic Media from the monitoring of the media campaign for the elections to the National Assembly held on 26 March 2017. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Culture and Media and was available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. By letter the President of the National Assembly has provided the Committee on Legal Affairs as a specialized Permanent Commission of the National Assembly under art. 19 and following by the Law on the Judiciary, received on 21 April 2017 in the National Assembly an entry letter. No 711-00-1 by the Chairman of the Committee on Legal and Institutional Affairs of the Supreme Judicial Council Mrs Juliana Koleva in connection with the selection procedure of members of the Supreme Judicial Council in 2017, together with the document described and attached to it. By letter, the President of the National Assembly provided to the Presidents of the Permanent Committees of the National Assembly for information letter No 702-00-2 of 21 April 2017 on bills the adoption of which derives from the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union. The National Assembly received a letter from the President of the Confederation of Labour The letter, together with its annexes, is provided by a resolution of the President of the National Assembly of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. The National Assembly received a Report on the results of the control carried out to implement the recommendations of Audit Report No 0300100515 for an audit carried out for the period 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and was available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. Final Audit Report No 030010016 was received in the National Assembly for an audit of the implementation. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Environment and Waters and the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government and is available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly has received: - Report on the implementation of the policies and budgetary programmes of the Ministry of Economy for 2016 and a summary thereof; - Report on the implementation of the Council of Ministers' programming budget for 2016; - Report on the implementation of the Ministry of Tourism's programming budget as of 31 December 2016; - Report on the implementation of the Ministry of Justice's programming budget for the period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016; - Report as of 31 December 2016 on the implementation of the 2016 programming budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works; - Report on the level of implementation of the approved policies and programmes under the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy as of 31 December 2016; - Report on the implementation of the programming budget of the Ministry of Culture for 2016; - Report on the level of implementation of the approved policies and programmes of the Ministry of Health for 2016; - Report on the implementation of the programming budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2016 together with two annexes thereto; - Report of the Ministry of Education and Science on the degree of implementation of the established policies and programmes as of 31 December 2016; - Report on the implementation of the programming budget of the Ministry of Finance for 2016, together with a summary; - Report on the implementation of the programming budget as of 31 December 2016 of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; - Report on implementation of the programming budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2016; - Report on the implementation of the programming budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for 2016; - Annual report on the implementation of the approved policies and programmes of the Ministry of Youth and Sport for 2016; - Report on the level of implementation of the policies and programmes carried out and the cost of their implementation to the Ministry of Environment and Water as of 31 December 2016; - Report on the implementation of the programming budget of the State Agency for Industrial Operations (IAA) 2016; - Report on the implementation of the 2016 programming budget of the State Agency - Report on the implementation of the programming budgets as of 31 December 2016 of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks. - Report on the implementation of the state fund's budget on 31 December 2016; - Summary of the report on the implementation of the programming budget of the State Agency "National Security" for 2016. The detailed report is submitted separately and is located in the Registry for National Classified Information of the National Assembly, Piazza "Knyaz Alexander I", floor 2, room No 280. - Summary of a report on the degree of implementation of the policies and defence programs of the Ministry of Defence, the structures of direct submission of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army in 2016, unclassified information. The part of the report, representing classified information with a security graffiti, is located in the register of national classified information of the National Assembly, Piazza Knyaz Aleksandar I., floor 2, room 280. The reports are made available to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces on 16 May 2017, with the exception of: No. 703-09-4 in the National Assembly was notified by the Deputy Prime Minister of Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence. It was given to the Defence Committee. The National Statistical Institute has received information on: Consumer Price Indexes for April 2017; the main results of the labour force monitoring in the first quarter of 2017; average monthly salary and list of employees in employment and employment for the first quarter of 2017; Gross domestic product for the first quarter of 2017. Express assessments. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. [[The National Representative Volen Siderov wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u2	On behalf of a group? Yes, come in, Mr. Siderov. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group "United Patriarchs." The word has the co-chair Volen Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear journalists and guests! Mr. Chairman, I would like to start by thanking you that for the first time I have been in the National Assembly since 2005, we honor with a minute of silence the martyrs, the victims of the Batak massacre, which speaks of evolution of the Bulgarian Parliament. I would just like to remind you that four times, my colleagues and I have tabled a proposal that the date 17 May be adopted as a date of worship to the victims of genocide against the Bulgarian people during the Ottoman Empire.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u4	This is the contribution of all parliamentary groups. It was unanimously adopted by the Conference of Presidents. Thank you, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u5	For which I thank all the parliamentary groups. I recall that in the Fortyth, Forty-first, Forty-two and Forty-third meetings we submitted this Project. It is said: Project for a decision to condemn the genocide of the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire. Twice he didn't make it to the gym, twice he came and was rejected. I hope that the time has come when we are all ripe to accept this moral gesture to the martyrs who were also canonized by the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, thank God, in 2011. So, in this way, let's read this page of history with compassion, with understanding, so that we can move forward as a nation. In this proposal to condemn the genocide of the Bulgarians, which we have done four times, I remind you that in this proposal there is also a clause to announce May 17 for a Day of Worship to the victims of genocide and to assign the Bulgarian government to raise a memorial complex in a suitable place in the capital. This tragedy we are talking about and honoring today is part of the Bulgarian tragedy. That is why we propose recognition of genocide against the Bulgarians. Several times I have pleaded here from this tribune. There were times when we heard absurd counterthose that there was no genocide, since we are alive today, we have Bulgarians alive, it was not genocide. Well, in the same way, we should deny the holocaust over the Jewish population in Europe or the Armenian genocide, which, thank God, we also accepted in this hall in 2015. I hope that these counterthose and these people, among them unfortunately had historians, history professors, that they had already reconsidered the mistake with which they went out on the stand, to oppose our proposal, as there was a heated political battle at the time. I am glad that there is no such battle today that today we all bow our heads before the victims of the April Uprising, who, by the way, were not only recognized and appreciated, but also proclaimed in the world by people we still care about foreigners. For example, one William Gladstone, four times UK Prime Minister, who even publishes a special book, the Bulgarian horrors, slaughter lessons, or the great American journalist Janureous McGahan, to whom we also owe a monument in the capital in an appropriate place. My fellow Members and I are taking the initiative to make sure that soon there is a monument to this really great journalist, who, in a series of reports on the English edition of the Daily News, entitled "Written from Hell," describes the horrors of the Batash massacre. I'm sorry in advance to read you a small part of his descriptions. I will refer to the paragraph where the most horrifying things are, but I must recall what McGahan wrote in 1876. Only two months after the atrocities he visited Batak and wrote: We headed that way with the intention of crossing, but suddenly we pulled out reins with a shout of terror. Right in front of us, almost under the feet of our horses, there was a picture that we shuddered from: a mass of skulls mixed with bones from all parts of the human body, skeletons, almost whole, crappy clothes, human hair and rotten meat, collected on a dirty pile around which the grass grew abundantly. A contagious smell was spreading around. We were told that here, only in this little churchyard, 3,000 people lie. It was a terrifying spectacle, a spectacle that would haunt me for the rest of my life! I'm done here. Whoever wants to get acquainted with McGahan's articles. They are published in Bulgarian. I stop to call once again, when we prepare the proposal for the genocide of the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire, I very much hope that it will not meet obstructions in this House, with which then all parliamentary groups of all parliamentary parties present to prove that they are Bulgarian parties and not some others! Thank you for your attention. Thank you again, Mr. Chairman, for the moment of silence in front of the Batak martyrs. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u6	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. We move on to item one of the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO GENERALATE STATE MONEARY PRACTICES TO THE BULGARIAN STATE AND THE NATION. The report of the Committee on Culture and Media will introduce you to the people representative Stanislav Stanilov. You have the floor, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u7	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Minister! On the basis of art. 42, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Mr. Rumen Dimitrov to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u8	Please vote on the procedural proposal for admission in this House. They voted 164 MPs: for 164, against and abstention there is no. Please invite the guest to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u9	♪ I can't believe on a draft decision on granting state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian State and the nation, No 702-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 May 2017. The Committee on Culture and Media at an extraordinary meeting held on 16 May 2017, discussed the Draft Decision on the award of state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian State and the nation, No 702-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers to the 4 May 2017 The draft decision was presented by Mr. Boyl Banov The draft decision shall be proposed on the basis of art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on the Award of Persons for Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the Nation. Under the Law, state monetary awards for special merit are: life, periodical and one-off. The funds necessary for the payment of lifelong state monetary prizes for special merit shall be paid through the budget of the Ministry of Culture. By Decision No 254 of 3 May 2017, the Council of Ministers proposed to the National Assembly to grant lifelong state monetary awards for special services to the Bulgarian state and nation, for outstanding achievements and overall contribution to the culture of: Keazim Yasharov Isinov, artist; prof. Stoyan Dimitrov Dukov, artist, director and screenwriter; Donka Shishmanova Antonova, opera singer; Kiril Donchev Georgiev, composer and author of film music; Tatiana Zhelyazkova Lolova, actress; Stefka Evstateva (Kovacheva) opera singer; Slavcho Atanasov Bakalov, director, screenwriter, animator, artist and writer; Nikola Ivanov Indzhov, poet and translator; Mikhail Ivanov Belchev, pop singer, composer, poet and director; Meglena Stefanova Karalambova, actress; Yordanka Lubomirova Kuzmanova, actress; prof. Evgenia Zaharieva Maleeva. pianist; Dimitar Petrov Dimitrov The Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly with 17 votes to adopt the draft decision on granting state monetary awards for special favors to the Bulgarian state and nation, No 702-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 May 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u10	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u11	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will support the decision. The proposed names are indisputable, left their trail in Bulgarian culture and I think it is a good policy for such people to be supported. They must be supported, as consensus, apart from in some areas of foreign policy, can also have consensus in the area of culture. The Bulgarian state is in debt to such artists because the time of transition has shown that the culture was first left overboard and today we have to make up for many things that were left, covered under the carpet and so on. The meaning of a country is evident when it shows respect for the most damaged and those who have left a trail in culture. The problem is that in Bulgaria these two categories are very often merged and those who left the trail were damaged, left on their own. It's a good thing politics is starting to change. The point is that cultural support should not be an accident. Culture must become really a priority and start thinking in the future or in the next budget even to expand this circle of people, to support a wider range of young artists, because that is the big meaning: if we are looking for a cultural development, we cannot revere people who have left their contribution, but also think about some greater development. We will support the decision. Thank you very much. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u12	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u13	Project! DECISION granting state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on the Award of Individuals for Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the Nation HAS DECIDED 1. He awards lifelong state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and the nation in the amount of 700 BGN. monthly, respectively: Keazim Yasharov Isinov, Prof. Stoyan Dimitrov Dukov, Donka Shishmanova Antonova, Kiril Donchev Georgiev, Tatyana Zhelyazkova Lolova, Stefka Evstatieva (Kovacheva), Slavcho Atanasov Bakalov, Nikola Ivanov Indzhov, Mihail Ivanov Belchev, Meglena Stefanova Karalambova, Yordanka Lubomirova Kuzmanova, prof. Evgenia Zaharieva Maleeva, Dimitar Petrov Dimitrov, Dimitar Georgiev Simeonov, Andrey Georgiev Andreev, for their outstanding achievements and their overall contribution to culture. 2. Instructs the Minister for Culture to implement the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u14	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. We are voting on your proposed draft decision. Vote 174 MPs: for 173, against no, abstention 1. The decision's been made. Congratulations to the monetary awards of the exceptional artists in the Decision! Moving on to the next item on the agenda: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE BULGARIAN TELEGRAPHIC AGENCY FOR 2016 Report of the Committee on Culture and Media Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u15	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I ask that Borislav Chalakov be admitted to the Chamber.. Deputy Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u16	Please vote on the proposal for admission in the hall of the Deputy Director General Mr. Chalakov. Vote 152 MPs: for 151, against none, abstention 1. Invite Mr. Chalakov to the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u17	♪ I can't believe on Activity Report of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including financial statement for the period 1 January 2016 On 28 April 2017, the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency submitted No 704-00-3. At an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media held on 16 May 2017, the report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial report for the period 1 January 2016 was reviewed. On 28 April 2017, the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency submitted No 704-00-3. The meeting was attended by the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency: Maksim Minchev General Director; Borislav Chalakov Deputy Director General; Dancho Antonov Financial Director and Ulyana Prumova Director Studio BTA. The Agency's activity report shall be submitted as required by art. 16 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency and was presented by Mr. Maxim Minchev. The report shall contain information on the activities of the Agency, the role of the media market, international contacts, financial situation, the functioning of the National Press Club and the network of regional press clubs, which shall continue to perform public functions as a national information institute. By law BTA is the only official source of information from Bulgaria and the world for state institutions. The Agency provides them with a free package of information services, which includes With regard to the financial situation of BTA, it is indicated the need to add 200 000 BGN of capital to the subsidy. In 2016, BTA, in addition to daily information activities, managed to open a new, fifteenth regional Pres club in Vratsa; successfully held the 13th World Meeting of Bulgarian Media in Prague; hosted the annual conventions and assemblies of the Associations of Agencies from the Balkans, Southeast Europe and the Black Sea region. At the World Journalism Forum in Baku, BTA Director General was elected Secretary General of the World Council of Agencies and BTA and Bulgaria received the host of the VI World Congress of Media in 2019. The report again points out the two most serious problems for BTA, which also apply to many agencies around the world: the unregulated use of information by the national agency and the correct citation of the source of customer information with a signed partnership contract. The report draws three conclusions following an annual analysis of BTA production, which it will follow: to create accurate and timely information using verified and authoritative own and foreign sources; to create niche, specialised emissions for individual target groups; to develop its activities on social networks and to take advantage of the opportunities of information technology. After a discussion the MPs from the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to accept the Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement for the period 1 January 2016. 31 December 2016, No 704-03, submitted by the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u18	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u19	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In addition to asking you to support the report of this important for Bulgaria agency with longstanding traditions, with many years of experience, I would also like to express my satisfaction with the successful implementation of its activities in 2016. Besides that it reflects life, events and promotes the Bulgarian cause to the world, the Bulgarian telegraph agency has a special merit for the Bulgarians abroad. I was very pleased to visit the Information Center of BTA in Bosilegrad and I can say that this is perhaps the only official Bulgarian institution we have in this forgotten end, which in a number of circumstances is located outside the boundaries of today's Bulgaria, but needs the support of the Bulgarian state. As an MP from Northwestern Bulgaria, I would also like to congratulate Mr. Minchev on the fact that a BTA centre has been revealed in our town. I believe that the fullness of the information we are gaining for both Northwestern Bulgaria and for the Bulgarians in the Western suburbs is much more comprehensive and much more widespread. What I am more pleased about is that after the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media we received preliminary information about the plans and projects of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency for continuing the work with the Bulgarians abroad and for the opening of new such centres, and we have Mr. Minchev's strong assurance that such centres will be revealed in Macedonia, Ukraine, Moldova and the Bulgarian community behind the Ocean in Chicago. Once again, honourable Members, I call on you to support the report and wish you a successful job of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency and many new centres, which will also require our support, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. Are there any lines? I won't. The word for speech has the MP Krasimir Jankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u21	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the opportunity, first of all, to say that the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will support the report of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. However, I draw attention to the importance, security of the news and information for which the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency is guarantor. The Presidency of the European Union is coming up and the effective work of the BTA is extremely important. Honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the latest amendments to the BTA Ministry of Interior Act, the BTA building was excluded from the list of protected sites and activities. How far will this create difficulties and is it not a threat given the changed security environment, given the emphasis on the European Union's decisions next year by the end of June? This I would ask him to answer also in connection with the submitted report for last year, for guaranteed work in the BTA building by the Ministry of Interior Security Deputy Director General, whom we accepted to be in the hall during the discussion, do we need to make a change to the Ministry of Interior Act and again the BTA building to be part of the sites that are being guarded by the Ministry, or is it enough BTA to assume this responsibility, as our expectations and expectations are all to ensure the security of the information, and the peace and safety of the employees in the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u22	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Chalakov, will you take the attitude? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u23	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would like to thank you for the good attitude towards the Agency, because this is both ours and yours and the whole of Bulgaria Agency. As for Mr. Yankov's specific question to the BTA, of course, this question is rhetorical to me. Outside the competence, professional orientation and what else is BTA to deal with security. Security is not our power. Our power is to be quick, accurate and correct in the information, most importantly, impartial. For the rest, we simply rely on the institutions that have the experience and professionalism to do the work that is not characteristic and should not be entrusted to us. I assure you that as far as BTA's activities are concerned in the forthcoming period, you can fully count on us to do our job properly and that Bulgaria will really stay where it is right now among the best information agencies. It's not bragging or some naked promise. We are currently there and this is the calling of the agencies around the world. I strongly rely on your support, which we have always received so far, that the problems in the context of the upcoming Presidency of Bulgaria in the European Union, which stand before both BTA and all of us and the whole country, will be able to solve together and with your help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u24	Thank you, dear Mr. Chalakov. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] Mr. Chalakov said he had nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u25	I said to me, this is a rhetorical question. Security is not our power, not our portfolio.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u26	Thank you, dear Mr. Chalakov. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. You have the floor, Professor Stanilov, to present the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION on the activity report of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement for the period 1 January 2016 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 and 4 of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency Act HAS DECIDED He accepted the report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement for the period 1 January 2016. " 31 December 2016"
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-17.u28	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. We vote on the project presented to you. Vote 148 MPs: 146, none, abstention 2. Project accepted. Before closing today's meeting, honourable Members, from the group of Mladost Talents and their leaders will have a greeting to the MPs with three songs at the MP's club at 11.00. We are all invited to hear the greetings of a group of the Talents of Mladost. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda for today, I am adjourning today's meeting. Tomorrow, a regular 9:00 p.m. session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
