ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, I offer your attention to the National Assembly's Work Programme for the period 7 June 2017, including. No proposals have been received by the parliamentary groups in accordance with art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We suggest: 1. First vote on the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill. Importers Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs, 17 May 2017 2. Draft Decision on the adoption of an updated National Research Development Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria 2017 3. First vote on the Law on concessions. Importers supplied by National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, 30 May 2017. 4. Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. Importer....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We propose that this will be the first point for Thursday 8 June 2017. 5. Annual Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for its Activity in 2016. Importer "The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data," 26 May 2017. We propose that this will be the second point for Thursday 8 June 2017. 6. Parliamentary control to be carried out on Friday 9 June 2017 at 9:00 p.m. including: - Debate on asking No 754 05-13 of 17 May 2017 from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov to the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on the Strategy for the Development of Hospital Services in the Republic of Bulgaria; - Debate on asking No 754-05-9 of 16 May 2017 by the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev and Manol Genov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for Multifamily Buildings. Traditional answers to questions and questions follow. Please vote. They voted 201 MPs: 177, none, abstention 24. The work programme has been accepted. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u3	It's procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u4	By procedure, yes. I propose that the third item of the Law on concessions be the second item for Thursday. My arguments are that the bill was tabled last Tuesday and passed through the main committee on Wednesday.. 31 May 2017, when it was also the regular meeting of the Committee on European Affairs. We have included this Bill on the agenda today, when it is possible to meet the Commission on a regular basis, and as far as this Law claims to be European integration, harmonization, I think it should also go through a meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, although Legal is the main one. I think that because in no way did the importers or the leadership of the National Assembly signal that it wanted to earlier, to have an extraordinary meeting, to look at this bill, so we did not do it, but I think it is important from the point of view of the procedure that it goes through our Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u5	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Is there a reverse opinion? I can't see. I think you gave the signal on Thursday, if I'm not mistaken that you want to move the bills faster. In the name of correctness, I will say that out of ten committees on which the bill is allocated, six have been able to see it. We are voting on a proposal from the National Representative Christian Vigenin to move points into the Work Programme. Vote 206 MPs: 97, against 52, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. Notifications of bills and draft decisions received for the period from 31 May 2017 to 6 June 2017: On 31 May 2017, a Report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and of the investigating authorities was received. The Supreme Judicial Council is the importer. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 31 May 2017, a Report of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Means was received for the activity carried out in 2016. The importer is the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Means. It is assigned to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. On 31 May 2017, a report on the implementation of the Law on the Activities of the Courts was received. The Supreme Judicial Council is the importer. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 1 June 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education was adopted. The representatives of the National Assembly are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to: the Committee on Education and Science, the Leader, and to the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 1 June 2017, a Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure was adopted. The people's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs are importing. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 1 June 2017, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code was adopted. The people's representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs are importing. It is allocated to: the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, as well as the Committee on Defence. On 1 June a Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2016 was received, the Council for Electronic Media was introduced, it was allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. On 1 June 2017, a Report on the Commission's activities on the prevention and establishment of a conflict of interest for 2016 with an importer, the Commission, on the prevention and establishment of a conflict of interest, was received. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, to the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics. On 2 June 2017, a Draft Law amending the Road Traffic Act with importer was adopted by the People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to: the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Leader, as well as to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. On 2 June 2017, a draft decision was received in connection with the debate on questions No 754-05-9 of 16 May 2017 by the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev and Manol Genov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on the policy of MRDPB for the implementation of the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multifamily Buildings, importers are the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, the debate will take place on Friday, as we have already agreed. On 2 June 2017, a draft decision was received in connection with the debates on inquiry No 754-05-13 of 17 May 2017 from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov to the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on the Strategy for the Development of Medical Institutions, importers are Cornelia Nino and a group of MPs will also be discussed on Friday. On 5 June 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to: the Committee on Budget and Finance, the lead, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling. The Prime Minister received Decision No 304 of the Council of Ministers of 2017 withdrawing the Report on the State of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, which was approved by Decision No 212 of the Council of Ministers of 2017: The Council of Ministers HAS DECIDED Withdrawal of the Defence and Armed Forces Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, approved by Decision No 212 of the Council of Ministers of 2016, submitted for consideration to the National Assembly. The Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by his order he has authorised the participation of Romania's Air Force in the joint Bulgarian-American Air Training Training. The notification was received on 5 June 2017. No 703-09-12 and granted to the Defence Committee. On 1 June 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 June 2017 to 31 June 2017 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 June 2017 to 31 June 2020. No 702-00-13 in the National Assembly on the basis of art. 20, para. 2 of the Public Sector Financial Management Act received a Consolidated Annual Report on Internal Control in the Public Sector in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 1 January "31 December 2016, submitted by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Sub-Committee on Public Sector Accountability to the Committee on Budget and Finance and was available to the Members of the National Assembly. On 5 June 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 June 2017 to 25 June 2017 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 June 2017 to 25 June 2017 (OJ L 55, 19.2.2017, p. 1). No 729-00-1 in the National Assembly received materials prepared by the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria relating to social dialogue and fair and decent pay of labour, the protection of the workplace as follows: Second Annual Report on the results of collective bargaining of salaries in 2016; Second Annual Report of the CST on infringement of rights relating to the exercise of the right to work in 2016, together with a Final Document. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the materials were sent to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received a Report on the results of the control carried out to implement the recommendations of Audit Report No 0000000115 for the audit of the implementation of the Banking Supervision and Efficiency of the Bank carried out by the Bulgarian National Bank for the period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014 7, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors by decision of the National Assembly adopted on 29 April 2015, as amended by decision of the National Assembly of 21 July 2015, promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union, p. 32, 2015, as amended by the Official Journal of the European Union, p. 57 from 2015 By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. We're moving on to our work program: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE BULGARIAN LANGUAGE. Mr. Zarkov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we ask that Nikolay Ninov be admitted to the Chamber, President of the Union of the Deaf in Bulgaria, and Mrs Vera Vasileva, who is his translator.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u7	It's a proposal. A reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote on the proposal made. Vote 198 MPs: 94 against 3, abstention 101. [[Noise and lines.]] The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mrs. Svetlana Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We are asking for a re-voting from the parliamentary group of GERB because in the debates in the Commission...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u9	I won't let you talk to a creature. The reason is if someone hasn't been able to vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u10	And there's...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u11	Someone hasn't been able to vote. Yes, thank you. It's a re-vote. They voted 203 MPs: 97, against 3, abstention 103. The offer is not accepted. The Commission's Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report will introduce you to the President of the Commission, the People's Representative Dr. Hassan Ademov. You have the floor, dear Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Allow me to make a new procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Mrs. Greta Gancheva, Director of Directorate at the Ministry of Education and Science, and Mrs. Elena Pachedjieva, Director of Directorate at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u13	We are voting on Dr. Ademov's procedural proposal. They voted 199 MPs: 140, against 5, abstention 54. Invite the faces to the hall. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill, No 754-01-6, submitted by Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs on 17 May 2017. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 31 May 2017 discussed and discussed the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill with the importer Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Eleonora Pachedjieva, Director of the Directorate of the Ministry of Disabilities, Equal Opportunities and Social Aids, Mrs. Boyana Alexova, Senior Expert at the Department of Public Education at the Ministry of Education and Science, Ms. Mariana Pavlova, Vice-President of the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training, and representatives of national represented NGOs. The bill was presented by the MP Georgi Gokov. He explained that more than 120 000 people with varying degrees of hearing impairment live in Bulgaria. According to the European Union, the number of users of Bulgarian sign language is 50 000. For a dominant part of people with impaired hearing, deaf and deaf sign language is a major means of communication and full implementation of their human and civil rights. The lack of a state policy for recognition, regulation and development of the Bulgarian sign language is an obstacle to the integration of people with impaired hearing in society and their access to quality education, public services and employment. The importer Georgi Gokov explicitly stressed that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was ratified by the European Union on 23 December 2010 and on 10 February 2012, with the promulgation of the Law on the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Republic of Bulgaria finally ensured the advantage of the Convention rules before domestic legislation. The application of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities as part of our country's domestic law requires the legal use of sign language. According to the importers, the Republic of Bulgaria will fulfil its main international legal commitments resulting from the ratification of the UN Convention with the establishment of a Bulgarian Sign Language Act and will regulate public relations that have not been fully regulated at the legislative level so far. The role and place of translators from and in sign language will be regulated. Georgi Gokov expressed his opinion that after having been thoroughly acquainted with the opinions received on the bill, he found that the scientific recognition of the sign language should not be linked to the adoption of a sign language law. He also stressed that he accepted all proposals for amendments to the Bill to be tabled between first and second votes after discussions with experts and lawyers. The Commission received and provided the importers of the Draft and the members of the Commission with opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Agency for the People with Disabilities, the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training, the Union of the Deaf in Bulgaria, the National Association of Translators in Sign Language in Bulgaria, the National Association of Blind Deafs in Bulgaria and the Association of Citizens with Deaf Hearing in Bulgaria. Institutional opinions, for the most part, point out shortcomings and deficiencies in the proposed legislative framework and rather dominated proposals for amending and supplementing the texts of the Bill. The opinions of NGOs are divided into supporting and negative, depending on their timetable powers in the Bill. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hasan Ademov, Svetlana Angelova, Mikhail Hristov, Milko Nedyalkov, Julian Papashimov and Nadia Klisurska, as well as representatives of the institutions and NGOs. Mrs. Boyana Alexova from the Ministry of Education and Science stressed that it is appropriate to adopt the Law on the Bulgarian Sign Language, which will legitimize the gesture language as a separate language. However, at this stage, there is still no readiness for gesture language to defend itself with independent language status due to the lack of scientific recognition, the lack of linguistic model of gesture language as a separate system with the relevant rules, uniformity and methodology for learning. In this regard, the Ministry of Education and Science has taken the necessary steps to scientifically demonstrate the sign language as an independent linguistic system. Therefore, it must not be rushed by the adoption of the Bill at this stage. Ms. Eleonora Pachedjieva from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy expressed in the first place the principle support of the Ministry for proposals Draft, which is in line with the basic provisions of art. 21 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations, but propose the use of the term "World Language" instead of "World Language." It was stressed that the bill should be submitted for discussion at a meeting of the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, which is an advisory body of the Council of Ministers and is binding on issues affecting the rights of people with disabilities. Ms. Pachedjieva expressed her opinion that the proposals in the draft law require a significantly larger amount of the financial resources compared to the planned budget for targeted aid under the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. In this respect, an opinion of the Ministry of Finance should be requested. In addition, it is necessary to clarify the text of art. 9 of the bill, as the Social Assistance Act governs public relations relating to the guarantee of the right of citizens in the Republic of Bulgaria to social support through social aid and social services, not allowing direct or indirect discrimination of persons, including on grounds of disability. The Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities Mr. Mincho Coralski explained that the adoption of the bill is imperative because it directly affects people with disabilities. He recalled that such a project has already been discussed in the National Council for the Integration of Disabled People in another format, which has also been stopped due to another study of the gesture language. Mr. Koralski expressed his opinion that the state is lagging behind in terms of the possibilities for access of disabled people to the public authorities, which violates their constitutional rights. In her speech the Vice-President of the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training Ms. Mariana Pavlova emphasized on several important issues regarding the bill, namely: unexplained terms and order of entry in the Register under art. 6, para. 2; uncertainty about the place in the Register of higher education persons who have acquired qualifications in the specific professional field; how they will proceed with all persons who have passed informal gesture language training; are those persons who take care of their relatives with impaired hearing and already possess the gesture language; are they validating acquired professional knowledge, skills and competences under Decree No 2 of 13 November 2014 on the conditions and procedures for validating professional knowledge, skills and competences by the Minister of Education and Science? People's representative Svetlana Angelova expressed the opinion of the parliamentary group of GERB, who will not support the Bill, which is schematic and incomplete; also due to the lack of a single gesture dictionary and the existence of different gesture languages in the various regions of the country; due to the fact that the gesture language is not uniform and there is no recognised status of a language system, as well as the lack of a linguistic learning model. Ms. Angelova stressed the need to discuss the draft in the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, as well as a broad public discussion. People's representative Mihail Hristov said he would support the bill, but agreed with Ms. Angelova's opinion. It became clear from the opinions and written opinions that the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill is in line with the basic provisions of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as well as with the resolution adopted by the European Parliament in November 2016. However, as regards the proposed specific texts, the majority of the participants in the discussion propose amendments, additions or new wordings, more detailed and refined written texts. In this way, the principle of support of the Bill is expressed, but at the same time there is a disapproval of the so-defined provisions. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 9........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ He proposes to the National Assembly not to support the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill, No 754 01-6, submitted by Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs on 17 May 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u15	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Opinion from the importer. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u16	Mr. Chairman, are you now going to allow me to state an attitude regarding the precedent with non-compliance or after?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u17	Please imagine the bill. Then within the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor on behalf of the importers to present you with the bill and to hear our opinion as the motives of the importers with whom we import it. There are more than 120 people living in Bulgaria than 130 000 Bulgarians with varying degrees of hearing impairment. Of these, the number of Bulgarian Sign Language users is about 50,000 people. For the majority of them, this is a language which is a key tool for communication and for the full implementation of their human and civil rights. The lack of a state policy for recognition regulated development of the Bulgarian sign language is one of the main obstacles for the integration of disabled people into society and their access to quality education, information, public services and employment. Currently, the Republic of Bulgaria is one of the two member states of the European Union, the other is Luxembourg, which have not legally arranged the use of the gesture language. In some countries of the European Union, such as Austria, Portugal, Finland, gesture language is recognised at constitutional level. We, importers of the Bill, believe that it will arrange public relations related to the use of gesture language as a means of communicating people with impaired hearing to create conditions for their full realization and integration into society, as well as for their enrichment with information from the surrounding world. In accordance with this Law, the Bulgarian sign language is recognized as a complete way of communicating equally with the spoken written Bulgarian language. This Law aims to create conditions and guarantees for several things: First, use and study sign language to enable equal opportunities for people with impaired hearing and to support their social, educational and labour integration. Secondly, training translators from and from sign language to people who will work with children and adults with impaired hearing. Thirdly, providing translation from and into sign language for people with impaired hearing when communicating with state authorities, local government bodies, judicial authorities and other public institutions and organisations. Fourth, but not least, providing access to information about people with impaired hearing through translation from and into sign language. What else are we after with the Bill? Children and young people with impaired hearing are provided first with sign language training in public and municipal schools; specialized schools for children and students with impaired hearing sign language are introduced as a compulsory study subject; specialized schools for children and students with impaired hearing as an aid in the training are introduced bilingual training with speech and gesture; for children and students with impaired hearing who are studying in integrated schools, an assistant translator of sign language is provided, even if there is only one child with impaired hearing in the class. The next goal we pursue with the Bill is to regulate the training of the translator from and in sign language to be carried out in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Law on Vocational Education and Training. It is also planned to create a National Register of Translators from and in sign language in Bulgaria, which will be administered by the Union of the Deaf in Bulgaria. You will probably ask why the Union of the Deaf in Bulgaria. Because they are the only nationally represented organization of people with impaired hearing and are members of the Council. Such an approach will strengthen the link between state power and local self-government bodies, on the one hand, and civil society structures in the face of the national representative organisation of hearing impaired persons. The right of targeted aid from the State to use translation from and into sign language for hard-hearing persons and deaf persons is also envisaged. The costs of using a translator from and in sign language in court, in the judicial authorities and in other special jurisdictions shall be borne in accordance with the rules of the applicable laws on the work of those bodies. With the adoption of the Bill, the Republic of Bulgaria will start fulfilling its main international commitments resulting from the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and will regulate public relations that have not been fully regulated at the legislative level so far. The role and place of translators from and in sign language will be regulated. The proposed amendments to the Preschool and School Education Act will put an end to the practices denied by modern special pedagogics in the training of children and students with impaired hearing. They will be granted really equal access to quality education in both specialized and general schools. Last but not least, I carefully read all the comments from the interested parties. Eight have been submitted to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. For the most part, these opinions are positive. In none of them, I found no rejection of the need for the Bulgarian sign or sign language to be recognised as a complete way of communicating equally with the spoken written Bulgarian language. I'll put two words to the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science. There, on the one hand, it is argued that it is appropriate to adopt the Law on the Bulgarian Sign and Sign Language, which will establish this language as an independent language and, on the other, that there is no readiness to defend this language with the status of a single language and to apply it in special schools as a compulsory subject or in the binguistic training of children and students with impaired hearing in kindergartens and schools respectively. I would note that Europe's position in this case and in the Resolution of the European Commission of 2016 the legal recognition of the gesture language is not directly linked and dependent on its scientific proof and development. The good intentions of the Ministry of Education and Science are praised to take the necessary actions for scientific demonstration of the gesture language by means of a public procurement on the topic of national research of the Bulgarian gesture language.The project "Support for equal access and personal development" of the Operational Program "Science and education for smart growth" which is funded by the European Union through the European Social Fund. This contract will be completed in November 2017. I will not engage the entire audience and all MPs with what I think, but in no case should this study be a reason to reject the bill until these researches and proofs have been completed. There are no obstacles now to adopt the Bill, and in the near future or to record in the Transitional and Final Provisions that, by 31 December 2017, it is necessary, for example, that the Bulgarian sign language is scientifically proven as a single linguistic unit. Many of the opinions contain specific proposals for changes. I and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy have made a commitment together to review each one carefully and, if necessary, even to set up a working group in the Commission, to consult with lawyers and experts all the proposals. If consensus has been reached, let us propose it together with all the importing colleagues as changes to the second vote, although the only committee that has seen it so far has rejected it. I say the only one because the Committee on Education and Science would be looking at it today, but the examination becomes pointless once it enters the Chamber. There the rejection took place with only one vote and I remained with serious hopes that the mind in the plenary would prevail and this Project would be supported, if not unanimously, at least to be supported because it was necessary to overcome the critical moments that exist in the Bulgarian legislation in order to enable people with impaired hearing to seek, receive and share information equally with other members of society. I would like to turn from the stand to all Members of the National Assembly, including those who voted against it, not against it, but abstentions in the Labour Committee, social and demographic policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u19	Ten seconds to go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u20	Please don't kill the hopes of hundreds of thousands of people with impaired hearing who expect us to solve their problems. Support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. The People's Representative Svetlana Angelova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will start from there why the parliamentary group of GERB abstained and did not allow representatives of the Union of the Deaf in Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u23	Just so you know, they're on the balcony, they're here right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u24	...in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u25	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u26	The Union of the Deaf in Bulgaria is not the only organization of and for people with impaired hearing. In the debate in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy were actively involved and there is an input from the Association of Citizens with impaired hearing. They are currently on the balcony, so it is not equal to one part of the non-governmental organizations that concern people with impaired hearing to be in plenary and others to be on the balcony. I'll move on to the bill itself. The recognition of the official status of the Bulgarian sign language is extremely important in order for Bulgarian citizens with impaired hearing to have a dignified and better quality life. Unfortunately, the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill submitted by Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs does not solve the main problems of people with impaired hearing in Bulgaria. Many of the texts are vague or generally written. The bill does not take into account some very important circumstances related to the sign language in our country. First of all, the gestures used in our country are not uniform. In the various regions of the country, various gestures are used for many similar words, which are understandable only to deaf people living and learning in these areas. One of the main problems with the sign language in Bulgaria is that there is currently no single gesture dictionary that is perceived as universal and to be used by all persons with impaired hearing. The dictionaries of the Union of the Deaf in Bulgaria are not regulated and sufficiently covered to reflect the educational content so that this language can enter the schools. The gesture language of people with impaired hearing has not been studied in depth and has not been recognised as a language system. There is no rich, grammatically correct sign language as a means of learning. There is a lack of linguistic model of scientific research, recognized for the training of children and students with impaired hearing. These listed characteristics of the sign language are very important and should be taken into account because the proposed Law-react for the Bulgarian sign language aims to regulate the sign language as a means of communication with a view to creating full integration and realization in the society of people with impaired hearing. There are errors still in the title of the Bill. The correct terminology is the language of violence, not sign language, as proposed in the concept of changes in the regulations governing the application of art. 21 of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. First, the sign language should be scientifically recognized as an independent language, should be legalized as a language system, should be uniformed on the basis of Bulgarian grammar. Then enter as a study subject in special schools and use it in training students and students with impaired hearing. All these listed steps, which are very important, are part of the measures set out in the Action Plan implementing the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. For this purpose, the Ministry of Education and Science has taken action to scientifically demonstrate the gesture language as an independent linguistic system under the project "Support for equal access of personal development" under the Operational Program "Innovation and smart growth." This will allow a legal provision to be introduced which concerns the equivalent application of gesture language in both education and other areas of public life. A working group has been formed in the Ministry of Education and Science in partnership with the nationally represented organisations of and for people with disabilities. I would like to draw your attention to several texts from the draft discussion. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 is indicated that children and young people with impaired hearing are provided with sign language training in public and municipal schools. Generally, colleagues, this is a good idea, but there is no completeness and clarity in applying the provision. It is clear from the opinion of the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training that for a 4-year period from 2013 to 2016, a total of 42 persons have been trained in part of the profession of Sign Language Translator. Another important fact is that for the last four years there has been no trained person by profession who has a certificate of professional qualifications. How, then, will you secure the process of qualified personnel with these 42 individuals to provide training in all schools where there is a child with impaired hearing? In which sign language will the students learn when there is no single sign dictionary in our country? Those important circumstances appear to have not been taken into account by lawmakers. Another important question that deserves to be mentioned and answered is how and where will sufficient translation assistants be provided for children and students with impaired hearing in integrated schools? How will you secure this process with qualified personnel so that this Law really works? Next, the Bill provides for the establishment of a National Register of Translators from and in sign language in Bulgaria to be led by the Union of the Deaf in Bulgaria. I don't mean to pester, but you have made a mistake in the name of the association, which is called the National Association of sign language translators in Bulgaria. The question arises: why would a non-governmental organisation, such as the Union of the Deaf in Bulgaria, maintain this register and not a state institution? Who will exercise control over this register? Why is it that the Law does not specify the terms and conditions of registration, such as legislative practice? Articles 5, 7, 8 and 9 are a reference to other laws of existing rights and thus the proposed texts will produce a coliseum. This fact also shows that it is not working professionally and thoroughly under this Bill. Another important feature that gives us the right not to support this bill is that it is not presented for public consultation and discussion on the proper order of the maximum number of organisations of and for citizens with impaired hearing. This deprives the affected community of people to express opinions and recommendations that could be extremely important for the expertise, quality and objectives of the Bill. The Union of the Deaf in Bulgaria, which has given a positive opinion, is not the only organization in our country, as I said, to people with impaired hearing. For example, it is clear from the opinion of the Association of People with Disrupted Hearings in Bulgaria, received by the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy that they do not support this bill. It has not been subject to public consultation with their organisation or other similar organisations. It is social dialogue and public consultation that is of paramount importance when affecting the rights of disabled people. Next, the proposed bill should be submitted for discussion to the National Council for the Integration of Disabled People, which is an advisory body of the Council of Ministers and is binding on issues affecting the rights of disabled people. In conclusion, it can be said that the weaknesses of the proposed bill are due to the insufficient degree of transparency and public consultation in its preparation. All these facts give us reason, from the parliamentary group, not to support this bill and to abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. - What's the line? Mr. Gokov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u28	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, you must think you've crushed me with that statement. It's a difficult job to do, because a lot of your claims are ridiculous and I'll explain why. First of all, why didn't you let the President of the Union of the Deaf into this Chamber? You didn't let him...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u29	I think that was explained.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u30	To explain my point of view why he was invited. Because there is a National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, you mentioned it at last, there are also Rules on the structure and activities of the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilitiesq and a criterion for representativeness of the organizations of people with disabilities. There is only the Union of the Deaf with Chairman Nikolay Ninov, so we invited him here. So much for that. Dividing and opposing people is not good. You use different gesture points, there is no single gesture dictionary. Since 1970 people have been trained in sign language in Bulgaria and currently in the National Association of Translators in sign language are 220 translators. They have an unofficial register that goes to them. I've been wondering since 1970 there's news on TV, people are explaining with gestures, translating how people get along with each other when they have dialects. You said funny statements: there was no way to provide translators to children because they were few. If you accept the Law after one year, how will you provide translators with them now that they are gone? It wasn't professional. I don't know, we worked together with the Deaf Union and managed to make this bill. Good, bad, that's all there is to it. You will now reject it, I do not know when you will offer a solution to these people and when you will follow your steps [[the President signals that time has run out]] under the Convention, which the Bulgarian Parliament has ratified. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u31	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Any other lines? Mrs. Zhekova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u32	Dear Mrs. Chairman, dear Mrs. Naydenova! Since 2009, a standard has been introduced by the profession established in the Official Journal of the European Union in 2012 and has been qualified by the profession of sign language. The state educational standards are a guarantee that such a state educational standard is created. From the above opinion we see that there are 42 but we cannot comment that only 42 people know this Bulgarian sign language. As you have heard, and during the Commission meeting there were representatives of the Association of Translators in sign language and then it became clear that there are more than 200 registered people in this Association. In my opinion, the study of this Bulgarian sign language by the Ministry of Education is in no way related to the adoption of today's Bill. Here we are talking about a word and it is called a political will and a political will at some point to make a decision to somewhat equalize the possibilities of people with impaired hearing. Why am I talking about political will? If we look at the ratified UN Convention on Persons with Disabilities in detail......................................................................................... In the meeting of the Social Committee we heard from Mr. Coralski one sentence: The draft is extremely important to be adopted now, because such a study has been done before and for this reason it has been postponed. How many times are we gonna put this off? In this case, we are talking about prerequisites for full integration in the society of people with disabilities. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs Jekova. Any other lines? Here you go, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u34	Dear Madam President, Mrs. Zhekova, Mr. Gokov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I will ask the replicators for less emotions and more expertise in their speech. It is good that you have ideas that you have bothered to write some texts. However, it is not important the quantity and number of the drafts submitted to the National Assembly, it is important the quality and content of this Bill. Dear colleagues on the left, lawmaking is not a competition, it is professionalism. Take your time! We have four years ahead of us to make quality laws. [[Replys and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u35	Don't talk about it. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u36	Also remember that the people who sent us here and voted our trust expect from us quality, effective and working laws.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll try not to be emotional, though it's a difficult topic. I'm sure you do, too, even though you speak expertly, feel that emotion, because for people with impaired hearing everything or at least almost everything is about their language. For people with impaired hearing in Bulgaria, it is their Bulgarian language. Therefore, for more than 80 years different generations of teachers, specialists, logopeds, surdopedagosi work for the development and validation of a certain language system to be recognized precisely as Bulgarian sign language. Although the work of people such as Marcho Radulov and Nikola Yankulov has contributed, there are dictionaries, they are not enough and the problems remain, you are right. They remain largely because of the fact that this language does not have an official status which, in turn, prevents it from developing its institutions. Creating a commonly accepted grammatical established and rich enough language, I use your words to reflect the complexity of our time, requires targeted and centralised effort. This cannot happen only on a design basis and be the work of one or another scientific team, which will once and for all establish and fix the language. It's living matter. The existing differences must be overcome both in the gestures used in the various regions of the country and in the interpretations, views and understandings of individual representatives of the community of people with hearing disabilities. That we invited one of their representatives to enter the Chamber, I assure you, we did not want to do so to prevent others. If you had done the procedure that there were other people, we did not know, otherwise we would have been most pleased to invite them to the Chamber. The law gives us reason and basis to do something and make it concrete. He's probably not perfect. No law is perfect. But it is worth it if it is adopted at first reading, let us extend the maximum period between first and second readings, let us fill in the provisions that you think are not precise, let us with the people who are here on the balcony and with experts, see what we can do for this Center. If the Law is voted on today, there will be one great significance. It will bring recognition of the existence of Bulgarian sign language and will allow the organization and obligations for official translation. The importance of these aspects is demonstrated by the fact that they are a major moment in both Bulgarian and international concepts on the topic. The European Parliament recently adopted a month of November last year, with an insinuating majority of 661 votes, by the way, there the debate was not so different from here, adopted a mandate resolution on the gesture language and the professional gesture translation in whose art. 1 is underlined, I quote: The need for qualified and professional translators, which can only be met on the basis of official recognition of the language of the signs at national level and the organisation of formal training, registration and control system. The Bulgarian sign language to be recognized as an independent language system, other than the verbal Bulgarian and regulated by its own rules and regulations, is also the key requirement written in the concept of introducing the sign language of the Ministry of Education and Science, established by an order of 25 March 2015. We all know that this must be done, all of us of international organizations, through the previous regular Bulgarian government, I hope, and the present, to the people who are here today. Because in today's world technological development provides many new opportunities for disabled people, particularly those with auditory problems, but none of them can replace the need for a common sign language. This Law is necessary! It is necessary not only because of a moral, social, or right-to-right point of view, although they should not be underestimated. It is also necessary from an economic point of view. In a country like ours, where we suffer from a fierce demographic crisis, which passes into the depopulation of entire regions, in a country where one of the main obstacles to the development of the economy is the lack of staff and labour, is of extreme economic importance that hundreds of thousands of working Bulgarians with disabilities find the way, first, to the school and then to the labour market. These people, like many people, do not want to live on welfare. They just want conditions to be useful to themselves and to their country. Please support the bill. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u40	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We all have a gift from God to hear, listen, and speak freely. One part of the Bulgarian citizens - people with impaired hearing - do not have what we serve each day. One in a thousand every day encounters difficulties in its expression, and nearly 40 years in Bulgaria has been banned sign language and for 80 years around the world. For me, this is severe mental damage and causing severe living conditions. In general, honourable MPs, genocide on a group of Bulgarian society and not only. These people cannot express themselves freely except in sign language. This is the time to remind you of art. 39 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which reads: Now I ask how this article is respected for these people and how can these people feel full citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria if their language is not legally and legally regulated? We think in the field of speech, so beyond emotions and sensations their rational settings are in a specific language. People who have never heard do not think in the language they know the sign language. Even when the deaf learn formally the language of the country, in this case the Bulgarian one, it does not become their inner voice and the language in which they think. The cruel language for them remains fundamental. We have no right to restrict anyone and in no way to be different from us. Colleagues, I don't think you're losing anything to this Law, but you're winning morally. You win the respect and recognition of some Bulgarians for whom this is important. It is important for their lifestyle, for their self-esteem, it is important for their rights as Bulgarian citizens. I do not think that we have come here to restrict human rights, but rather to support every Bulgarian citizen who was different from us. Everyone has a moral responsibility for what he says and everyone can speak freely. Mark Twain said: "Goodness is the language the deaf hear and the blind see. In fact, that is the idea of this Law. These people can't hear what I'm saying, but I think they'll see this. [[Shows.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Any other lines? Mr. Zablyanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u42	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I personally did not imagine that such a bill could cause a severe inter-party debate and lead to the use of arguments that have a completely formal "at other times" would call it a bureaucratic character. Today's debate is an example of those situations which the Bulgarian people have described in an unnatural language that when you do not want to do one job, you will find many arguments. And a few questions on the arguments put forward here. First of all, I cannot understand some of the arguments that are based on scientific existence or the need for scientific proof of sign language. As it became clear from all the speeches so far, this is a living system of conversation and communication between Bulgarian citizens in Bulgarian language. This is not about some foreign language, it is about our own Bulgarian language and because of physical shortcomings a large part of our fellow citizens cannot use what we use. They communicate with each other before the idea of law comes to light. And I want to reassure colleagues here who are looking for specific names, wordings that have defined a bill for schematic, which I do not know what it means, but it is obvious that there are problems with the Bulgarian language, but not with the sign language. I would like to raise the question that there is no language that has arisen as a result of the fact that it has been voted by law. We don't imagine here that the world is governed by the laws we didn't vote on, do we? And it is no coincidence that in every law above it says that the Law is intended to settle existing relations. We're trying to help with these few articles because here I don't know what you found, as if we're discussing some kind of very big law. With several articles in the form of a law, we try to help our fellow citizens to be able to learn, to pass on their language and to receive help from the state when they need to use it when they cannot pay in court someone to help them and translate when they need to receive some information from the state authorities and when those who transmit their language are registered in some way so that they can still have this Bulgarian language and people who practice this way of communication have some system in common. I never understood the dictionary question. What it means is that there is no dictionary, after it has first become clear from the speakers that there are dictionaries, and that they have not acquired the relevant scientific status, is only an additional argument in the need to have a legislative settlement of this language. It's terrifying that the language hasn't been studied, and I can't accept it. What does it mean not studied after arguments and names of people who have dealt with his systematization and research have been brought forward? Whether the Bulgarian National Assembly in today's composition, one parliamentary group or another will support it or not, this has nothing to do with its existence. Our Bulgarian language within the Ottoman Empire do you think it was used by legislative protections, has been studied and so on? Well, of course not. There were people devoted to this case, working until it came to his book version. The argument that there were words in different regions of the country. Excuse me, I've never heard of anything less serious. Today, if you go to the Tron region, you will not understand 60-70% of what the Bulgarian citizens speak to the local adversary. This is not an argument not to have a dictionary in the Bulgarian language or not to have a literary Bulgarian language. A large part of our fellow citizens use different languages and the fact that someone does not want to be willing to make life easier for our fellow citizens is incomprehensible to me. It's some narrow government egoism, as they used to say, which I don't know what can be explained. Here we are talking about elementary financial support for the use of this language system, it is about that expenditure must be borne in some way by the state or by the budget. Why shouldn't that be done, honourable Members? Aren't we all announcing how we want to help people who need integration on a daily basis? And when we have to take a few legal plays, here it becomes a debate where I really can't understand logic from the beginning. And attracting scientific arguments about the fact that language has not been studied, I don't know what to give them to. Something else under that law. It aims, as recorded in the first, not to create a language, but to help use sign language as a means of communicating with people with impaired hearing, simply to help. It's not about creating it and so on. It seems to me that if there are any reasoned proposals for improving the texts or for something that can be added to this Draft Law, this can happen between the two readings. I appeal for this support because our good intentions to support our fellow citizens, who do not enjoy all the gifts of nature that we have, remain empty intentions, empty talk, and finally come to ordinary party selfishness. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u43	- What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u44	Madam President, honourable Members! We've heard a lot of things in the room, but there seems to be a lot of things left to be said. The first member of the proposed bill states: "This law governs the public relations related to the use of sign language as a means of communicating with people with impaired hearing. In practice, however, this law does not regulate any relationship. Where's that language? Who unified him? Where was it issued? Who uses it? It's not clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u45	Whoa!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u46	Come on, that's a shame!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u47	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u48	We should at least quote it in the Law, colleagues! The law does not say how to provide resources, including financial resources, for conducting the study of the Bulgarian sign language in view of its official recognition by the Republic of Bulgaria. The law does not say how to conduct trainings and lecturers with impaired hearing to stimulate the promotion of this language. The law does not say how to provide resources, including financial resources, for translation and other services that are part of these people's employment. The law does not say how to provide official information to people with impaired hearing, taking into account the needs of this sign language. The law does not say how to consider in the context of public television the possibility of introducing legislation that allows the translation of gestures, the placement of subtitles of various television shows, news, political programs, and especially during electoral campaigns and cultural programmes. The law does not say how to provide medical support to people with impaired hearing through videos, subtitles and gestures. The law does not say how to create conditions for communication systems to be more accessible to people with impaired hearing through new technologies. The law does not say how to support development and production, distribution of financially accessible aids, hearing aids, FM systems, tablets with special software that is special for online translators. That is why, fellow Members, we are reserved for this Law. In our view, we need a fundamentally different concept for the settlement of these relationships. Much of the texts in this Law that you have written duplicates other laws. The adoption of a separate law may not even be necessary. Changes can be made to specialized legislation such as the Law on Integration of Persons with Disabilities, the Law on Pre-school and School Education, the Law on Social Assistance and other legal frameworks to be adapted to the sign language of the deaf community. Finally, fellow Members, I would like to call on you to bring together the efforts really and these people to pay attention to them with nine members written in two pages, the problems of people with disabilities cannot be solved. It's a humiliation to these people! Let us unite, do as proposed: a public consultation, an extended forum, these people to be invited and come up with a unified position to solve their problems. Nine members don't solve problems amassed for 30 years. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. For lines, Mr. Gokov, then Mrs. Zhekova, then Mr. Hristov. From the other parliamentary groups, if there is, I'll give them a line. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u50	Madam President, first of all, let's extend the group's time. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shishkov, what you said here, don't you think?! Take the shorthand then, read what you said and think about what you actually said with that statement. I'm not setting up any relationship. The law doesn't say where financial resources are going to come from, how to settle a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a. Well, by not saying the law and calling for consensus that nine members are not enough, well, let's vote and adopt the Bill at first reading. We will set up a working group, extend the deadline as much as possible, make proposals from these nine to become 900 members, and settle the matter for these people. So we, not us, but these people, are waiting for you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] to be inflated because for the last eight years "seven years he has managed GERB." And now you're telling me that someone remembered or paid attention to these people, submitted a bill and you criticized them. Well, let's make it a better bill, what are you criticizing?! [[Heckling]] Why would we do that until then? Let's do it together, shall we?! Strange treatment of disabled people! Mincho Coralski "You were not, you are not a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, but he made a very emotional statement to the person because he is very deeply involved in the problems of people with disabilities. And he said to you, "If with these arguments that you are constantly rejecting laws, that there will be research, that we are proving one-what you are, we will get nowhere." Once it's rejected, now this is the second time you're going to reject such an idea, I don't know how long you're going to keep doing this thing! Except you're on the wrong track and people are watching what you're doing. [[Reply from GERB: "What are we doing? "]] People see who solves problems in society and who deepens them! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u51	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? Mrs. Zhekova, come in. There are no other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u52	Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, your arguments are untenable, because in this case we are talking about support for 120,000 people who are deaf. What prevents you from the Law, the texts of the Law, when we have three weeks to develop this Bill and make it perfect? Apparently, you're looking for an excuse for things with untenable arguments. In the end, I hope that reason in this House will prevail and protect the interests of these people. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. Third line, Mr. Hristov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u54	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, I cannot understand how you expect a law to settle everything?! The colleague from GERB also mentioned hearing aids. If you open the Law and read it, there is an instruction manual for people with disabilities. There it is very clearly described to who, what and how, in what channel order it is granted. You can't interfere with the Sign Language Act with the Assistance Instruction. Don't give it to yourself, God, I'm about to introduce a law for people with disabilities. Well, I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to leave by listening to what's going on here. What exactly is the problem with this Law? I mean, he's got to be sorted out somehow. Between first and second reading, this is his idea to improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] For the coat, Mr. Shishkov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we are obviously all going in the same direction, we want the same thing, but the roads are different. Why did I commit to this Law? Because I have relatives who are in a similar state, and people who have suffered more than 40 years since the lack of regulation. I agree with you that such a law is necessary. We are absolutely for this to be adopted, but there is no fundamental basis, colleagues. I'm a builder. I've been in construction my whole life. I know that a building, to be built, has to have a foundation. And there is no such basis in your Law. [[Applause from GERB.]] Our idea is to make a fundamental legislative basis on which to build everything we need to solve people's problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. Any other speeches? Dr. Ademov, come in. [[Heckling]] No, no, Dr. Ademov, because BSP had a lot of speeches. Let's alternate groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests, to your attention we present a very interesting bill. I begin by saying that our parliamentary group will support the proposed project, with a clear mind... [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Don't rush to applaud me, you'll hear my other arguments. [[Laughter and lines.]] With the clear awareness that between first and second reading, it takes both expert and extrapartisan efforts to propose a working bill. Because the way it is proposed, there are a lot of problems, there are a lot of unresolved issues, there are a lot of inaccuracies that need to be overcome. I am convinced that if there is a will the National Assembly, these differences can be overcome. The question is not whether it will be accepted. It is clear that it will have to be adopted because there is a United Nations Convention on Disabilities. The European Parliament, the Bulgarian Parliament have ratified this Convention and according to art. 21 of this, we are obliged to guarantee freedom of expression, freedom of access to information. This can only happen through the adoption of a law.... whether it will be for the sign language, whether it will be for sign language, is again a question of argument. And since I mentioned sign language and sign language, I want to end this terminological discussion. The Convention speaks about sign language, and the Bulgarian Classifier of professions and positions speaks about Bulgarian sign language. These are things that are technically and can be settled, I repeat, with expert and extra-party efforts. The National Assembly has very often had insurmountable contradictions between colleagues from GERB and BSP. In such cases, we in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms always express our willingness to help with pragmatism, to help with expertise, to help with realism. Why am I saying this? Because here we heard calls to be less emotional, to be more realistic. To this call, I would answer: to be emotionally realistic on the one hand, but, on the other hand, to remember that the expectations of people with disabilities, in this case, the expectations of people with impaired hearing, are in the direction of solving this problem once and for all, and not of delaying it. I would like to say a few words on the thesis mentioned by this tribune that there is no opinion and this bill is not considered in the National Council for the Integration of Disabled People. To all who are exercising on the topic of the National Council for the Integration of Disabilities, I would like to say what is the factology to date. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, those who are familiar with this matter, know or should know that at the beginning of each term, the new composition is formed, the new team of the National Council for the Integration of Disabled Persons, who is an advisory body to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. His decisions are not mandatory because by definition he is an advisory body. And now tell me, because I feel contempt for the Commission's leadership that we have not sent the Project to the National Council for the Integration of Disabilities: well, which structure should we send it to, and it has not yet been structured, has not been built? Twenty are representative organizations of people with disabilities who participate in this National Council. In it, in addition to representatives of people with disabilities, members of the different ministries and offices. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to date is still waiting for proposals from the relevant departments to fill the composition. Let us conclude with this topic: why has the project not been examined in the National Council for the Integration of Disabled People. Now I would like to mention several issues that will be resolved if the bill is adopted at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all is the fact that this Ex Lege Law empowers the Union of the Deaf in Bulgaria, which is the largest organization of people with impaired hearing. This structure is given ex-lege powers to maintain the National Register. That's the first problem. The second problem with this National Register is that there are no written texts in the Law to regulate, to enable those who apply for membership in this National Register, that is, there are no conditions and the terms by which the respective translators should be included in this National Register. And when these conditions, this regulation is not signed in the Law, any administrative court will cancel the refusal to enter or exit this register. So this is something very important that needs to be signed in the register. Next, the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training, under the Law on Vocational Education and Training, issued a document for acquired professional qualification. It was said here just now. The additional provisions state that there is a definition of who is the translator of sign language or sign language. And there it is said that this person, in order to enter the National Register, must have a certificate of a whole profession, certified a document of professional qualification. Yeah, but the NAPO says there aren't any for a whole profession. There are only 42, it was said here, trained for a partial knowledge of the profession. Then another question arises: in the so-called special schools, there should be assistant translators in the so-called schools. Well, there should be assistant translators, but they're not in legal peace. The assistant translators are not regulated in any way. Assistant translators must enter the classification of positions and professions in order to regulate their activities at the legislative level. And here I would like to say a few words about the sign language or sign language not being recognized as language, there is no linguistic analysis and so on. These are details that must be important from the point of view of the research approach, but we need to acknowledge the fact that this language exists in living life, albeit in different forms, and that it is recognised or not acknowledged. Only there's another question. This language must have the status of such a language already recognised at the legislative level. And the procedure must be followed. The question is when this should happen, how it should happen, what procedures should be. Therefore, honourable Members, we of the Parliamentary Group of "The Movement for Rights and Freedoms" will support this Bill, and if it comes between first and second readings, we will help with the possibilities of this expertise to be adopted so that it can work and not in the form in which it is submitted. [[Applause from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u59	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? Here you are.. the People's Representative Milen Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u60	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Ademov, we have often been in different positions with you, and now I will have to express my disagreement with your thesis that you will support the Law because of these two sentences in which you said: You have made so many expert arguments about the weaknesses of the Law, about the shortcomings of its members, that you have simply confirmed our belief that we should abstain from this support. I agree with you that the issue is extremely important, that we should approach it not politically, but expertly. And I appeal to all my colleagues, specifically to your committee, to adopt an initiative to develop an expert draft law. Otherwise, you have indeed given us very serious arguments to abstain from this support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Second line. "The People's Representative Snezana Dukova. [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ademov, we have been working together for a long time and I have always been impressed by your professional and balanced speeches. However, what you said about the lack of pragmatism, the expertise, I find your statement nonsense. My colleague Mihov is right when he said that there are very serious arguments. Our agreement that there should be a sign attitude towards this group if I can call it that without it being social, but it has its parameters and dimensions in our space, which is not political. Why did I get up? Not because I have to repeat the arguments that my colleague said and say that it really is nonsense, but because of the fact that the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP for Bulgaria) has been constantly publishing its submitted bills. And if they all carry this quality, this expertise, this procedural inadequacy...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u63	I request a reply to the MP Dr. Hasan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u64	Do you think about what we're talking about? We move on to the adoption of some laws just because they are introduced into the National Assembly and because they say they exist. You cannot pass a law, as the fellow Member said, when he has no basis for this, which needs to be completely changed, all the more so when we talk that there is no regulatory discrepancy. You're a parliamentarians with a long internship. Don't let that happen. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. Is there a third line? No. Here you go, Dr. Ademov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, colleagues, for the lines. I continue to argue that this Law, even as it is imported, can be corrected. We are a parliamentary group with our own style, we are people who know how and when to support and when not to support bills. And in this sense, I want to tell you that this Law is from the group of bills that can be corrected. If they can't be corrected, make sure we never support it. In this sense, I would like to say and repeat this Law, whether it will be adopted today, whether it will be adopted in a few months, in a few years, it will be adopted. The question is not......................................................................................... I have witnessed many delays in many bills. Postponement of the adoption of a bill is not part of his decision. Postponement of a bill is part of creating new and additional problems.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u67	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. For a statement there is the national representative Milko Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! A large part of the arguments for.... and against....................................... have been said. I thank Mr. Ademov he said part of my speech, especially for the National Council as an advisory body to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I just want to clarify three things in this discussion. The first is that the problems that regulate this bill are not linguistic. I ask here that all arguments, which were that there was no established language to be discussed, be dismissed. I think this is a bill that regulates social relations, especially integration relationships.. in education, in social and in the field of work, and here can be another step in the preparation of this Law between first and second readings. One such moment, which was highlighted in the discussion and which irritates you say that there is no legal sign language. I'm asking: who should legitimize it? Who should make the law by which this language should be legalized? This can only be Parliament. And here I am surprised, as a parliamentary first term, why does Parliament have a double standard? Why does he use this concept when it comes to the understanding of voters in the Election Code and the introduction of a sign translation of speeches and messages during the elections, and now he is afraid to make the step to legitimise this language as one of the means of communicating with people with disabilities? I would also like to address the representatives of both the Union of the Deaf and the Association of People with Deaf Hearing. Regardless of what opinions you have, they can be discussed between first and second readings, the bill can be enriched. The bad thing is, if he's rejected now, the problem will get deeper and he'll stay back in time. There's a gesture to it. He's evolving. We are only looking at how for political reasons to reject one or another bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u69	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? The people's representative Galya Zaharieva has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, many things have really been said, many arguments and..................................................................................................... This is extremely important. I am pleased that it was done right here in this House, because it is important in the Commission to hear the opinions of the various organisations and institutions that are relevant, but it is a very important sign that we, as MPs, give the good message to the public, to the Bulgarian citizens about how a debate on a certain legislative initiative should be conducted. It is very important to put the problem of this group of people to people with impaired hearing. It is important not only because we have ratified the Convention, it is important not because we have commitments as a state, but it is important for a simple reason that these people are part of us, beside us, among us and they need the general support of statehood and everything that is happening around them. The other important thing that has become clear from this debate is that we are not talking about a political debate here. The focus in all the speeches was in terms of expertise, in terms of seriousness, the responsibility on the basis of which this legislative initiative offers to colleagues. It is very important to state that we must make it so that we have consistency in our decisions and in our policy towards people with disabilities. In addition to the ratification of the Convention, there is an adopted Action Plan and the implementation of this Convention in the State. In this plan there are enough institutions, responsibilities, deadlines and time for them to be realized. That is to say, this is not the first step in this direction, and it must be a subsequent step to implement, to summarize the experience gained and to continue the development of the regulations in this direction. The question is not before us today whether we should support a bill at first reading. The issue before us is to support texts, a bill, an idea that will lead to real solutions to the problems of a group of people, of a community. Unfortunately, however, in most of the speeches, and most importantly in most of the opinions that have been submitted to both the Social Committee and the Committee on Education and Science, we see that they are heavy. rather the discrepancies, concerns, disagreements with a serious part of the texts, however little they may be, of the proposed bill. Nine opinions have been submitted. There were eight until that day and yesterday there was a ninth opinion on this bill. Of these nine opinions, honourable Members, only three, i.e. one third of the opinions of the organisations concerned on the subject, have positive and positive support for the texts. This means to me and to my colleagues that there is a serious gap between the attitudes in the community, what are the attitudes among the people and organizations that deal with this topic and work on a daily basis, with the texts that are offered to us. So we have a good reason to really hold back, because something on the base isn't right. I will not dwell specifically on the texts of the Bill, because this is not the subject of the first reading of the Law. I will focus on several of the issues that we have commented on and have been mentioned. I will not go into details, even though I can do so in terms of the concept of gesture and gesture. Many things were said and were in 90% true. The truth is that the term is more appropriate and we have to comply with all that it has. Gestures are a very serious topic. This is actually one of the things that wakes up not accepting the texts you are proposing and on the entire legal base that you want to settle. It has been said several times, and I very much thank Mr. Ademov because his speech was very expert and professional. I will not repeat this, but it is a fact that there are only 42 people trained in this profession in the last four years, that is, we do not have a single person who has a specialty, professional, trained and can support it with all the necessary documents that this requires. It is debatable how large the number of these translators is. It's controversial both as statistics and as quality of work that they're going to submit. And in this dispute about the quality of these people's work, we already have a lack of a guarantee that is one of your main objectives set out in your Bill that we will give the really good service to the people who need it. Very important, I would like to stress, is that when preparing this Law for us it is not certain whether the opinion of languagemakers and educators who are currently engaged in the sign language and the communication of deaf people is sought. Currently there is a lack of in-depth scientific research, as well as of linguistic and sociolinguistic description, numerous territorial versions of this language, the introduction of new gestures and the processes of language development. There is no methodology for training sign translators. There are no specialized methods and methodologies for teaching courses in special schools using gesture language. To a large extent, there are no methods for teaching gestures as a stand-alone subject. It is very important and we must help people, make it possible for them, but this cannot become chaotic, we must have rules, there must be methodologies for this training to be conducted. A few more sentences regarding translators. In several places in the texts you've proposed, you're talking about a translator, you're talking about a translator, you're talking about an assistant translator. Are we going to interpret the language or are we going to teach the people, rather the children who need it the most to start and be active? How do we teach them? With a methodology that explains how to do this with experts, or do we interpret the concepts? Will this lead to unity in preparing the staff, will it lead to a guarantee that all those who need this support and this training will be equally prepared and they will be able to serve each other equally with this language?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u71	Is there going to be an interpreter for the different interpretations?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u72	Yes, perhaps we should make translators between the various speakers and the different dialects of this language. Something very important about education. You are texting in one of the provisions: In special schools under para. 1, t. 1 for children and students with impaired hearing as an aid in the training is introduced bilingual training at the same time as speech and gesture. This description is, to put it mildly, problematic. Because what is the bilingual training of importers? Training at the same time with speech and gesture. This is a specific method, which should gather the two languages of the Bulgarian language and the Bulgarian sign language. It is very important that we make sure that people who need this language find their alternative to use. Let's find that the application of the methodologies and of the arrangements at the Bulgarian school, where children need to use it, be absolutely by professionals, by experts in this field and give parents and children the opportunity to really be calm, that their children will receive such education, which will help them and guarantee them integration into the Bulgarian society and the use of all the services that we want absolutely everyone in this room to give them the ability to normally use and do what we do, despite their problem, which they have physically. Our colleagues in the parliamentary group said we would abstain. Yeah, we'll hold off. We will abstain because it is not important for us to make an imitation of legislative initiative. We do not want to support this Law simply because certain conventions, rules and protocols require it. I would challenge my fellow importers. Yes, you've started a good initiative. Even if we do not support the Bill at first reading today, continue in this direction, make the necessary workshops, working groups, but invite them not only one side. Invite all those people who have an interest, have an attitude, care and commitment to this topic. Then I am sure and I guarantee that all of us together will make really the best texts and we will achieve this effect that we all want people with hearing problems to be normally integrated, to feel a real part of this society and to be really useful to them. The other, honourable Members, is an imitation, and imitation is not allowed to us, especially with regard to the problems of people with disabilities. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u73	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Here you go, Mr. Gokov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm sorry I get up all the time to replicate. It's a good thing you said this wasn't a political debate. I'm up to replicate because I've been working on this Law for a very long time a year, a year and something. We have experienced all these things that you say, and we have decided that this is a good form of Bill and we have brought it into the National Assembly. You decide it's different from what I say. You're saying it's not the political debate. There has indeed been a non-political debate, but there must be political will for the legal recognition of this language, because at least it is shameful that Bulgaria is one of the two countries in Europe, where this language is not recognised at both legal and constitutional level. This is unacceptable in the 21st century. Your point of view is that the opinions were almost negative. My reading of opinions is not like that. The opinions are extremely positive and even a large part of them, especially NGOs, are in the direction of proposals between the first and second votes. They agree that this Law must be adopted and changed between first and second votes. A gesture or sign language is accepted in European practice to be called a vicious language. In Bulgaria, however, all regulations mention sign language, so we, as importers, referred to it. There's no problem in changing it to a vicious language or whatever else we want it to be. Forty-two persons in recent years have a controversial quality of training. I'm sorry, but until this language becomes legal, there will be no interest in it for training in this profession. I didn't think it was a legislative initiative, I told you how long we worked. I will only remind you of an imitation of a legislative initiative. The Law on Equality between Women and Men, which you were fiercely defending, and it is the biggest imitation this year, and for the next 10 years no one will invoke this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Gokov, I really thought that we would be able to keep the good tone and not involve the political debate again. It's not a political issue. With regard to the opinions you mentioned, you disprove and believe that I look at it differently. Yeah, I'll also say that you're looking at it differently. It is not the question that you and I are looking at, but what people who have a daily attitude on this topic and work have written. These are all institutions, associations, agencies, NGOs that are working on this topic and have given their opinions. Three of these organisations in their opinions express strong support. The other six are not supporting your Bill for the simple reason that it does not stand up at expert and professional level. None of these opinions commented policies, did not comment BSP, did not comment GERB. We need to find the right path to these people here, and the right path is through a broad public discussion not only with one of these organizations. The right way is through a discussion at more levels so that all the details can be really taken and then we can go out to the public with a decent bill, which, again, I say, will not be an imitation of activity and haste to support other conventions, but will be a bill that will meet the expectations of the people who need it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u77	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u78	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The need to create a Law on the Bulgarian sign language is undeniable. This Law needs between 120 and 150 thousand Bulgarian citizens who are speechless in order to increase their opportunity for communication. One such Law should enable them to receive adequate, full education in schools, which will help their more fully-fledged lives and their realization. Arguing that such a need for such a Law does not exist. However, reading our proposed Bill, despite allegations that it was a legal year and a half, I was under the impression that it was written very quickly, as the "Knee" is called, is not complete, schematic and incomplete and will not solve the problems of the citizens with impaired hearing, but will deepen them. As much as, colleagues on the left, try to downplay the topic that there are several sign languages in Bulgaria, this is a fact. This is also given in the opinions of the organizations that have been cited here. People living in different regions cannot communicate with each other because of these differences. We want to create a single national sign language. But who should it be: the one practiced in Varna or the one practiced in Blagoevgrad? There can be no act of legitimizing a single national sign language. There must be such a sign language in order to introduce the mandatory gesture-language subject, as well as to practice in kindergartens and schools with special training. Without such a sign language, it cannot be realized for the whole country. In view of the bill in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, and here in the Chamber, there were opinions that different dialects were spoken in different regions of the country. Yeah, that's a fact. This is true, but in all Bulgarian schools in Bulgaria is studied and taught in the official Bulgarian language and not in the dialect. That's the way it should be with the sign language. There must be an official Bulgarian sign language. Until it is created and officially recognised, it is also very difficult to teach, practice and evaluate translators from and in sign language. The lack of such a criterion would only lead to chaos. I want to focus on one more thing. 6, para. 1 states that a register of translators from and in sign language is created. So far it is good, but notice that it is composed and maintained by the Union of the Deaf in Bulgaria. With one single provision, the Law creates this register and transfers all responsibility for its creation and introduction to the Union of the Deaf in Bulgaria. Nowhere in the Bill does not mention what are the criteria for entering or writing off the translator from and in sign language in this register. The rules for registration and write-off in this register should be laid down in the Law and not be defined by the Union of the Deaf in Bulgaria and by the National Association of Gesture Translators, because this, colleagues, will lead to many problems afterwards. There is no clear procedure to evaluate translators from and in sign language, and this can lead to problems with unscrupulous persons or with insufficient knowledge and skills. I will not dwell on the issue of preparing qualified translators from and in sign language. It has been quoted several times that there is not a single translator in the whole profession. There are 42 who are in the partial profession, but in the whole profession there is none, and this fact will also lead to many problems. The National Agency for Vocational Education and Training is asking several more quite important questions that do not find an answer in this Bill. I will quote only a few of them: what place in the register will those with higher education who have acquired qualifications in the particular professional field occupy? How will it be handled with all individuals who have completed informal gesture language training so far? Is the register intended to include persons who care for their relatives with impaired hearing and already speak sign language? To these and many other questions, the bill gives no answer. That is why, at the very beginning, I said that this Bill is incomplete, schematic, incomplete and will not solve the problems, but will deepen them. The law on Bulgarian sign language, colleagues, is very important and therefore we should not look at it superficially, but we should go into the details and make a working law because this one will not be working. He must go through a discussion through the maximum number of deaf organizations in the country, analyze their opinions and recommendations and be adequately included in the Law. Our goal is not only to have such a Law, but to have it work. Obviously, the bill presented to us will not be a working law because of the many weaknesses. Speed isn't always a good ally. I call on you to take a little more time and create a sign language law that meets all the needs of people with impaired hearing and is worthy of them, but not to rush and vote on any nonsense. You many times, colleagues on the left, have accused us that we do not work. That's not true, and you know it very well. We can work slower, but we create working laws! [[Noise and lines.]] You work faster or create an illusion that you work and create non-working laws. Such laws of our citizens, the citizens of Bulgaria, are not necessary. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u79	Thank you, Mr. Papasimov. Are there any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Sometimes it's hard for me to stay where I am and not go out. At the moment it is not most extremely necessary to express my opinion, but still. I heard an accusation from here that the group on one side creates and generates non-working laws, incomplete, imperfect, while the group on the other side creates the perfect laws that... [[Noise and lines.]] Nothing that works slowly, but just to analyze what laws so far trying to bring the group on one side, the one that creates slow-working, perfect laws. Although...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u81	What's your line to Mr. Papasimov? [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u82	The line is that really what I notice is that this group generates more lobbying laws so far, albeit slowly! [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.............................................................................................]] ... Which I cannot admit to working, all the more so, that at the last committee, at the last Temporary Commission, please don't interrupt me, on transport, where we considered whether or not to enter...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u83	There is no link to the Transport Commission!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u84	Whether to enter the Law on concessions was recognized by the group itself that the Law was not perfect, but nevertheless they decided to enter it. [[Noise, lines and calls.]] Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u85	Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Papashimov, come in for your coat. [[Heckling]] Hole before the procedure in the manner of conduct, Mrs. Dukova!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I believe that the line so made seconds ago has nothing to do with discussing this Law, so I have nothing to duplicate. Thank you. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u87	It's got something to do with speed. [[Radio.]] Although the charges were more about my speed before that. [[Radio and lines.]] Here you are, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Chairman, we've been working for six weeks. I can't imagine you going out on the stand and not knowing the Rules for such a long time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u89	Is this about me? [[Radio and laughter in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because it's the way it is. [[Laughter, lines and applause at BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u90	Mr. Chairman, allowing people who lead indulgences from lack of knowledge is unacceptable from this tribune. Colleague from Volja, if you had at least read the Law,...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u91	Please take care of it. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u92	...so you can draw some conclusions and statements. Mr. Chairman, please don't let anyone sit here just to pose. Thank you. [[Laughter and applause in the Bulgarian BSP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the Bulgarian Sign Language Bill No 754-01-6, submitted by the National Representative Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs on 17 May 2017. Dear colleagues, please vote. They voted 207 MPs: 101, against 2, abstention 104. The bill hasn't been passed. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm asking for order in this room to stop the movement so I can find out who wants what. Here you go, Mr. Gokov. Someone hasn't been able to vote. No arguments on the ground so I don't take your word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u94	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, I will not use arguments essentially under the Law, although it is important that I do so, but at least two people could not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u95	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. It's a re-vote. They voted 213 MPs: for 102, against 1, abstention 110. The bill hasn't been passed. Moving on to the next point: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACTUALISED NATIONAL RESEARCH STRATEGY IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA 2017- 2030 Report from the Committee on Education and Science. You have the floor, Mrs. Damyanova, President of the Committee on Education and Science. There is no report from the Commission on European Affairs and the control of European funds. There is no report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision adopting an updated National Research Development Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria 2017- 2030, No 702-00-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2017. At its regular meeting on 31 May 2017, the Education and Science Committee discussed the above-mentioned draft decision. The meeting was attended by Krasimir Valchev. Minister for Education and Science, Prof. Mr. Ivan Dimov. Deputy Minister, Academician Julian Revalski, Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Member of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Prof. Konstantin Hadjievanov. Lyuben Totev, Chairman of the Council of Rectors, Assoc. Gregory Vazov, Secretary of the Council of Rectors, prof. Georgi Mihov "Rector of Technical University" Sofia, Prof. Georgi Mihov Statty Stattev Rector of the University of National and World Economy, prof. Prof. Zapriyan Kozludzhov, Rector of Plovdiv University of Plovdiv, Prof. Paisii Hilendarski Stanislav Semerdzhiev "Rector of the National Academy of Theatre and Film Arts, and other representatives of the academic community and of trade union organizations in the field of higher education and science. The draft updated National Research Development Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria 2017 " 2030" was presented by Minister Krasimir Valchev. It shall inform the Members of the National Assembly that the State has an obligation under the Partnership Agreement to adopt the National Research Promotion Strategy, which should be reported to the European Commission by 30 June. He noted that the Project of Strategy was developed by a working group with the participation of the management of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, of scientists from Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski, of the Science and Education and Science Fund. The main objective of the Strategy is to make Bulgaria an attractive centre for advanced research and development of new technologies, to restore and raise international authority in science, to retain and attract talented scientists in Bulgaria and to achieve long-term economic growth and a significant increase in quality of life. The strategy aims to support science in Bulgaria to make it a factor for the development of an economy based on knowledge and innovation activities, with the target group targeted by universities and scientific organizations in Bulgaria. The strategy contains a clear commitment to an increase in state budget funds. It provides for three stages of implementation of the objectives set: - recovery stage (2017 " 2022') the implementation of the basic mechanisms and activities ensuring the restoration and modernisation of the research system; - stage of accelerated development (2023 - 2025) successful development of research, allowing for closeness to the European average level; - World-class research stage (2027 " 2030") The third stage will ensure a sustainable and balanced development of research and raising it to a global level based on the successful implementation of the two previous stages. The strategy provides for the opening of the Science Executive Agency at the Ministry of Education and Science, which will manage and support research in scientific organizations and universities in Bulgaria. It will also monitor research activities. The Agency's structure will include a Fund of Research. The aim is to continue the project financing of scientific developments. At the same time, the Agency's activities will be extended to the establishment of various programmes for funding career development of scientists, applied research, research development of scientific centres, international cooperation, and to the development of specialised and sectoral research programmes. The basic remuneration is intended to be fixed for individual scientific posts, PhD students and post-doctoral students and to be covered by the state subsidy of the scientific organisation or university. The amount of wages will be determined compared to the average salary in the country for the previous year. There will also be additional incentives linked to concrete scientific results. For young scientists without scientific results there will be a different mechanism for additional remuneration and their career development will be linked to the results of their scientific work. The updated Strategy also suggests that science and innovation complexes should be created throughout the country, and business partners are also attracted to it. Active participation in the development of the complexes should have municipal and regional managements and leading partners from abroad. These structures will be financed through different sources, including the EU Structural Funds. The financing of the Strategy will be financed from the state budget for the relevant year, with funds from European funds and other sources, agreed with the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 and the Framework for State aid for research, experimental development and innovation. Minister Valchev proposed that after the words "consolidated fiscal programme" should be added to the budget with the exception of expenditure with the source of the European Structural and Investment Funds and that the European Commission's requirements for a clear commitment of the state should be met as much as possible. The draft Strategy has been published for public discussion and comments received have been taken into account. Deputy Minister Ivan Dimov added that the Strategy places an extremely important emphasis on the quality of scientific activity in measurable parameters. He clarified that the analysis carried out in the Strategy was based on two very serious audit reports. One is the report as a result of the peer review by the European Commission. The second is the Audit Report on Bulgaria's participation in Horizon 2020 programme, where a number of critical conclusions have also been drawn. Written opinions on the draft of the updated National Strategy for Research Development in the Republic of Bulgaria 2017 St. Kliment Ohridski, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Union of Scientists in Bulgaria, National Branch Syndicate During the discussion the Council of Rectors of Higher Schools in the Republic of Bulgaria presented an oral opinion. Support for the updated National Research Development Strategy is expressed in the opinions presented and notes and suggestions for its improvement are made. The main remark was related to the envisaged "financing under the consolidated fiscal programme', which could lead to a reduction of the funds needed as a percentage of GDP compared to the option "direct funding from the state budget'. It is proposed that the envisaged two-component system for introducing differentiated pay to scientists be linked to the amount of the average wage for the country, as well as to increasing project funding distributed by the Disagree with the submitted Draft Strategy in written opinion express the Federation of Independent Trade Unions of Agriculture.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The discussion included MPs Anelia Klisarova, Ivo Hristov, Stanislav Stanilov, Stoyan Mirchev, Milen Mihov, Irena Anastasova, Nikolay Tsonkov, Milena Damyanova and Snezhana Dukova. People's representative Anelia Klisarova noted that in the version of the Strategy, which was the subject of public discussion, the expression of the state budget is used in the sources of funding and in the version submitted to the National Assembly it was replaced by the statement of the general budget. According to her, all the texts, where the Ministry of Finance has a commitment to ensure full implementation of the Strategy, remained desirable. People's representative Ivo Hristov expressed the opinion that the reasons for the failure of the previous Strategy are the lack of control and the ratio between the money science receives from the state budget and the so-called project funding. He also noted that there was no interest in major economic entities in the development of science-intensive investments. National Representative Stanislav Stanilov explained that in Bulgaria, usually the strategies adopted after 1990 are not realized because often the Ministry of Finance does not provide the funds. According to him, researchers' basic salaries need to be doubled in order to attract quality PhD students. As a positive element of the Strategy, he pointed out that it envisions the National Commission for Appelation. According to the MP Stoyan Mirchev until the state stands behind the science and starts investing in it, and the EU funds to be used only as an addition to state funding will be spoken of only a decline in the development of Bulgarian science. People's representative Milen Mihov asked the Minister whether he found rational proposals in the written and oral opinions presented, which could find a place in both the expected Strategy Implementation Plan and the Ministry's activities. The MPs Irena Anastasova and Nikolay Tsonkov noted that a clear financial commitment of the state for Bulgarian science and Bulgarian education should be sought. National Representative Milena Damyanova drew attention to the text regulating the control of the implementation of the Strategy, which provides for it to be carried out by the National Assembly and the International Control Council. For the first time in the Strategy, such control functions of the Parliamentary Commission are defined. National Representative Snezana Dukova stressed that it is extremely important to have good management capacity and good monitoring and control mechanism. Representatives of the academic circles were actively involved in the discussion. The President of the Council of Rectors Lyuben Totev expressed support for the Strategy with a proposal for adjustments of the financial framework. The Rector of Plovdiv University of Paisii Hilendarski (Professor Zapreyan Kozludzov) expressed his opinion that the Strategy should be adopted in the shortest possible time. The Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences Julian Revalski noted that the adoption of the Strategy is very important to return Bulgaria's positions to a country where there is solid science at global level. He reminded that the operational programs are not that panacea that will save Bulgarian science, and the state must commit through its budget. He stressed that money should be given against certain results, so within the Strategy are the international assessment of scientific organisations, the periodic attestation of both institutions and researchers themselves, there is a differentiated payment at stake, which is also an element of control of how funds will be spent. The Rector of UNWE Professor Statty Stattev noted that the adoption of the Strategy predetermines and subsequent change of the legal framework. The Supreme Education and Science at the CST noted that they expect in the future implementation of the Strategy measures to have a very serious concentration of science in higher schools, because this is important for the whole system and for the quality of education. After the discussion, Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev answered the questions asked and again pointed out that in order to define the parameter of the country's commitment, he proposed an addition of two texts from the updated National Strategy for Research Development in the Republic of Bulgaria 2017 - 2030. 33 and on page 26 of the Official 62, by adding, after the words, the European Structural and Investment Funds, with the exception of expenditure with the source of the European Structural and Investment Funds. The Members of the National Assembly unanimously supported the Commission's proposal to make additions to Section 4.1, Horizontal Activity 1, on page 1. 33 and Section 5.2, Table 6, in the indicator R & D funding under the consolidated fiscal programme as a percentage of GDP, p. 62 of the Strategy under consideration. The discussion also found that it was necessary to refine the draft decision on the adoption of the Strategy and to supplement the legal grounds for its adoption with the words "Art." 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Minister of Education and Science agreed with the legal and technical editorials made in the Draft Decision. The MPs agreed on the opinion that legal and technical clarification of the text of the draft decision is required and unanimously supported this proposal. Following the discussion, following the proposals for addition to the draft decision of the National Assembly for adoption of the Strategy under consideration and for the addition of two texts of the Strategy, as well as after a vote with a result of 17 votes....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I will now read the Decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting an updated National Strategy for the Development of Research in the Republic of Bulgaria 2017 - 2030 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 laying down common provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). HAS DECIDED Adopts an updated National Research Development Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria 2017 - 2030 (taken)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u97	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Half an hour off. At 12:00, we move on. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u98	Colleagues, please take your seats. We continue on a second point with a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u99	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe under the draft Decision adopting an updated National Research Development Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria 2017 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2017. At a meeting held on 31 May 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Decision on the adoption of an updated National Research Development Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria 2017 - 2030, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Education Prof. Ivan Dimov, who presented the project and pointed out that the main goal of the Strategy is to make Bulgaria an attractive center for advanced research and development of new technologies, to attract and retain talented scientists in Bulgaria and as a final result to achieve long-term economic growth and significantly improve the quality of life. Certain policies, measures and tools for their implementation are defined. Three stages of implementation of the Strategy are envisaged. The first stage is a recovery phase from 2017 to 2022. The second stage is an accelerated development 2023. The third stage is to reach a global level by 2030 based on the successful implementation of the previous two stages. The introduction of criteria for the attestation of relevant scientists is envisaged, which will lead to additional incentives, including financial incentives, for attracting young scientists and for the return of scientists to Bulgaria. The strategy envisions the creation of scientific and innovation complexes by attracting business partners, including four national centres of excellence and eight innovation centers related to regional business. The funding will be financed from the state budget for the year in question, with funds from the European funds and other sources, with the main funds from the Research Fund. During the discussion of the project a discussion was held and a number of questions were raised, to which Prof. Dimov gave comprehensive answers. People's representatives from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) said they would not support the draft decision and made the following comments: People's representative Svetla Bachvarova said there is a serious retreat in the financial part of the current Strategy and the version of the previous year, as in the previous Strategy there is funding for 2020 at a rate of 0,7 per cent of gross domestic product and in this percentage is 0.5 per cent. She said the funds under the Fund are insufficient. People's representative Rumen Gechev also expressed his opinion that the funds for funding of science in the amount of 0.5 percent of gross domestic product are insufficient, which would deepen the difference with other European countries where this percentage is higher. The Strategy should include national priorities, as well as issues concerning the remuneration and preservation of researchers in Bulgaria. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision adopting an updated National Research Development Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u100	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yordanova. I give you the floor for the opinion of Mr. Minister, please. The Minister of Education and Science Mr. Valchev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The project was largely presented with details by Mrs. Damyanova. Research is a national priority and has strategic importance for the development of the country. The development, based on science and technology, is a common European objective. The transformation of research into a factor for the development of the economy, based on knowledge and innovation activities, is extremely important and presents a long-term strategic vision for strengthening research. To this end, and in accordance with the Research Promotion Act, the National Research Development Strategy has also been developed, which sets out the objectives and measures by the State for research development in the period 2017 - 2030. The renewal of the National Research Development Strategy is a mandatory precondition under the Partnership Agreement with the European Union. The national strategy also reflects the government's policy as part of its responsibilities in terms of the country's strategic development and the desire to achieve synergies with the objectives and results of other strategic documents, such as the Innovation Strategy for Smart Specialization and a number of national European documents. The analysis of the state of research presented in the Strategy shall review the national research system in recent years. The analysis of the costs of research and development can draw conclusions indicating major problems and weaknesses in the scientific system. The national system is underfunded, mainly because of a lack of structural reforms and low efficiency. The research system is highly fragmented and does not allow large-scale and programme research to help the state and the economy. Among the problems and weaknesses of the system should be taken into account the demographic collapse and the massive leakage of people from the country, which has a strong negative impact on existing human resources in science, in particular on scientific potential. The restructuring of industry and the closure of major industrial complexes is also a prerequisite for reducing industrial investment in science. The many problems and weaknesses in the sector from the analysis of the state can also bring out the strengths in the field of research in Bulgaria, which are mainly related to human resources. In the country there are separate strong centers and scientific groups both in scientific organizations and in higher schools. Bulgarian scientists are among the leading in a number of traditional strong areas. This potential must be maintained and served as a basis for the development of research in the country. This is why the Strategy has an ambitious goal through large-scale rapid and long-term development and modernization of the research system Bulgaria to become an attractive centre for advanced research and development of new technologies in order to raise the country's positions in science, to increase public confidence in science and to retain and attract young and leading scientists in Bulgaria. It is envisaged that the main objective of the Strategy is to be achieved by applying a complex of interrelated and complementary policies affecting one or more components of research. On the basis of this objective, certain policies are defined as well as specific measures and instruments for their implementation. The current strategy provides for a gradual increase in direct funding for research and development by years, with public funding expected to reach 1% of gross domestic product by 2025. As both public and private investments are interconnected, the planned increase in public funding is expected to have a accelerating effect on private financing, thereby achieving a value of 1,5% of gross domestic product in 2020 and 2% of gross domestic product in 2025. Another type of activities that the State can use to implement the objectives set are the amendments to the existing and the adoption of new laws and other regulations. The strategy provides for synchronised regulatory changes that will legally settle the organisation, financing and development of science in the country, as well as to ensure reform of the management and administrative bodies related to research. The success of the Strategy is linked to ensuring a sufficient number of motivated and highly qualified researchers. The balanced distribution of scientific potential is also important both by age and gender, as well as by scientific fields and geographical areas, including by attracting Bulgarian scientists working abroad. A critical point in ensuring the reproduction of scientific staff is the attraction of talented and young people in the scientific career. Specific objectives relating to human potential development policy are subject to the provision of high qualifications to scientists and the creation of working conditions competing with other countries in the European Union, including by increasing the social status of scientists. The strategy's vision is for Bulgaria to have a modern and sustainable research infrastructure to conduct high-quality research and training. Modern infrastructure also contributes to the retention of highly qualified personnel in the country and attracting young scientists and stimulates international scientific cooperation. The current Strategy provides for a targeted state policy for the development of fundamental research and the promotion of excellence. The qualitative and quantitative results of fundamental research will be used as criteria for evaluating scientific organisations and higher schools, as well as their units and as an indicator for the implementation of this Strategy. The main ways to support fundamental research are national and design funding on a competition principle, as well as various specialization and qualification enhancement measures. In the policy for stimulating applied research, it is envisaged that in the field of applied research the directions defined as priority in the strategy for intelligent specialization should be the focus. The thematic commitment of the two strategies will contribute to achieving a stronger synergistic effect in promoting applied research in Bulgaria, synchronizing the measures provided for in them. The main part of applied research will be related to specific needs of the business and the state will assist them by co-financing on a competition principle. Other applied studies, which will be supported by the state, are related to the performance of specific tasks of state institutions, tasks of national interest or related to international commitments of the country. In conclusion, it is important to clarify that the update of the national strategy is not just a condition for the success of the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." The strategy aims to create good conditions for research in Bulgaria and to make science a factor for developing the economy based on knowledge, innovation activities and improving the quality of life of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u102	Thank you, dear Minister. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Professor. Klisarova, for your first statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u103	Dear Madam President, Mr. Valchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! As has been said, the National Strategy for the Development of Research in the Republic of Bulgaria is extremely important. It's important for two reasons. In fact, I say that the smaller one is a mandatory precondition for the adoption of the Operational Program "Science and education for smart growth." It is more important and more significant because Bulgaria should not remain in scientific research, in the motivation of young scientists we should not put science in the corner. Science and education to have quality education must also develop science as well as vice versa. That's why I'm saying this strategy is extremely important. The objectives and measures in the Strategy, as presented to us, are balanced that they will motivate, as it is written, young scientists, and scientists with great experience, to develop their scientific achievements. No less important are those centers that will be created, again it was said, under the Operational Program "Science and education for smart growth." But what do I mean? We had one research development strategy by 2020. As highlighted by the Commission, I see Prof. Stanilov, yes, unfortunately this Strategy has not been implemented. There are only good words and wishes left. Why? Because it wasn't funded. If we have no guarantee that this Strategy will be funded, if there is no such guarantee, then there is no way all the good things written in the Strategy can happen. In this regard, I would like to emphasise one... for 2015 of the gross domestic product we have had only 0.27%, and we have recorded in the Strategy that for 2018 we will achieve 0.5%. This is by 2020. You can see the budget forecast for 2018. "3.08 per cent of gross domestic product." Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we must insist, we must all be united in that at least 1% of gross domestic product, as has been emphasised, but in reality, to give as funds for science, is for young scientists to co-finance projects, and not to say that we include operational programmes that carry an additional 300 million. lv. I would like to thank my colleagues from the Commission, the Finance Minister because he listened to our proposals. So we did that we accepted instead of on the consolidated fiscal programme to make a comma with the exception of structural and investment funds. This means that the state budget must commit and devote money to science. This will be an extremely important and key factor as well as for the operational programme, because we must clearly emphasise that the state is committed to the problems of young scientists and scientists and universities and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Agricultural Academy. That's why I want to say two things. Let's make sure that during the doctorate every young doctor working on his topics has a targeted, targeted subsidy for this. Let universities have in full their subsidy for research so that they can motivate students to participate in research. If there are students in research, they will be able to participate in the next programmes and research. We'll attract more young scientists. I would therefore like to say yes, we will support the Strategy, but we will closely monitor its financial parameters as soon as the 2018 budget is set. Mr. Valchev, you're a financier. You will strictly ensure that what is recorded is fulfilled. The commitment of the state to show itself only in this way Bulgarian scientists and young people will believe that we care about research.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u104	Thank you, dear Professor. Klisarova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u105	Madam President, honourable Members! The line is not essentially, but it is related to many other speeches. I'd like to ask you a fact that not all of them have graduated from mathematics, but still consider the numbers. A similar remark was made by the finance minister of the Advisory Council for National Security with the President. Mrs. Klisarova said: "Let's give 1% "if we're going to give 10% if the gross product falls a hundred times, that 10% will be less than it is now. So let's focus not on a percentage that could be much less than what people are taking right now, but on numbers that are needed for science, education, health care, for the military industry and so on. There's a certain number that's necessary. In gross domestic product is something that can rise and may fall. Mr. Goranov said: "The gross product of Greece has dropped and their percentage of gross domestic product, such as arms costs, has become 3%. People are not satisfied with the percentage, but are satisfied with the number they need to be able to carry out their activities... just to be as accurate as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Are there any more lines from the hall? I won't. Here you go, Professor. Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mareshki, I understand your note about this, there really should be enough money for science. When we fight for 1%, I just want to say two more digits. In Germany, Italy is 2.5% of gross domestic product for science, or the state invests in it, and in countries like China and South Korea it reaches 4.5%. God willing, in the next strategy, let's get to those percentages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u108	Thank you, dear Professor. Klisarova. Here you go, mate. I'm sorry, but let's just give the floor to Professor. Stanilov, because he is from another parliamentary group, and we will continue. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u109	I will not make an extensive statement because in connection with the report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences I had the opportunity to talk longer about the state of research work in Bulgaria. Every strategy is one intention. Twice I was quoted as saying in the Commission that strategies in Bulgaria are not being implemented, which is also true. The colleague Anelia Klisarova addressed the minister and said that everything should be strictly controlled in relation to the funds for research.............................................................................................. The control in principle, constitutionally in Bulgaria, belongs to the National Assembly. If we concentrate on whether the government, the government, the executive, will implement this Strategy, every year its implementation must be taken into account, every year the National Assembly must adopt this Report. Every year we have to pay attention to these particular things, to these problems, because otherwise the strategy will not be implemented again. Strategies are hard to implement. Mr. Minister replicated me in the Commission that one of the strategies was being implemented, but a strategy was generally not implemented. I've recently checked on these are several dozen of these strategies, even their exact number cannot be said. What is the main thing in the strategy? The main intention is that we can keep in Bulgaria some of these candidates for scientific diaspora, we can bring back some of them, and most importantly we will have to try to bring back the talented children who go to other research institutions that work in foreign institutions. Some of them come back to us. They can come back, but things have to definitely, sharply change with pay. We'll start discussing the Academic Board Act in the coming months. There perhaps you should fix the salaries of scientists compared to the average salary, because now the salary of a professor from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is below the average salary. This is absurd and is not tolerated at all by the Bulgarian society. That is why I call on the National Assembly, although we will now adopt this Strategy, no matter what weaknesses it has, to concentrate on this particular problem and not to give it away from its attention. The Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs will vote on the Strategy. I am pleased that the Commission and some of our colleagues from BSP have joined our vote on this. These particular problems cannot go beyond the fundamental, fundamental policy of a country. There's got to be a science policy. That is indisputable, as long as there are few people who, when they hear the word science, grab hold of the gun, as Goebbels said. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u110	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. - What's the line? I can't see. To speak, Mr. Tsonkov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u111	Dear Mrs. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The strategy we are about to adopt is important because it shows us whether we realize and how much we understand the importance of science for the development of the country. This is why the strategy is an expression of our desire to support science and to show what it means for the development of the system and the state. However, I would like to draw attention to a few weaknesses that cannot be ignored. If we compare the Strategy with the previous version of Prof. Denkov, we will see that it differs in nothing but financial expressions, the financial spine, i.e. the content, the directions in which it should be worked are still there. They are good, good intentions, but if we do not have a financial expression, a responsibility by the state through the commitments he makes in certain texts, then we are actually contradicting each other. How will we implement the Strategy and how do we show society and the scientific community that we want to help them when the state does not make a concrete financial commitment? Although we have added one text to the Commission: "With the exception of the European Structural Funds, when we record that the funding of research is from the state budget, we have a precise and clear commitment from the state. In fact, here and the government, lastly, does it think that science is important and we need to develop it? Do we realize the connection of science to the economy, to the prosperity of Bulgaria or not? We will support the Strategy because it is imperative that the European Programme be launched as well. We would like the Minister of Education and Science to think between the two readings whether it is still not better.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u112	There will be no second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u113	Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u114	It's accepted at one reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u115	To think, though, can we change this recording and show the concrete commitment of the state? And there's something else I'd like to say. Prof. Bachvarova paid attention to a meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance. There is a retreat from you, the government, about the attitude towards science. In Denkov's strategy is written 2020. 0.7% to reach science money. Now I can see in the estimates, in the projections, the estimates of. 0,5%. So are we going to develop science or not?! [[Reply by MP Milena Damyanova.]] . Yes, money is important, but still the state is blurting out responsibilities. So we can transfer responsibility, say: let municipalities with public finances provide funding for scientific organisations. Everyone is responsible, but this is a major priority of the state. We will support it, but you are wrong and we accept the previous version of a strategy that was proposed by Prof. Denkov. [[Reply by MP Milena Damyanova.]] On the contrary, with the financial texts that specify what the state will perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Any lines to Mr. Tsonkov's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u117	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! The research development strategy gives a long-term vision for the development of these researches in order to increase their efficiency and dignified positioning of Bulgarian science on the world stage. It is necessary, but a mandatory condition to finance the first axis of the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." The proposed option is a well-structured document, the applied expert approach in its development is clearly visible. Unfortunately, at the beginning of the document, the analysis of the state of the scientific system shows a sustained lag of our country compared to the countries comparable to us. The damage is serious, but with the hope of reversibility. The project includes detailed objectives and measures to overcome delays that are adequate and ambitious and their implementation would stimulate research in the country. It is certainly that good education goes with well-developed science always hand in hand. In this sense, science, which is somewhat more hidden to society, must be supported, and it must give what is necessary. For example, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is working successfully with the teachers on joint projects, helping in the qualification of the pedagogical staff. We must do everything possible to stop the process of reducing literacy, to love and respect the Bulgarian language, and for this it is necessary to write and speak properly. In this sense, the initiative of the Institute for Bulgarian Language is commendable on the eve of May 24th to launch a campaign. The writing remains! In secondary education there is a need to change the way of teaching, in which with the help of technology the student from a passive listener becomes an active participant in the training process. That is to say, this is the so-called scientific research approach in teaching subjects. In this sense, the scientific institutes must support the introduction of innovative teaching methods in school. Innovation is a driving force of development, based on long-standing research in different areas, but applied with understanding and trust. Another example is programmes that support young scientists, such as the Pitagor Competition, with the idea of preserving human potential in the field of science and its sustainable development. General is the conclusion that the triangle of knowledge is education, research and innovation. I am convinced of the need for balanced support of its individual components. In this sense, some of the measures laid down in the Strategy, which would stabilise the scientific system and which are relevant to the educational system, are: adequate funding corresponding to the vision for the development of science; funding linked to the results obtained; increasing private funding for innovation and measures to improve the conditions for attracting private capital in science; cooperation between scientific institutions, universities and business; priority development of new, non-traditional for our country scientific areas; increasing the mobility of scientists; attracting Bulgarian scientific diaspora to joint research; transforming Bulgaria into a training hub in the Balkans; promoting significant scientific achievements on the pages of the relevant institutes and social networks. Recently, the report "Economic justification of public funding for science and innovation and its impact', prepared by the European Commission, states that two thirds of economic development in Europe for a period of 12 years is due directly or indirectly to investments in science. The European Commission is expected to draw up measures to provide risk funds for start-ups other than those under Horizon 20/20 and the Structural Funds. They must guarantee capital for risk innovations and demonstration projects of 1, 5 or 10 million. The dollar, and the effect of the investments will be serious. The success of the Strategy is mostly linked to ensuring a sufficient number of motivated and highly qualified researchers, well paid, as well as expanding the competition and programming funding of research, and not least. In this sense and conviction about the importance of the Strategy the parliamentary group of GERB will support it. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u118	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. A statement by the parliamentary group of the DPS Mr. Kichikov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u119	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will vote for the adoption of the updated National Strategy for the Development of Research in the Republic of Bulgaria. We will support our proposed document so in the hope that it will not be another strategic document only of a wishful thinking and that, after one year or another, instead of taking into account the positive effect of its implementation, we will make findings such as those in the preamble, and they are not at all good. The strategy takes into account the critical state of research in our country, the lasting slowdown from other European countries. On one of the graphs for the dynamics of scientific results can be traced the decline in the scientific development of our country from 51st place to 58th place. Some countries from the so-called "World" world, such as Vietnam, Algeria and Pakistan, who have been quite far behind in this ranking by us, have already overtaken us. Given the above, we can say that the strategy is based on an objective analysis of the current state of research in Bulgaria. It describes the objectives and measures to catch up on delays, the expertise in their formulation is noted. Let us hope that after the adoption of the Action Plan by the Council of Ministers and the implementation of the National Strategy for Research Development, the strategy logo of the Strategy will be filled with content, namely better science for better Bulgaria! We know that the adoption of this document by the Bulgarian Parliament is of great importance, as it is a stage of the way to achieve the objectives laid down in the Partnership Agreement of the Republic of Bulgaria with the European Commission, but this should not be a self-target...... to adopt an act, document or strategy, because it is necessary and necessary. Each act of ours must be subject to one main goal: improving the quality of life and prosperity of the Bulgarian people. Therefore, we in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms still expect to see a management programme or Strategy for the Development of the country by its Council of Ministers, in which all policies leading to this main goal are scheduled, and not to vote in a piece, because we have recommendations from the Commission. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Kichikov. Do you have any lines, colleagues? No. To speak, the people representative Valeri Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Some would say that before us is another Strategy for the development of Bulgarian science, and will be partly right and partly wrong. First of all, it's not another one, it's the second one. And the other thing is that the first one's failure is taken into account. I am not sure exactly what are the reasons for this and whether they can be formulated in one statement about the state of both the scientific institutions in Bulgaria and at the level of modern research, the personnel development of these institutes, but I would like to start my speech with a statistic given within the Strategy. In the Strategy, I could not find those mechanisms and paths on which this statistic could be overcome. From the Member States of the European Union, as of 2015 Bulgaria separates 0.27% of its gross domestic product for scientific development. This is the lowest value of all countries belonging to the European Union. And I will read the countries that devote about 1%: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, the Czech Republic and Sweden. Well, it seems to me that anyone can make a connection between the amount of funds allocated and the level of economic, technological and social development of these countries. And the big question before us is: does Bulgaria want to change its development trajectory, which we have outlined for the past two decades towards a society with a low degree of overlap of science in industry, in agriculture, in excellence, does Bulgaria want to become a technologically developed society, or will it remain in that state in which we have found ourselves as a result of a number of historical and other management failures? From the strategy I do not see, perhaps somewhere I have missed something, how will this happen in the period that is ambitiously indicated from 2017 to 2030? There is not a single letter on what the Bulgarian state will do in the next 13 years. Do we aim to reach 1% of gross domestic product for science, or are we not setting such a goal? No one has said that this should happen next year or by 2020, but at the end of the period it should. The second question: how will this work? There's no letter on the subject. The third question: in what areas are the strategic intentions for the development of Bulgarian science, in which areas? It is clear that a country like Bulgaria cannot develop science at all. What are the scientific priorities? On this subject, I also could not find any substantial proposals. I want to go to a question that matters to every strategy, not just to science, but to science mostly. This is the question of international cooperation and the forms of cooperation with foreign scientific institutes of Bulgaria. First of all, the so-called chapter "Integration in the European Research Area and the international scientific community" seems quite simple to me. It ends up in a side where 10 dots are written inside. This represents the concept of the Strategy for our future integration in such a complex process as the modern research and development process and the diversity of scientific institutes and programmes. Even more than the review of the text, we are under the impression that Bulgarian science will develop within the European scientific space. How? Which are the structures, which are the mechanisms, what is the organization of the Bulgarian science, with which it is included in these international projects and researches? When we go to the next chapter, which is related to the so-called "Policy for the Development of Modern Science Infrastructure', that is, the place where the money is supposed to go, we find that there are revealed centres of excellence, centres of competence and regional scientific centres. So to say, this is the backbone of the institutional and organizational through which this Strategy will be launched. My fellow Members, I cannot disagree here that new forms of organisation are needed. But it cannot be here, where the questions about the development of modern scientific infrastructure are recorded, the traditional Bulgarian scientific institutes that have proven themselves, existed, the centers of universities, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the institutes of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, are not to appear, including as forms that need to be upgraded in any way. I have no explanation for this emptiness here. The question: what will the state budget be used for? It's decided very interesting. A major source of financing and modernisation of the building fund and other renovation activities is aimed at increasing the subsidy from the state budget. So, buildings, laboratories, everything we need for research, we send it to the state budget, science takes place in traditional institutes, and on the other hand, we create competence centres, excellence centres and regional science centres. What is the capacity of the Bulgarian science to burst in all these directions? What's he like now? Or does it not have demographic problems, it does not have trends that the most qualified scientific and other personnel leave the country for understandable reasons?! It seems to me that the strategy is written nicely, but it is beyond the time and space of modern realities for the development of science in Bulgaria. I would like to address the issue of international scientific activity or what was called, as it was said, and as I think it is appropriate, international cooperation, European scientific space. I don't know if there's a small fact here. If you look at the number of registered patents per unit of time, as some indication of success in the development of certain scientific approaches or achievements, the largest number of patents are registered in the United States. It's the same with East Asia. It's about Japan, China, Taiwan, South Korea. What are the forms for co-operation of Bulgarian science outside the European Union? In scientific terms, to be precise and fair, the centres of scientific and technological development have long been not only between Paris and London, even on the contrary: the European Union has become a consumer of scientific achievements and modern development products. What are the forms of Bulgarian science to co-operate with these emerging centres of scientific development in the Strategy there is no such horizon at all! And in front it says that the strategy had a vision. So, what vision, where's her vision?! Where is it?! As I look here at the forms of international cooperation in these ten points, I regret my finding. We must need a strategy and we will certainly accept it, but I have a deep doubt that this approach and on this basis can achieve the results that we would like to have. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Zablyanov, the numbers you presented for the implementation of the Bulgarian science and the share of gross domestic product that goes for research are unfortunately worse than those that you quoted because you did not distinguish between total expenditures for public and private research. Honourable Members, they are as follows: about 2.5% of the gross domestic product for the member states of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. In Bulgaria, 0.27 are slightly above 0.4%, as we all know that private business in Bulgaria is going to be a foot and a very small part of research. The countries with which we have to compete on the European and global market, the so-called emerging markets, China and Korea, allocate 4.5% of their gross domestic product. By making a modest account, colleague Zablyanov, we see that in the Strategy it says in 2030 to achieve 1.1%. So how are we going to catch up with European countries and how are we going to be competitive on the world market, honourable Member?! It's a lag strategy! To reach these countries, we have to set aside a larger share! Secondly, precisely because we are a less developed country, the state needs to help more in the initial period to get out of this condition, as did China, South Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong, as do countries, such as Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic. Finally, Commissioner Zablyanov, in the evaluation of the Strategy, you did not say a problem which I also highlighted in the Budget Committee. My fellow Members, I say this most friendly and collegiately. We adopt a Strategy for the Development of Science, provided that we Bulgarians do not have a Strategy for the Development of the Bulgarian Economy. How's this gonna work?! We want something impossible from our colleagues. We have made a strategy around which we should now think about how Bulgaria should develop instead of the other way around! However, we will vote on it because it is still linked to European funds and because we hope between first and second readings to make every effort to improve the option. [[Noise and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u124	Thank you, Professor. Gechev. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, I wouldn't have given you a line if you had really shown that you have read the Strategy carefully. Because you said there was no order or number anywhere that was shown in perspective on page 1. There is a table on Table No 5, which indicates the planned public financing of research and development as a percentage of gross domestic product. However, I will agree with my fellow Member from Volja....that not the percentage of gross domestic product is important, but money, because we can show high rates of gross domestic product, but some money. Then let's figure out what's more important! In 2025, 1 percent. Immediately after the table, in the second paragraph below, I will read it, as public and private investments are interlinked: the increase in public funding is expected to have a accelerating effect on private funding until values of 1,5% in 2020 to 2% of gross domestic product in 2025. Colleagues, please, when we comment on the documents, let us do it properly so that we do not abuse them! It's no use to anyone. It's this strategy that matters. I said it at the Commission. For the first time, I see such responsible control functions of the portfolio Commission to Parliament, which will have to validate the members of the International Control Council, which will accordingly examine draft documents, will give recommendations and so on. If we make the most of the powers given to us, I think that in the future the strategy can be improved and we can have a really very good plan for the development of research in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u126	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Zablyanov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Professor Gechev, thank you for the line. It seems to me that it further highlights some elements of the Strategy, which cannot be called visionary, so to call them, and in no way help the planned revival of Bulgarian science, our scientific institutes and our scientific achievements. I fully agree with you that the document in question is actually planning at best, including this 1% by 2025, the preservation of our present state. Mrs. Damyanova, there is an unexplained issue in this 1% and this is the issue of public and private funds. The issue of the distribution of public and private funds in the Bulgarian case has nothing to do with the one in the developed economies. It's not a coincidence, Professor. Gechev paid attention to this fact. In Bulgaria, the percentage of private investment in science is negligible. For this reason, the hypothesis on which the Strategy is stepping up that funding will mainly develop at the expense of operational programmes, and at the beginning of the text of the Strategy there is a clear finding that this funding is linked to cases that are separated from national funding because no one wants to give you money when they see that you are not engaged in the development of science, so we enter into an enchanted circle. For this reason, I seriously doubt that this 1% will be achieved, for the simple reason that those who offer different forms of scientific funding want to see a serious counter commitment and this commitment in 2025. This is the end of the programming period. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Firstly, I am voting on the proposals proposed by the Commission and adopted by the same amendments to the National Research Development Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria 2017. 33 and 62 is proposed after the words "the consolidated fiscal programme" to be added "with the exception of expenditure with a source of the European Structural and Investment Funds." This is unanimously supported by the Commission, which leads to an addition to Section 4.1 of Horizonal Activity 1. 33 and Section 5.2, in Table 6, in the indicator "Financials of research and development under the consolidated fiscal programme as a percentage of gross domestic product', p. 62. I shall put to the vote the proposals made and adopted by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 179 MPs: for 177, against none, abstention 2. The proposals have been adopted in addition to the draft strategy decision. Please vote on the draft decision, as presented to you, with the already adopted additions to the Strategy and the Annex. Vote 185 MPs: for 181, no objection, abstention 4. The National Research Development Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria 2017 " 2030" has been adopted. We continue with the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE CONCESSION LAW. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The report will introduce us to the President of the Commission, the national representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Law on concessions, No 754-01-13, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017. At its meeting held on 31 May 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Law on concessions, No 754-01-13, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Marieta Germanska, Director of the Economic and Social Policy Directorate. Ms. Mariana Slavkova and Mrs. Georgi Yonchev, State experts at the same Directorate; Mr. Kamen Kolev, Deputy Chairman of the Bulgarian Confederation of Employers and Industrialists, Mrs. Rumyana Georgieva, Secretary of State and Head of the Industrial Relations Sector, and Mr. Stefan Iliev, Secretary of the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Tomislav Donchev. The bill was presented by Mr. Danail Kirilov, who pointed out that it introduced the requirements of Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts, which is part of the European Union legislative package for reforming public procurement law and concessions (together with Directive 2014/24/EU on public procurement and Directive 2014/24 on the award of contracts by sectoral contracting entities). He noted that the proposed Law aims to improve the provisions in force on concessions and proposes the repeal of the existing Law on concessions and the Law on Public-Private Partnership, as an essential part of the matter covered by them is subject to the framework of the concession directive. The bill offers two main forms of public-private partnership, with which a public partner entrusts works or services to an economic operator, and the concession for use, which is the traditional concession in accordance with the existing concession law. It also offers three types of procedures, which are: open procedure, competitive procedure with negotiation and competitive dialogue. All procedural guarantees required under the concession directive shall be introduced by ensuring the rules required by the Directive for declaring, transparency, non-discrimination and competition on the part of the concession holders, as well as the requirement that the concession holder carry out both control and monitoring for the implementation of the concession contract. The concession directive introduces a threshold of EUR 5 225 000, with concessions above that threshold being of cross-border interest, and therefore all other concessions for works and services below that threshold, as well as concessions for use, are defined as concessions without cross-border interest. The draft law provides for concessions to be awarded by the ministers and mayors of municipalities, such as the Council of Ministers and municipal councils retain their powers to approve pre-defined decisions. It is proposed that each concession should be for a specified period and that its specific duration cannot be longer than the maximum period provided for in the opening of the procedure by a decision of the concession. In order to ensure the public interest, an additional guarantee shall be introduced as a sanction by the National Assembly where the maximum period set by the concession is 35 years or longer. With regard to municipal concessions, when the maximum term is 20 years or longer, approval is proposed by a majority of two thirds of the total number of municipal councilors, and when the deadline is 35 years or longer, apart from a decision by the municipal council, a decision by the National Assembly is also needed. A legal possibility shall be established in the national concession register to publish both information on the execution of contracts and information on the conduct of concession award procedures in order to expand the publicity and make it a centralised administrative information system. It is also envisaged that tenders and applications should be submitted as electronic documents for a smoother transition to electronic services. The legislative initiative will result in attracting private capital for the implementation of works and services, providing that the budget allocated by the state to be spent significantly more effectively by their management by economic operators at the best quality-price ratio. The expected consequences of the adoption of the Law include extending the possibilities of using the concession as a form of a public-private partnership for the creation of public resources, the development of infrastructure and services without or with a minimum financial contribution of the State and municipalities, as well as the creation of an opportunity to use the private sector's experience in achieving efficiency and efficiency in the provision of services of public interest. Its adoption will contribute to the long-term benefits of concession contracts, both economically and socially, through the application of innovative ideas and practices, in order to improve the quality and optimization of the price of services provided while stimulating competition in the internal market by creating additional opportunities to promote private investment in the field of construction, maintenance and management of technical and social infrastructure sites. The discussion was attended by the MPs: Philip Popov, Hamid Hamid, Christian Mitev, Krum Zarkov, Yavor Bojankov, Valeri Zablyanov, Emil Dimitrov, Dimitar Lazarov and Danail Kirilov. MPs Filip Popov, Valeri Zablyanov, Krum Zarkov and Yavor Bojankov expressed their negative opinion on the bill. People's representative Hamid Hamid expressed his support to the Bill, pointing out that between first and second reading he would propose the clarification of individual provisions concerning increasing the amount of penalties in Chapter 9.. The MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov expressed their support for the bill. Mr. Mitev focused on four provisions in the bill: 1. in respect of the so-called "reserved' and "reserved' applications for the creation of protected jobs for disabled or disadvantaged persons, it is envisaged that a reserved concession may only be an economic operator, provided that at least 70 per cent of its workers and employees are disabled or disadvantaged persons; 2. in relation to public-private companies it is envisaged that the public partner (state or municipality) must participate in the management; 3. An explicit prohibition shall also be introduced to carry out management transactions in real estate which have been deported by the public partner to public-private companies, and 4. It is envisaged that the payment of concession fees for works and services will always be mandatory. In response to the questions asked by Mr. Bozankov and Mr. Zarkov, Mr. Kirilov explained that the Law on concessions does not affect the decentralisation of the local authorities and that the National Assembly is the legislative body that reflects the interests of all municipalities and that the deadline is a mandatory element of the procedure in determining the concession and is set by the initial notice for opening the procedure by the concession as a financial and economic parameter within which the participants submit their proposals. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the Council, 8 votes against the Council and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law on concessions, No 754-01-13, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017. Madam President, I ask the floor for a procedural proposal which I failed to make at the opening of the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u130	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure for admission for the representatives of the Council of Ministers Mrs. Marieta Germanska, Director of the Directorate of Economic and Social Policy, Ms. Mariana Slavkova and Mr. Georgi Yonchev, State experts at the same Directorate, for the time during which we are discussing this Draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Please, voting mode. Vote 85 MPs: 66, against 6, abstention 13. The proposal is accepted...... please invite the guests to the hall. We continue with the next Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u133	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on concessions No 754-01-13, submitted by Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 1 June 2017, together with the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, discussed the Draft Law on concessions, No 754-01-13, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017. Representatives of the Economic and Social Policy Directorate from the administration of the Council of Ministers took part in the meeting. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Danail Kirilov. The proposed entirely new Law is in line with Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts (the concession directive). The concession directive is part of the European Union (EU) legislative package for reforming Community law in the field of public procurement and concessions, together with Directive 2014/24/EU on public procurement and the Directive on procurement by sectoral contracting entities. Within the scope of the concession directive are activities whose regulation in the Bulgarian legislation is contained in two separate laws: the Law on concessions and the Law on Public-Private Partnership. The analysis of the requirements of the concession directive and the compliance of the two laws with it require the adoption of an approach to the adoption of a new concession law. In principle, the matter to be settled in order to introduce the requirements of the concession directive into national law is the same as under the concession law, but the changes are substantial and numerous. This circumstance covers the hypothesis of art. 11, para. 1 of the Law on Legislative Acts and imposes the annulment of the Law on concessions and its replacement with a new one. An essential part of the matter subject to the provisions of the Public-Private Partnership Act falls within the characteristics of concessions and in accordance with art. 10, para. 1 of the Law on Legislative Acts should be governed by one and not by two separate laws. The structure of the Draft Law generally follows the structure of the Law on concessions and the Law on Public-Private Partnership, which are similar, aiming at continuity in legislation and facilitating law enforcement. In accordance with Decree No 883 implementing the Law on Legislative Acts in 9 Annexes in the form of lists, activities are exported which are included or excluded from the scope of the Bill, international conventions in the social field and in the field of the environment, which should be respected in the implementation of concessions, as well as the minimum content of notices that disclose the opening of a procedure for determining the concessionaire. The bill is comprehensive and in the necessary fullness governs the public relations which are subject to a permanent framework and to a sufficient extent the rules for their implementation. In this regard, it is considered that rules on the application of the law are not necessary. A legislative delegation of the Council of Ministers is envisaged to issue two regulations. The bill repealed the current Law on concessions and the Law on Public-Private Partnership, as it reorganised the public relations governed by them. The transitional and final provisions provide for amendments to a number of laws containing provisions that fall within the scope of the new concession law, aiming at the terminology of the texts governing requirements relating to the specifics of the concession object and the specific conditions arising thereof, and the establishment of prerequisites for the implementation of the new concession law. During the discussion, some of the speakers supported the proposed Draft Law, stressing that the new regulations create better prerequisites for granting concessions for the construction of important infrastructure projects for the state and municipalities and their realization under public-private partnership conditions. The legislation in force so far has shown weaknesses which largely stem from the practice of concession being granted either natural resources or existing infrastructure sites. So far, no concession for construction for a significant infrastructure establishment has been granted, which means that the concession institute and the public-private partnership in their current arrangements does not allow for their effective use for their main purpose.. The provision of works concessions, with subsequent provision and management of services through the concession site, combined with the assumption by the concession holder of the construction and operating risk. The question was also raised as to what the proposed bill is different from the one adopted by the previous National Assembly and whether changes were made to the provisions imposed veto by the President of the Republic. On the part of the importers, it was made clear that the Draft Law reproduces the texts of the draft legislation adopted in the second vote by the previous National Assembly, making four changes, but they are not related to the veto imposed for lack of concrete reasons. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 15 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u134	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u135	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u136	We are moving on to the Environment and Water Commission report. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u137	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! May I have your attention, please? ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Law on concessions, No 754-01-13, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017. At its regular meeting on 1 June 2017, the Environment and Water Commission examined at first reading the Draft Law on concessions, No 754-01-13, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017 and allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs as the lead. At the meeting of the Ministry of Environment and Waters attended: Nikolay Kanchev Deputy Minister, Krasimira Brumcheva Director of Water Management and Rumyana Bratovanova State Expert in the same Directorate. The President of the Commission opened the meeting, presented the guests and announced the agenda adopted by the members of the committee with 12 votes......... and 6 against....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On behalf of the importers, the Draft Law and the reasons for its submission were presented by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova, who pointed out that the EU-level concession directive, Directive 2014/23/EU, adopted a new regulation of concession contracts, which was first regulated in an autonomous act. It gives rise to the current framework of matter for concessions under the repealed Directive (EC), which makes the differences between the national regulations in force and the new system of concessions at Community level. The differences are mainly determined by the European Union's new approach to distinguishing between different forms of partnership between the public and private sectors, with a leading role taking on the operational risk of the concessionaire. The scope of the concession directive includes activities governed by national law in two separate laws: the Law on concessions and the Law on Public-Private Partnership. The analysis of the legislation relating to concessions has shown weaknesses which largely stem from the practice of concession being granted either natural resources (shores, mineral waters, underground riches) or existing infrastructure sites. Until now, no concession has been granted for construction for a significant infrastructure establishment, which means that the concession institute is not used effectively for its primary purpose, with the subsequent provision and management of services through the concession site, combined with the assumption by the concession holder of the construction and operating (operative) risk. The main reasons for the ineffective use of the Institute of concessions are: a discrepancy between the only procedure under the Law on concessions for determining concessionaires and the opportunities given by European legislation; the limited possibility of payment by the concession and the attitude in society that the concession is perceived as a source of revenue and not as an instrument for building infrastructure with private investment and providing services at the best quality-price ratio. In the Public-Private Partnership Act: the Public-Private Partnership is defined as a long-term contractual cooperation for a public-interest activity for better absorption of public funds and distribution of risks between the public and private partners, that is to say, the defined partnership falls within the scope of the concession directive; two forms of public-private partnership are basically governed; so far, there are two forms of public-private partnership; so far, no public-private partnership projects under the Public-Private Partnership Act have been implemented due to limited scope of services, inefficient planning scheme, financial conditions and inappropriate procedures for choosing a private partner. The analysis of the requirements of the concession directive and the compliance of the concession law and the Public-Private Partnership Act with it require the adoption of an approach to the adoption of a new concession law to unite the existing concession law and the Public-Private Partnership Act. The bill retains the rule laid down in national law to limit the circle of entities which may award concessions subject to the status of ownership. In this regard, concessions can be awarded not by all public authorities, but only by ministers and mayors of municipalities. With regard to contracting authorities, the bill retains the permanently defined term of the concession holder named after the entity carrying out the concession award actions [[Exercises preparatory actions and organises the procedure for determining concessionaires]] , conclude the concession contract and is a party to it. A new legislative solution is that the functions of a concession are assigned directly to the ministers and mayors of municipalities. The main distinction of concessions is according to their subject-matter: for construction; for services; for the use of state and municipal property. The inclusion of the deadline as a award criterion shall not exceed the maximum period specified in the notice. The Law introduces additional guarantees to prevent the possibility of an eternal concession, such as where the maximum concession period for a concession for construction or for a concession for services is equal to or exceeding 35 years is required and the permission of the National Assembly is required for municipal concessions for construction and concessions for services, where the maximum concession term is over 20 years. Contracting authorities and contracting entities shall always comply with the principles laid down in art. 3 of the concession directive: equality, non-discrimination and transparency. The Bill sets out three types of procedures that take into account the practical complexity of concessions: open, competitive procedure with negotiation and competitive dialogue. All procedural guarantees required under the concessions directive shall be introduced by ensuring the rules required by the Directive for declaring, transparency, non-discrimination. A preliminary assessment of the impact of the Law on concessions has been applied to the bill, indicating the acquisition of private capital for the execution of works and services, the use of the professional experience of economic operators to achieve the best price-quality ratio, transfer of duties and functions by public authorities, release of administration from non-existent activities and satisfy the pressing needs of society. Interested parties were identified, a general cost-benefit analysis was made and the administrative burden and the impact on the regulatory framework were determined. The attitude on the submitted bill took: the national representative Manol Genov on the impact assessment of the bill, which received a reply from Mrs. Alexandrova; the People's Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov, who pointed out the correctness of the presentation by the importer and drew attention to the public interest; the President of the Commission Ivelina Vasileva, who announced that she had a detailed opinion of the Council of Ministers, placed on the National Assembly's website, giving the floor of Deputy Minister Kanchev to present the opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Water; Mr. Kanchev presented the positive opinion of the Ministry, noting that the concessions of mineral waters are governed by the Water Act and that there are some proposals for small amendments and additions that can be made between the two votes; the people's representative Petar Petrov regarding the relationship of the Draft with criminal procedures, and the national representative Rumen Georgiev, who made a proposal for the discussion of the bill. The chairman of the committee put Mr. Georgiev's proposal to vote, as a result of which it was not adopted by the members of the Commission............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... After the end of the discussions and the voting procedure, the Committee on Environment and Water, with 12 votes in favour, 6 votes in favour and 1 abstention, supported the draft and expressed the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Law on concessions, No 754-01-13, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u138	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. Next is the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, which will be presented by Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u139	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the Law on concessions, No 754-01-13, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 2 June 2017, a Draft Law on concessions was discussed, No 754-01-13, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Dimitar Genovski, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mrs. Albena Lazarova, Director of the Department of Economic and Social Policy at the Council of Ministers, and Ms. Mariana Slavkova, State Expert in the same Directorate. The bill was presented by the MP Anna Alexandrova. Ms. Alexandrova explained that the proposed Draft provides for the annulment of the Law on concessions and the Public-Private Partnership Act because of the approach adopted for the adoption of a new Law on concessions to introduce the numerous requirements of Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts (the concession directive). The bill retains the limitation of the circle of entities that may grant concessions established in national law. The proposal for a new legislative decision is that the duties of the concession should be assigned directly by the ministers and mayors of municipalities, and the previous conces "the Council of Ministers, respectively the municipal council, only to approve the basic acts relating to the award and implementation of concessions. The main distinction of concessions is according to their subject-matter: for works, for services and for the use of state and municipal property. It is envisaged that the revenues of the concessionaire from the operation of the construction and of the services will be formed by payments from consumers or consumers and the concession or only from the concession. Payment from the concession to the concession holder may be made in the case of so-called "not only funding receivables' where direct payments from consumers or other persons are not due to the service provider and where such payments are due but are not intended to be received by the concession holder. The Member of the National Assembly stressed that the concession directive does not require the setting of a maximum period which is common to all concessions. The Law lays down an obligation on the concession holder to reach the shortest possible time limit for the concession subject to certain requirements. Mrs. Alexandrova pointed out that additional guarantees are being introduced to prevent the possibility of providing the so-called "eternal contributions': - where the maximum period for concession for works or concession for services is equal to or exceeding 35 years, the permission of the National Assembly shall be required; - for municipal concessions for works and concessions for services where the maximum period determined by the concession is more than 20 years, it is necessary to require permission from the municipal council, adopted by a majority of 2/3 of the total number of advisers; where the period is 35 years or longer, permission from the National Assembly is also required for the opening of the procedure. The requirements of the concession directive are applicable only to works concessions and service concessions that are equal to or higher than 5 million. Two hundred and fifty-five thousand. This so-called threshold is taken as a distinction criterion where concessions of equal value or exceeding this threshold are defined as concessions of cross-border interest. The Member of the National Assembly stressed that the Draft Law also lays down rules on concessions without cross-border interest, as well as on concessions for use which are also excluded from the scope of the concession directive. Ms. Alexandrova pointed out that under the current Law on concessions the only eligible concession award procedure is the open procedure. The bill provides for two more procedures: a call procedure with negotiation and a competitive dialogue that provides the concession with a certain degree of flexibility and allows for the determination of optimal parameters of the specific concession. The Final Regulations make changes to a number of sectoral laws, including the Civil Aviation Act, the Railway Transport Act and the Maritime Spaces Act, the inland waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. The amendments are related to the repeal of provisions on the procedure for granting concessions, as well as the terminology of the bill. In the course of the discussion, questions were raised regarding the maximum duration of the concession and, in particular, about the possibility of the occurrence of the so-called "eternal' concessions. In response, the representatives of the Council of Ministers indicated that the concession directive does not provide for a deadline and the limitation provided for in the Bill is that concessions are granted with a deadline, that is, there is always a deadline and it is bound by the economic balance of interests and the return on investments. They added that the Bill provides that when the maximum duration of the concession is over 35 years, determined on the basis of the financial economic model of the concession, permission from the National Assembly should be obtained. On the basis of the debates and opinions held, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 10 votes....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u140	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Following is the Commission's report on children, youth and sport. Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u141	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on concessions No 754-01-13, submitted by Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017. At its extraordinary meeting on 1 June 2017, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports discussed the Law on concessions, No 754-01-13, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Daniel Kirilov. The whole new Law submitted is in accordance with Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament 2014 and of the Council of 26 February on the award of concession contracts. Within the scope of the concession directive are activities whose regulation in the Bulgarian legislation is contained in two separate laws: the Law on concessions and the Law on Public-Private Partnership. The analysis of the compliance of these two laws with the requirements of the concession directive imposed the adoption of a new Law on concessions to unite them. The bill retains the rule laid down in national law to limit the circle of entities that may award concessions subject to the status of ownership. In its statement, the importer focuses on the part of the Bill which falls within the competence of the Commission. The importer clarified that the Bill offers two main forms of concession: a public private partnership with which the public partner entrusts works or services to the economic operator and the concession of use which we already know from the concession laws in force. For the first time, the directive, respectively, introduced a threshold of 5 million. Two hundred and fifty-five thousand. EUR, which divides concessions into two groups: those with cross-border interest and those not of cross-border interest. For concessions exceeding this threshold, it is necessary, according to the requirements of the Directive, to have notifications to the countries of the European Union and, respectively, the requirements for both the register of concessions, which is specifically created and further developed with a view to publicity and transparency, and undoubtedly increases competition in the procedures for the selection of concessionaires. Another important focus is the specific legal and competitive decision regarding concession procedures for time limits. The concession shall start as a fixed term and the concession contract shall be concluded for a period of time, the duration of which shall be determined by competition in the concession award procedure by including the term as a criterion and shall not exceed the maximum period set by the concession. Thus, each candidate seeks to offer a lower deadline, to offer more economically justified and attractive concession indicators, to give a shorter return on investment resources, to give a better price to the public service. Three are the ways of the race: open procedure, competitive procedure with negotiation and competitive dialogue. This Law, unlike all laws before, gives us the flexibility and opportunity to have concessions on sports facilities and facilities, concessions on types of social services. With regard to the possibility of using sports objects by third parties on a competitive, transparent legal basis can be regulated in the Law on Physical Education and Sports. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Slavcho Atanasov, Vessela Lecheva, Stefan Apostolov, Hristo Prodanov, Valentin Milushev, Theodora Halacheva and Ivan Chenchev. During the discussion, some of the speakers supported the proposed Draft Law, stressing that the new regulations create better prerequisites for granting concessions for the construction of important projects for the state and municipalities in the field of sports infrastructure and their realization in terms of public-private partnership. It was stressed that the concession is a good opportunity for investment and for better management, and this is a good way to preserve many of the sports facilities, whose long-standing exploitation requires too much financial resources to maintain them in good condition. During the discussion, it was noted that before proceeding to the application of the rules which this Law provides with regard to sporting objects and facilities, it is necessary to draw up and introduce standards in view of what sport infrastructure is necessary in individual settlements, in relation to the implementation of state policy and policy at local and regional level in the field of sport. This to a small extent also applies to sports facilities and facilities of public government property related to the state policy for the development of sport for highly controversial craftsmanship, as well as the presentation of the Bulgarian sport internationally. The question was raised as to the need for guarantees for access to sports facilities and facilities of state and municipal property granted to concessionaires, children and young people free of charge or for preferential payment, as well as persons with permanent disabilities or disadvantaged persons. The importer replied to the questions asked by clarifying that the criteria defining sports facilities and facilities of national importance and those operated for the benefit of municipalities should be determined by the special law in the field or, in this case, the Law on Physical Education and Sports. The same applies to the placing of clauses in the concession contract relating to the social commitments of the State and municipalities in the field of sport. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held, with 12 votes for the concession, 7 against and without votes, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Law on concessions, No 754-01-13, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 30 May 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. The latest report is from the Energy Commission. Mr. Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u143	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Law on concessions, No 754-01-13, submitted by Mr. Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017. At its meeting held on 1 June 2017, together with the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Energy Commission examined the Draft Law on concessions, No 754-01-13, submitted by Mr. Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May. This Decision shall The meeting was attended by representatives of the Council of Ministers: Ms. Marieta Germanska, Director of the Economic and Social Policy Directorate, Mr. Georgi Neykov and Mrs. Mariana Slavova. The bill was presented by Mr. Danail Kirilov. It lays down the requirements of Directive 2014/23 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts (Recession Directive). In this case, a whole new law is proposed, which essentially brings together the existing framework for concessions and public-private partnership. The new law repealed the Public-Private Partnership Act, as an essential part of the matter covered by it falls within the characteristics of concessions. The draft is structured into nine chapters without the need for additional adoption of the Rules for its implementation, providing only for the adoption of two regulations to further develop the financial and economic elements of the concession and the procedure for carrying out monitoring, management and control. It defines three main types of concessions according to their subject-matter, a concession for works, a concession for services and a concession for the use of state and municipal property. The bill introduces the concept of a threshold which represents the sum of EUR 5 225 000, defined as a criterion of distinction. The concessions above this threshold are defined as concessions of cross-border interest. The concessions of cross-border interest shall apply the requirements for publication of a notice on them in the Official Journal of the European Union. The concept of "concedent" is preserved, but with other content. Concedents will be ministers and mayors of municipalities. The bill pays attention to the financial and economic elements of the concession: value of the concession, way of determining the estimated value of the concession, operational risk, duration of the concession, economic balance, payments from the concessionaire to the concession and from the concession to the concession holder. Each concession has a fixed deadline. The duration of the concession will be determined in advance by the notice of the procedure and will be based on the financial and economic analysis drawn up by the concession and this will be the maximum period on which the participants in the procedure will compete, i.e. that period within the procedure itself will be reduced because it is intended to be a mandatory criterion when determining the successful tenderer. Conditions shall be established for much greater publicity and transparency of the process, providing for each step with all documents, and for each decision of the committees to conduct procedures to be uploaded to the website of the National Concession Register. During the discussion, some of the speakers supported the proposed Draft Law, stressing that the new regulations create better prerequisites for granting concessions for the construction of important infrastructure projects for the state and municipalities and their realization under public-private partnership conditions. The legislation in force so far has shown weaknesses which largely stem from the practice required by the concession to provide either natural resources or existing infrastructure sites. Until now, no concession has been granted for construction for a significant infrastructure establishment, which means that the concession institute and the public-private partnership in their current arrangements does not allow their effective use for their main purpose.. The provision of works concessions, with subsequent provision and management of services through the site of the concession, combined with the assumption by the concession holder of the construction and operating risk. The question was also raised as to whether the proposed bill is different from the one adopted by the previous National Assembly and whether changes were made to the provisions imposed veto by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the part of the importers, it was made clear that the Draft Law reproduces the texts of the draft legislation adopted in the second vote by the previous National Assembly, which has made several changes, but they are not related to the veto imposed by the President due to a lack of specificity in the reasons. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Committee on Energy with 8 votes in favour, 6 votes in favour and without abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Law on concessions, No 754-01-13, submitted by Mr. Danail Kirilov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 30 May 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. There are no reports from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Culture and Media. We continue with the opinion of the importer. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u145	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The reports so far have highlighted a large part of the essential elements of the new concession law. For this reason, I will allow myself to be laconic rather than repeat what you have already heard. I will not comment on the implementation of the European directives. They were commented in detail in the reports and in the committees. Quite briefly the difference between the current Law on concessions to the proposed Draft Law on concessions. The existing concession law is from 2006 and does not allow the effective use of the concession institute in the following three main guidelines. Under the concession law, the only permissible procedure for determining concessionaire is the open procedure which limits the opportunities given by European law. Second, the possibility of payment by the concession holder is very limited. This restriction has a deterrent effect on the public authorities for the provision of the so-called "non-fundable receivables', requiring reimbursement of part of the costs incurred by the public partner. For example, to achieve a socially acceptable price for a service or for services where consumers do not owe fees or a consumer is the public authority. Third, the concession directive does not, in principle, provide for the framework of the concession institute adopted by the concessionaire's Law for payment to the concession holder, as this payment would be included in the concessionaire's costs of carrying out the concession activities, and this would lead to an unnecessary extension of the period in order to enable the concessionaire to recover the investments. In addition, at present, the concession arrangements are contained in numerous separate laws for the purposes of individual articles. The work on this Law on concessions started more than two and a half years ago when, in view of the new European regulation, a full analysis of the Bulgarian concession legislation has started to assess to what extent it meets the requirements of the directives. Finally, the conclusion is that there are many significant and numerous differences, which implies the annulment of the Law on concessions and the creation of a brand new legal act so as to apply the most fully and most precisely the requirements of European law. In addition, this review also raises the issue of the law on public-private partnership not in force and, in view of the material link between the two institutions and their proximity, so we have a detailed provision in this Draft as regards public-private partnership. Regarding the types of concessions, also in the reports and colleagues in the committees, the types of concessions were discussed, including the extension of the scope of the new concession law to the types of concessions. I would like to say a few words about the financial and economic model of concessions. The project adopts the main model of distribution of the risks of the concession where the concession holder carries the full operational risk of being exposed to market fluctuations. In this regard, the main elements of the concession are defined by their financial and economic nature. First, distribution of risks. The concessionaire shall in all cases take the operational risk. He is not guaranteed the recovery of the investments made in expenditure. In the case of a concession for construction, the concessionaire must also assume the construction risk. In the case of the award of works or services involving concession elements, but the operational risk is not entirely borne by the concessionaire, the contract should be awarded as a public contract. Here, you see here there is a clear division of the criteria between concession and public procurement. Payment from the concession to the concessionaire for the reimbursement of investment costs, covering the operating needs of the concession holder, outside the operating income received by the concession holder.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Where the objective is to achieve a socially acceptable price of services, at public regulated prices of services, then Although it is not regulated in principle by the Directive, the project governs it as admissible where the concession is subject to state municipal ownership and depending on the fair distribution of the economic benefit of the concession between the concession and the concessionaire, the estimated amount of investment in the concession site, the achievement of a socially acceptable price of the services provided by the concession entity. The next principle in the financial and economic model is the economic balance, the balance between the benefits for the concessionaire and the concession and the distribution of risks between them. The defined economic balance of the concession shall be maintained throughout the concession contract. Value of the concession: it shall be determined on the basis of the total turnover of the concessionee for the duration of the contract. At present, the Law on concessions does not require a determination of such value. Quite briefly for the term, as it will obviously continue to be an element of the debate. In the case of long-term concession contracts, in order to further protect the public interest, two guarantees of lawful conduct of a concession procedure shall be introduced. In the case of a concession for works or services for which the maximum period determined by the concession is 35 years or longer, the selection procedure of the concession holder shall begin with a decision of the National Assembly as an immediate expressor of the will of the sovereign. Similarly, where the mayor of the municipality decides to grant a concession for works or services with a maximum duration of 20 years or more, the procedure shall be opened by a decision of the municipal council and, if the deadline is 35 years or longer, a decision of the National Assembly is also necessary. I will limit the exhibition to this point with a view to the expiry of the plenary session hour, but there is much to be said about the details and the individual elements. It is clear that the debates on tomorrow will be extremely tense, but I would ask, apart from emotion, that we strive to be objective and correct in those in our exhibitions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-07.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. You're right, the time for plenary is over. A regular plenary session will be held tomorrow, 8 June 2017, at 9.00 pm. The first item will be point four of our program. I am adjourning today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
