ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Allow me to present to you the Work Programme for the period 27 September 2017 including which was examined and adopted at the Conference of Presidents this morning: 1. Report on the state of defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016 The debates were held at our last meeting. The vote is coming up. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The People's Representative Konstantin Popov and a group of MPs on 22 June 2017. He was accepted at the first vote on 6 July 2017. 3. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 9 August 2017. 4. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Special Intelligence Means Act. The people's representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 13 September 2017. 5. Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for 2016. Import is the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. 6. First vote on the bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game. The representatives of the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 13 September 2017. We propose that this be point one for Friday, 29 September 2017 so that a report by the Committee on Environment and Water can be presented to the MPs. 7. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2016. Importer is the Communications Regulation Commission on 30 June 2017. We propose to be the first item for Thursday, 28 September 2017. 8. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission 2016 "Analyse of the Services of the Services." Importer is the Communications Regulation Commission on 30 June 2017. We propose that this be point two for Thursday, 28 September 2017. 9. Parliamentary control. Please vote. Vote 181 MPs: 112, against 53, abstention 16. Our work program has been accepted. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) did not support this agenda because we believe that it is not normal that opposition bills should not be considered and should not be found on the agenda of the National Assembly. When it comes to Penal Code, to drop non-important texts, because in society there is a conviction of impunity of the perpetrators of the crimes, these bills are not important for the government, and this bill was tabled on 25 May and was not seen by the leading Legal Commission. When it comes to a Bill concerning the recovery of the tired requirement in cases of a dangerous relapse, the unsuffered part of the punishment is not more than three years This is precisely the case of those....who allowed themselves to kidnap Bulgarian citizens in one period of time. When it comes to a bill on the Commercial Law, where to end the wicked practice, companies with obligations, mainly to the NRA, and workers' salaries to be transferred to socially weak citizens and to improve the protection of workers and employees who have not received wages, is again not important to the government. When it comes to the Law on Hospitals, which was introduced on 19 July, which concerns precisely the greater protection of doctors, it was not once again seen by the committee responsible. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, hunting and game are extremely important to the government and has been tabled as a point on today's agenda! A bill that was tabled, notice, on 13 September, and laws of the opposition, which concern the problems of Bulgarian citizens who were tabled May, June, July, they are not even seen in committees. We strongly object to this way of working in the current parliament. Perhaps it is returning the tendency not to look at opposition laws again, but, dear Mr President, please take steps not to really get this done and after a month or two, to object in this way again. Because, in the end, there is a huge part of the Bulgarian population that is interested in these problems, not when hunters can hunt. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u3	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. We assume that the procedure is in the manner of conduct. The only difference between the bills that you mentioned were some that were included and some that are not included is that there is a report by the committee responsible. There's no other difference. So that's the only reason they're not included in the program. Without a committee report, we return to a previous conversation... Thank you. There is a proposal based on art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly: we offer as a point in the National Assembly's Program for the Period 27-29 September 2017 The First Voting of the Draft Law amending the Penal Code, No 754-01-9, of 25 May 2017. The People's Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs are importing. Who will present the proposal? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With the current proposal of the Law amending the Criminal Code, we propose the dropping of penal texts in the relevant provisions of Chapter 5 of the Criminal Code, which is dictated by the increased public need for adequate and proportionate criminal-legal response to the increasing criminal abuse of movable property and a set of movable property, including household and personal property of persons. These provisions, as they act at the moment, create a real danger that the effective punishment is disproportionately light to the public danger of the act for which the sentence was given and to the person of the condemned person. The proposed amendments will result in a real increase in the preventive effect, avoiding recurrence, i.e. a reduction in such a type of crime. The proposed changes are adequate to the current state of public relations and their adoption will not lead to a qualitative change in criminal policy adopted in the Penal Code, albeit adopted in another public-political situation. Statistics clearly point, and civil society sees and feels that crimes against property, especially those in the field of domestic relations related to household and personal movable property, are constantly increasing in recent years and occupying an increasing share of the total number of crimes committed. In view of this trend, the legislator cannot remain a passive and passive observer and not take the necessary legislative measures to influence this negative phenomenon in order to end, restrict and punish it with the means of criminal law. A large part of property abuse remains not even reported by the victims due to their demotivation and discouragement resulting from disproportionate light penalties and assessment by the relevant competent state authorities of their minor importance. The regulatory framework of disproportionate light penalties, except that it is unfair from the point of view of prevailing public attitudes, public needs is also contrary to the objectives of the punishment laid down in art. 36 of the penal code. The current framework for these acts does not achieve any of the objectives of punishment, and this is known by the entire civil society. It is for this reason that we are proposing these amendments to the Penal Code, which have been enshrined in a large part of the election programmes, including the gentlemen of the.............................................................................. We therefore expect to be supported in this House precisely for this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. We are voting on the proposal for inclusion in the Programme of the proposal of colleagues from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. Vote 191 MPs: 92 against 48, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Lazarov, re-vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask you to re-vote this point. Strange why non-jurists colleagues from BSP raise the issue of the minor case of a bill which lawyers, including lecturers, including sympathizers [[strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u7	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u8	...and members of the BSP said that this is the peak of populism.. The Small Case Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u10	Which means, for ten leva, court-martials. But colleagues aren't lawyers, they're obviously looking for populism in this room. I'm asking for a re-vote. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u11	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. It's a re-vote. 195 MPs voted: 91, 63, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's the way it's supposed to be. Since you admitted a statement by Mr. Lazarov, which contradicts the regulations, but even more interesting is that perhaps Mr. Lazarov lives in another world, parallel to the ruling...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u13	Mr. Stoynev, it's the way he leads me, not Mr. Lazarov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u14	...who don't know exactly what's going on in villages and small settlements. Because there people live in everyday thefts, daily harassment, have a sense of impunity for these criminals, and that is why it is the Law that needs to be changed, and that is why we insist on the Parliamentary Group! The fact that you don't know about people's problems is entirely your problem. But even for 10 leva. Yes, even for 15 leva. Yeah. This guy, if he keeps going, he needs to go to jail. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u15	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's nice to have the committee review the bill before they're in the room. So we follow the rules and is therefore not included in the Programme. Come in for a personal explanation, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The parallel world is in your virtuality. Come on, gather around. You said you were gathering some advice. You're inviting lawyers. Some of these lawyers directly said and pronounced for this bill. I don't know, there's a ghost in this room, the ghost of populism. You live in the unreal world. You live in the world of populism, in the world of fairs, in the world of circuses! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u17	Messages. Laws and draft decisions entered into force from 20 September 2017 to 26 September 2017. On 20 September 2017, a Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the Agricultural Support Act was adopted, an importer was the People's Representative Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food and to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Again on 20 September 2017, he entered the National Assembly's Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Settlement of the Rights of Citizens with Multiannual Housing Savings Deposits. The people's representative Alexander Siddi and Yordan Yordanov, Christian Mitev, are importing. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance as the lead, as well as to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 21 September 2017, a Law amending the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land was adopted. Importer is the national representative Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to a leading Committee on Agriculture and Food, as well as to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On the same date there was a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Physical Education and Sports, with an importer of the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. On the same date there was a Bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. Once again an importer is the national representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights has been allocated to a committee. On 21 September 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Settlement of Citizens' Rights with Multi-annual Housing Savings Deposits was adopted. The representatives of the National Assembly are Anton Kutev, Sergei Kichikov and Gergana Stefanova. It has been allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 26 September 2017, a Food Bill was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It's about to be distributed. On 25 September 2017, entry No 702-00-41 in the National Assembly received a Report on the implementation of the Plan for preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018 on 15 September 2017. It was adopted by Decision No 537 of the Council of Ministers of 2017. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was submitted to the parliamentary groups and all the Standing Committees. The material is published on the website of the Government on the Internet and is available to the MPs and the Library of the National Assembly. In the implementation of the Plan for bilateral cooperation between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of National Defence of Romania for 2017, in the period 25 September, 6 October 2017 will be held jointly Bulgarian-Romanian exercises - Blubridge 2017, which will participate, first, forces and funds from the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria and, second, forces and funds from the Air Force of Romania. The notification was received on 21 September 2017, with the exception of: No 703-09-34 and granted to the Defence Committee. We move on to a vote on: REPORT ON THE SITUATION OF THE ARGUED AND ARGUED FORCES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2016 The debates were held on Thursday. All we have to do is vote. Once again, I introduce you to the draft Decision that we should vote on. "Project" DECISION adopting the Defence and Armed Forces Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, HAS DECIDED Adopts the Defence and Armed Forces Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016 Please vote. The vote is 189 MPs: 106, against 61, abstention 22. The report on the state of defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, with No 702-00-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 August 2017, was adopted. Someone who hasn't taken any part in the matter, order a negative vote. This is the People's Representative Spas Panchev. You have the floor, dear Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues! Allow me first to express my condolences to the soldier who suffered yesterday, committed suicide at the school shootings near the town. Plum. I have asked under the Rules of Procedure for a negative vote in order to express my opinion on the report. In recent years, honourable Members, the serious defence problem, the Bulgarian Army, is the failure to finance the sector. The main problem is that there is not enough money, and that is why the Bulgarian army is not well motivated and the personnel, unfortunately, is not well prepared, because the salaries are one of the lowest salaries in the administration in our country and this inevitably leads to the other main problem. Twenty percent, my fellow Members, is a serious sub-completion, and there are families of troops in which this sub-completion reaches 40 percent and more percent in some of the divisions. The money, honourable colleagues, is also at the heart of combat training, which gives us the opportunity to have well-trained and trained servicemen. In recent years, money has not been enough for the realization of investment projects that are laid down in the programmes of all governments since 2010. ..and the purchase of the new fighters, and the patrol ships for the Navy, and the armored fighting equipment and special equipment for the Land Troops. Without modernization of the Bulgarian Army, without support of the Bulgarian Army, we cannot expect a good performance of the tasks of the Bulgarian servicemen. The support funds I am graduating from Mr. Chairman within 2%, as we have assumed as a NATO member, must be achieved in order to have enough and capable army, to have a new technique to carry out those obligations that are expected of us as a collective member of NATO.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u19	Thank you, Mr. Panchev...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u20	And once again, by graduating, there are none of the generals from the leadership of the Bulgarian Army again. I'm not talking about the Minister's presence. Let's go back to that practice. You know, colleagues, that on the second floor there is a special place for the leadership of the Bulgarian army.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u21	Mr. Panchev, your time is long gone!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u22	Let us give them the opportunity to attend and when we discuss these issues, the leadership of the army to be here. Thank you. I'm sorry. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. The army leadership sits on Thursday until 3.30 p.m. when the MPs were only members of the Defence Committee. Let them confirm that the leadership of the army and Minister Karakachanov was here, and the Chief of Defense was also in the Chamber. Moving on to: On 22 June 2017, adopted on the first vote on 6 July 2017, the Second VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE RECEIVED AND ARGUED POWERS OF BULGARIA, No 754-01-30, submitted by the National Representative Konstantin Popov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 22 June 2017, adopted on the first vote on 6 July 2017. A report from the Commission, which will be presented to you by its President, the People's Representative Konstantin Popov. You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Law on the Robbery and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u25	We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. Please vote. 158 MPs voted: 129, against 3, abstention 26. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u26	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Article 79 is amended as follows: Art. 79. (1) The Permanent Secretary of Defence shall be the highest civil servant in the Ministry of Defence. (2) A civil servant shall be appointed as permanent secretary of defence who shall: 1. has professional experience not less than 8 years and a fourth senior rank as a civil servant; 2. has held a management position in the state administration not less than three years, of which not less than one year in the Ministry of Defence; 3. has received a higher annual assessment of the performance of the post in the annual evaluation in the year preceding the selection compared to the other candidates and has expired the one-year period for testing. (3) The Permanent Secretary of Defence shall be appointed by the Minister of Defence, agreed with the Prime Minister, after selection for a period of 4 years, which shall expire before acquisition by the employee of the right to retirement and age pension. (4) The order of selection shall be determined by order of the Minister of Defence. (5) The selection of candidates shall be carried out by a Commission composed of at least three members, with the Chair of the Deputy Minister of Defence. The Commission shall complete its work with a report to the Minister of Defence with a reasoned proposal. Upon validation of the Commission's report, the Minister of Defence shall send the proposal to appoint a permanent Secretary of Defence for coordination by the Prime Minister. (6) The Permanent Secretary of Defence shall have all the rights of service. (7) The Law on the Civil Service Officer shall apply to outstanding cases with regard to the status of the Permanent Secretary of Defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote § 1 on the Commission report. Vote 152 MPs: 110 against 32, abstention 10. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, Deputy Minister Atanas Zaprianov is here, has arrived. Please allow him into the courtroom.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u29	Please vote on the proposal for admission in the Chamber of Deputy Minister Zaprianov. Vote 155 MPs: 151 against 1, abstention 3. Invite Deputy Minister Zaprianov to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u30	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u31	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 2 on the Commission report. Vote 157 MPs: 111, against 41, abstention 5. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u32	According to § 3 there is a proposal of the MPs Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev, Hristo Georgiev Gajev, Georgi Tenev Stankov, Plamen Ivanov Manushev, Anton Dinev Todorov and Zapreyan Vassilev Yankov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva, Emil Marinov Hristov, Plamen Dulchev Nunev, Milen Vassilev Mihov and Boris Vangelov Borisov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall not support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by The officers, after being awarded a higher military title by decree of the President of the Republic, shall be presented to the Defence Committee of the National Assembly by the Minister of Defence or appointed by him Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u33	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 3 on the Commission report. They voted 147 MPs: 106, against 34, abstention 7. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against this text in the Law, as you know that our position has been consistent. In the debate at first reading, we have expressed an opinion that we think it is unacceptable for us to get used to, the presentation of the senior officer's staff to the Commission in the National Assembly, even more with a particular text in the Law. Colleagues of the ruling majority, I think you agreed that the Bulgarian officer should be respected and his dignity should be safeguarded, including by you. There is no problem in having a meeting of the senior officers and the Commission together with the minister. But writing this text in the Law already speaks about your attitude towards the Bulgarian officer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Is there? There are no other negative votes. Here you are, Mr. Popov, for paragraph four.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u36	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u37	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 4 on the Commission report. Vote 155 MPs: 137, against 10, abstention 8. Paragraph 4 has been adopted, and thus the Law of the Second Voting. Our next item is the vote on: THE COUNTERPARTY FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE COMMERCIAL CORRECTION CODE. A report from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the report will introduce us to the Chairman of the Transport Committee, People's Representative Halil Letifov. You have the floor, dear Mr. Letifov. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u38	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, a procedure. I am proposing on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for Allowance in the Hall of Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport and Captain Zhivko Petrov Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u39	Please vote on the procedure for admission. Colleagues, I see there's movement in the hall. Have you all been able to vote? They voted 123 MPs: 121, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Go on, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u40	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 702-01-12, introduced by the Council of Ministers on 9 August 2017. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 13 September 2017, a Bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping was discussed, No 702-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 August 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Ms. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Zhivko Petrov, Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration, and Mrs. Petya Malakova, Head of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The bill was presented by Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova. The Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping introduces part of the requirements of Council Directive 2014/112/EU of 19 December 2014 implementing the European Agreement on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in the internal water transport sector concluded by the European Union for river navigation, the European Organisation of River Carriers and the European Federation of Transport Workers. The importers claimed that in the Bulgarian legislation the labor relations of the crew members of a ship flying the Bulgarian flag and of the owner of the ship are regulated in art. 88b of the Code of Commercial Shipping (KTC) and in the Ordinance on Labour and Directly Related Relations between the crew members of the vessel and the vessel owner. The general rules of the Labour Code, the Law on Health and Safety at Work and the regulations on their application are laid down for the issues not settled in these two acts. Another part of the texts in the Bill are intended to comply fully with the provisions of the KTC in force with the current editorials of acts of the secondary law of the European Union and acts of international law to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a party. The requirements of those acts have been fully introduced into the national legal system by other laws and regulations, but the relevant provisions of the KTC have remained unchanged. The bill also lays down a competent national authority to notify organisations that will assess the compliance of marine vessel equipment with the requirements of the Directive. The functions of a national notifying authority are proposed to be carried out by the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration. The terms and conditions for such notification are detailed in Regulation No 54 of 2016 on the technical requirements and assessment of the conformity of the equipment of maritime vessels. The proposed changes in art. 79 of the KTC comply with the findings of incomplete implementation in Bulgarian legislation of the requirements of Directive 2009/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 laying down the basic principles governing the investigation of accidents in the maritime transport sector and amending Council Directive 1999/35/EC and Directive 2002/59/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Bill also introduces specific requirements regarding vocational education and training and higher education in maritime and river specialities. These are requirements concerning the content of study plans and programs, the minimum number of hours in different study subjects and modules, the material and technical basis for conducting the training, including of practical training, and requirements for lecturers in special disciplines, which are in addition to the general requirements established by the Law on Vocational Education and Training and the Law on Higher Education respectively. Another group of changes removes the existing obstacle to register a certain category of ships actually flying the Bulgarian flag in the Register of ships flying the Bulgarian flag. Provisions are also proposed to introduce a light form of the transfer contract on a serially manufactured vessel for sport, tourism and entertainment by the manufacturer or his distributor of the first acquirer. The bill also establishes a legal delegation for the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications to adopt regulations laying down the rules for the operation of inland waterway ships without crew during navigation, during the stay of an external anchor stand, when entering, arrival and stay in the aquatory of ports, as well as in carrying out loading and unloading operations, as well as the conditions and procedures for carrying out technical supervision activities in the design, construction, operation and repair of ships for which they are not required to hold a class, when installing, maintaining and repairing the electrical navigation, rescue and fire equipment, as well as for empowering the persons who carry out them, and for withdrawing the powers provided. In support of the Commission's bill, an opinion was also received from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, which was presented by Mrs Petya Malakova, Head of Department of the Ministry. After the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications unanimously proposed to the National Assembly that a bill for amendment and supplement to the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 702-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 August 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Following is the report by the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. You're welcome, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Four months ago, GERB and the United Patriarchs, you formed a government that would work in the name of transparency, stability of Bulgaria, fighting corruption and increasing incomes. At that time, we from BSP for Bulgaria have stated that this is an unprincipled union for power, positions and money, not for policy making. Only four months later, these words were confirmed from within by the government. It's a statement on behalf of a group. Vice-Prime Minister Simeonov said: "We haven't had a dialogue with Borisov lately. "And more, I quote: "They are placed in senior positions on purely party considerations, guerrilla considerations. For example, they put a guy who was the head of the water service in Sandanski, picked him up there and made him the head of the water service. The man has four demands on the Municipal Council to be dismissed from this position, with a number of completed preliminary proceedings. Shall I tell you why it's complicated? He asks Valeri Simeonov and answers: Because there is a water cycle of a very high value, because this money must be used up. Or you could put a guy with a pretty dubious biography in a town for the head of the RIEW, pushing the minister for this job for purely party reasons. The minister, however, does not want to and turns out to be party pressure and is told: "If you don't put this person on, we will withdraw the trust and get you out of the way as Minister. Hey to such stupid, primitive-municipal trials are subjected to one part of the ministers. said Deputy Prime Minister in the government, hey to such outrage! By whom are the ministers put under pressure, and who makes these appointments? Apparently, the other coalition partner is GERB! Before it came to these severe revelations in the government, you had contradictions in the coalition and on corruption. Again, your coalition partner said: "The Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova and her subordinate Ministry are hiding information from me about concessions on the Black Sea coast, which are held by sign names from groups and competitions are won by questionable documentation. Corruption in tourism is on the high levels of power. " he said and promised to take the case to the prosecutor's office. Whose minister is Mrs. Angelkova? The other coalition partner GERB. Your coalition partner also fired the director of the National Building Control Directorate on Facebook with the following motives: And the Minister of GERB defended this valuable shot and said: "She is a good professional and is still working. When you throw each other in the coalition with accusations of corruption, GERB introduces anti-corruption law and says it will end this vicious phenomenon! I'm leaving him with no comment! Conflicts are noted in the coalition and on another topic of income. Your coalition partner has announced that the class is out of service time, which reduces income and does not increase, as you promised! [[GERB's line.]] GERB initially supported it, but then you denied it. Deputy Minister of the Interior says the salaries of the police from next year will increase by 15 percent and 10 minutes later the Minister of the Interior says there is no such thing! The government together with the coalition partners submitted a National Security Report, in which they claim that Russia is a danger to Bulgaria. One coalition partner in parliament says this is nonsense. Minister of Economy, who I think is appointed or proposed by the patriots, is struggling with an arms firm, bringing signals to the prosecution. At the same time, the deputy prime minister of the patriots said: "Without realizing it, I did my work and invited Mr. Gergov to my office. "! And what are you whispering about in your chambers with arms dealers that one minister is chasing them and the deputy prime minister invites them to coffee in his office?! And without realizing it, in the name of transparency, of course, something is happening there! This is all stated by Deputy Prime Minister in the government of Boyko Borisov. And he locks the door: If we keep driving it like this, we won't do anything! If we keep putting ladybugs in all positions, we cannot expect any serious changes. What's going on, ladies and gentlemen, in the government of Boyko Borisov 3 you owe answers! Check out the National Security Report. [[GERB's line.]] Our country faces huge challenges: demographic disaster, poor health care, school dropouts, poverty, incomes, and crime in your security report! [[GERB's line.]] And instead of deciding that, you deal with ladybugs, post office and corruption charges. To finally come the key, the cult: the proportion of participation in the government is very rudely violated. Purely political posts, which we have agreed in a political agreement with GERB. Dear rulers, when and where did you sign this political agreement? You owe me some answers! There is an agreement that is visible to society.. Your management program. Obviously you have a hidden political agreement on proportions in power.. says Valeri Simeonov. You owe answers because of the transparency of the opposition, of your coalition partners and of society! I know what you're going to say. Now you will say: Plamen Oresharski, the triple coalition and to Todor Zhivkov and to Khan Asparuh, that he has passed the Danube, are responsible for corruption and what is happening today in the government. [[GERB's line.]] Save it! We know that. Give answers to what you are doing at the Presidency's doorstep, on the threshold of these challenges that I am talking about, which of these problems are you solving?! We from the BSP for Bulgaria have announced our actions against the parallel state at all levels. Often, people tell us: " Give us examples of the parallel state. " Here's the brightest example of a parallel state at the highest level in the country. One political agreement on policies for the public and another secret, for proportions in power, in recognition of the deputy prime minister of power! This is you, the brightest example of a parallel state! And you have two ways out of this situation, or you can either come out and say that your deputy prime minister is lying, or you can say he's right, and you can publish the political agreement, which is the essence of your coalition, a quadruple coalition for proportions in power! [[Loud applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u43	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova! On behalf of the parliamentary group Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will not talk about the past, because each one has made his own conclusion when he went to exercise his constitutional right to vote. I will say just a few facts about the results of today's government: reducing cigarette smuggling to 7%, these are levels that I think should be encouraged for the political will, for the policy that make the relevant offices. I would also like to say that October 1st is the International Day of Elderly People. Let us treat them with respect and truly wish them longevity. The government will make maximum efforts to actually be able, with the steps that today's government is making, to increase the minimum pension and, in this economic growth, to look for an update of pensions in the coming years of our management mandate. I can only say that from 1 October the minimum pension becomes 200 leva. Yes, indeed it is small, but it is still a very clear political sign of what we are doing. This supplement will be obtained from 820 thousand. They're retired. I am convinced that this should be assessed on the basis of the political efforts we are doing today and everything the government is doing in the field of education. We know that from next year more than 330 million will be allocated to the country's budget. lv. than until now, because we have to take the increase that was made on September 1st this year. I would also like to share with you that for the first time in the Programme, 624 million will be allocated to education infrastructure. lv. This will indeed be able to improve conditions for adolescents so that we can actually achieve energy efficiency in this environment for students in which parents can be much more relaxed. Of course, in all this talk, I am convinced that the more meaningful debate should be held in relation to the forthcoming draft budget, which will be submitted to the Bulgarian Parliament. Together, all MPs can contribute to the optimization and allocation of more funds and to sectoral policies that today need additional funding. I am convinced that the government will take its responsibility very seriously to the anxiety it has in the European Union on the topic of security and I am convinced that more means of defence and security will be found in the draft budget. Dear colleagues of BSP, I am convinced that you will continue to speak in this tone. Even yesterday, when there was a referendum in which the anti-corruption legislation to be adopted by the Bulgarian Parliament should be discussed, we saw that they took advantage of the personal attacks. You started this topic in yesterday's debate thanks to your representative Anton Kutev. This is his policy, this is his profile, which is known to the entire Bulgarian public in recent years. Perhaps in some of the speeches, both I and fellow Members of the National Assembly must have been rude, but the most important thing is to be able to change and move for the better. We, at least what we know, is that Anton Kutev cannot change and cannot be changed, [[Applause from GERB]] But we don't make the effort to re-educate anyone. I assure you that you will not hear from me personal attacks because I have learned lessons and I know that this is not good for politics or for those who vote for us. What I'm asking you: let us, when we leave this parliamentary tribune, not go into interpretations of who has said what. The responsibility that the government bears today, the responsibility that the parliamentary majority bears, can be protected by any choice that we stand for. Today let us note that our country has an economic growth of 3.6% in the first half of the year, let us note that what is expected by the end of the year is that this economic growth will be 3.9. I think even your most pessimistic predictions give more positivism. Today, our country needs constructive dialogue, because we have a Presidency ahead of us. For all events that are planned to be held by the Bulgarian Parliament, let us be at least united in some common goals that we believe each one defends and protects. It is your right to speak in a way in which you judge and believe that you can win voters, but the elections have passed and we are at the beginning of a stable management mandate, which relies on transparency, which relies on this efficiency, which will actually give more value for the development of the regions. I think that's where we should focus our attention, talk about this topic, not about what Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov said. I can tell you that we are having permanent meetings, and yesterday we have made the Political Council and indeed we have also considered the weaknesses that have been admitted in the last few weeks. There are no faultless people, it is important that when we sit at the same table, we behave responsibly and that we can make the right political decisions that are in the interests of society, Bulgaria and the strong European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. We are moving on to the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here's a personal explanation. I hope the tone will be constructive, as Mr. Tsvetanov bet.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u46	Of course it's gonna be a contructive tone, it can't be anyone else. Mr. Tsvetanov! Usually lately, and especially yesterday, I tried to talk about politics. Another question is that we talked about policies and corruption, in connection with which some people associate your name, I don't know why?! If I wanted to speak in person, I would have spoken differently. Personally, I would say that you several times, thanks to your actions, because you say: "You do not treat yourself personally, no, thanks to your personal attacks and your personal actions as a minister, the state of Bulgaria has been sentenced several times in Strasbourg by Borislav Gutsanov, by the former Interior Minister, by whomever. The money that has paid the state to these people is more than you yourself have declared for all the properties you have. I mean, if they took all the property you had and returned it to the state, it would be fair. So, if we were to speak in person, I would say this, if we were to speak in person, I would say that this tone was imported by you. Look at your records from five or six years ago, see what you've said about a bunch of people. In what way you connected for months and years Pesho Sumista, to which one of our former MPs had issued him a pass as head of the Rugby Federation, and you were all the time connecting me and my party with Pesho Sumista. You personally! Was it constructive that I couldn't remember? I suggest you return the money to the state because you have so much money. To return the money to the state for which she was convicted and which she paid for your personal actions. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u47	Personal explanation, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to say to you that I am not ashamed of what I have done as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior because of public approval. [[Applause from GERB]] For the security system, it was over 50%. Since you are referring to Pesho Sumista, just to tell you that he is currently serving a sentence for serious crimes and that a ruling of the Supreme Court of Cassation of the last instance is also expected for the murders that have been documented by this criminal group. Dear Mr. People's Representative, when spoken in this way and the insult is sought, let us still give what is due for what all professionals in the Ministry of Interior and the team with which I worked, because both the kidnappings and the killers and all that was related to the last sentence, which came out in Italy at the last instance and for Evelyn Banev. Do you know how much risk employees have taken working on these developments? Do you know how threatened the lives of all those colleagues who worked on these developments have been? And why wasn't it done in a previous period, make your own conclusions about what you are asking today and asking as a question from this parliamentary tribune. We are proud of what we have done in the security sector in the period 2009 - 2012, and I am convinced that this to this day is appreciated by all our international partners and not by accident and to this day I am invited to similar forums to talk about how we have actually achieved this effectiveness in the fight against crime. Finally, I will let you read the 2012 European Commission Report on the tangible progress of our country and that the next monitoring report should be in a year and a half and not as for Romania then [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u49	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov! We continue with the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The report will read Mrs. Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u50	Honourable Chairman, respectable colleagues! ♪ I can't believe As regards the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 702-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 August 2017. At its regular meeting on 13 September 2017, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 702-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and Capt. Mr. Zhivko Petrov, Director of the Maritime Administration Executive Agency of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. This bill aims to synchronise Bulgarian legislation with the requirements of Council Directive 2014/112/EU of 19 December 2014 implementing the European Agreement on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in the internal water transport sector concluded by the European Union for river navigation (EBU), the European Organisation of River Carriers (ESO) and the European Transport Workers Federation (ETF). This should be achieved by amending some of the norms in the Code of Commercial Shipping (KTC) concerning the relations between the crew members of a ship flying the Bulgarian flag and the vessel owner. In this regard, standards relating to the organisation of working time and health and safety conditions on board the ship shall be introduced, taking into account the specifics of the so-called mobile workers.) floating on the inland waterways of Europe. These standards include maximum working hours for a period of 12 months, average working hours for one working week, maximum working day time, distribution of the day-to-day and the week-to-week rest, as well as day-time breaks. The full transposition of Directive 2014/112/EU should be carried out with the adoption of amendments and additions to the Regulation on labour relations and directly related relations between crew members of the vessel and the vessel owner. In addition, this Bill aims to fully harmonise the Code of Commercial Shipping (KTC) with acts of EU secondary law and acts of international law to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country. Among the many such acts is Directive 2014/90/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on marine equipment and repealing Council Directive 96/98/EC, the rules of which have been introduced in the Bulgarian legislation by Decree No 54 of 2016 on the technical requirements and the assessment of the conformity of the equipment of marine vessels. The bill also proposes a number of amendments to the Code of Commercial Shipping (KTC) to fully introduce in Bulgarian legislation the requirements of Directive 2009/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 laying down the basic principles governing the investigation of accidents in the maritime transport sector and amending Council Directive 1999/35/EC and Directive 2002/59/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. It is currently introduced in the Bulgarian legislation by Decree No 23 of 2011 on reporting and investigation of accidents in marine spaces. With regard to its full transposition, the bill proposes the inclusion of points in the Additional Provisions of the Code of Commercial Shipping (KTC) which define concepts such as............................................................................................ Attention shall also be paid to distinguishing the rules and bodies related to the investigation of inland waterway accidents against those applicable to marine accidents and incidents. The draft Law also provides for synchronization with the provisions of Directive 2009/16/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 on port State control transposed into Bulgarian legislation by Ordinance No 12 of 2010 on checks under port State control. For this purpose, the Code of Commercial Shipping shall be subject to a requirement to carry out a number of checks under state environmental control of shipping within one calendar year, while establishing clear procedural rules for carrying out controls in respect of each parameter. Last but not least, it should be borne in mind that on 22 December 2016, the bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping was adopted by the 43rd National Assembly at first reading. The procedure for examining and adopting the Draft Law was not completed due to the dissolution of the legislative body on 27 January 2017. Meanwhile, by Letter C(20017) 300/3 of 24 January 2017. The European Commission has officially notified the Republic of Bulgaria that by decision of the same date it has initiated infringement proceedings under Article 2017/0022. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the fact that the Republic of Bulgaria has not implemented the requirements of Council Directive 2014/112/EU of 19 December 2014. Following the submission of the reasons, no comments and questions followed. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed by 9 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 702-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 August 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u51	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. A report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u52	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 702-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 August 2017. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 7 September 2017 examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing commercial shipping. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Captain Zhivko Petrov, Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration, Mrs. Sultanka Petrova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Veliko Zanchev, in his part relating to the employment rights of crew members and service personnel. After him, Captain Zhivko Petrov joined the bill. The main objective of the proposed amendment and supplement to the Code of Commercial Shipping is to introduce part of the requirements of Council Directive 2014/112/EU of 19 December 2014 in the Bulgarian legislation, according to the draft Law. These are the requirements that deviate from the legal provisions currently in force in the country concerning labour and directly related relations between the crew members of a ship flying under the Bulgarian flag and the vessel owner. In our legislation, the labour relations of the crew members of a ship flying a Bulgarian flag and the owner of the ship are regulated in art. 88b of the Code of Commercial Shipping and in the Ordinance on Labour and Directly Related Relations between the crew members of the vessel and the vessel owner. The general rules of the Labour Code, the Law on Health and Safety at Work and the regulations on their application are laid down for the issues not settled in these two acts. In 2013 and early 2014, changes were made in order to comply with the requirements of the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006 of the International Labour Organisation. As a result of these changes, the rules laid down in the Maritime Labour Convention 2006 on the organisation of the working time of seafarers working on board ships also apply to seafarers operating on ships flying a Bulgarian flag on the inland waterways of Europe. Council Directive 2014/112/EU of 19 December 2014 takes into account the specific conditions of work and life on board inland waterway vessels. It establishes minimum standards with regard to the organisation of working time and health and safety conditions on board the ship of so-called mobile workers. These minimum standards are: the maximum working time for the adopted reference period of 12 months; the average working time for 1 working week; the maximum working day duration; the minimum duration of the interday and interweekly rest; the distribution of daily rest periods. These standards show some differences compared to those laid down in Bulgarian legislation. In addition, unlike the current national rules under which all persons working on board as part of the ship's command are members of the crew, the European Agreement on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in the inland waterway sector also deals with another category of personnel on board. This category of personnel is only characteristic of passenger ships sailing on inland waterways and includes valeters, cooks and other employees who are not directly involved in the management and operation of the ship as a craft. The bill provides provisions on the status of the master and the members of the ship crew, a new organisation and supplementing the rules governing the labour and directly related relations between the crew members of a ship flying under the Bulgarian flag and the vessel owner. It is also proposed to establish a new norm to establish the legal content of the concept of service staff. Changes are also proposed to apply the current and current legal rules on labour and directly related relations between crew members of the ship and the owner of the vessel which are common, whether a member of the crew of a ship, a crew member of an inland waterway ship or a member of the service staff of a passenger ship floating on inland waterways. § 11 of the Bill proposes the creation of three new provisions in art. Art. 88c, Art. Art. 88 88e. The first of them lays down the specific rules on the employment of crew members of seaships C the second regulation lays down the specific rules on the employment of crew members and on the service staff of inland navigation vessels. The latter reproduces an existing text on the subsidiary applicability of the current Bulgarian labour law. The full implementation of the requirements of Council Directive 2014/112/EU of 19 December 2014 implementing the European Agreement on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in the inland waterway sector should be carried out with the adoption of the necessary amendments and additions to the Ordinance on Labour and Directly Related Relations between the crew members of the ship and the vessel owner. Annex 1 to the Bill is drawn up in which the partial preliminary assessment of the impact of the bill is described. After the presentation of the bill and the vote held with results: 16 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 702-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 August 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u53	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. I'm opening the debate, colleagues. I give the floor for speeches. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u54	Madam President, honourable Members! The matter concerning the Code and the changes being proposed are quite specific. I do not know how carefully our fellow Members listened to the reports of the three committees. I think it is appropriate, since each MP must make an informed decision when supporting or not a bill, literally by several sentences, to fix the main changes proposed by the Ministry of Transport. First of all, the organisation of the working relationship of crews on inland waterway ships is regulated because there is none so far. The mandatory rest of crew members shall be fixed at least 10 hours of rest per day or 77 hours of rest within one week. Naturally, the specifics of river transport are taken into account here, and the captain has the right to postpone part of the crew's rest and therefore compensate. This is laid down in the European Directive, which in turn is adopted on the basis of an Agreement between the European Commission, the European Trade Union of Transport Workers and the Union of River Carriers in the European Union, i.e. the equivalent of the three Member States. Also on the inland river roads in Europe is introduced the so-called concept of service personnel. It is only about passenger ships, because there are such staff, chefs, waiters, valets, who so far in the Bulgarian legislation are aligned as part of the crew, and that is not the case. The second major change is that the amendments to the Code regulate the working rules of the Special Unit of the Ministry of Transport, which aims to investigate accidents and accidents at sea. The main function of this unit is to improve the safety of maritime transport. The scope of the investigation is regulated, namely ships flying the Bulgarian flag, no matter where the incident occurred, or the accidents that occurred within the territorial waters of the Republic of Bulgaria. Military ships, fishing vessels up to 15 meters, yachts and more have been removed from the range. Last but not least, there is a ban on admissions to a port which is part of the territory of the European Union, which must be controlled by the Maritime Administration. That's what I'm gonna do. I think this has made it a little clearer what is being proposed and what we will support in the Code of Commercial Shipping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Any lines to Mr. Tishev's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm calling off the debate, we're going to vote. Please, the Quaestors, invite your colleagues to the Chamber. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 August 2017. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to item four on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVES. Importers are Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 13 September 2017. Mr. Kirilov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u56	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I ask for a procedure to extend the deadline for proposals between first and second readings, as regards the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 702-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers and adopted in the first vote of the plenary on 21 September 2017, by two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u57	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Vote on the procedure so made.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u58	Vote 117 MPs: 94, none, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. We shall continue with the Commission's report. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u59	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Special Intelligence Means Act No 754-01-55, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 13 September 2017. At a meeting held on 20 September 2017, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence tools and the access to data under the Electronic Communications Act discussed a Bill amending and supplementing the Special Intelligence Act, No 754-01-55, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 13 September 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Mr. Dimitar Lazarov, who pointed out that the proposed bill aims to align the status of the President of the State Agency with the status of the heads of the security services by introducing a mandate for the post. The procedure for the appointment of the Heads of State Agency......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This procedural mechanism introduces additional guarantees for the balance of the institutions and consistency between the executive power and the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. The activities of these services are aimed at the protection of both national security and the constitutional order established in the country and in the protection of citizens' personal rights. The heads of the security services authorities shall be bound by restrictions in the number of their mandates. Taking into account the specifics of the work of the State Agency........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The amendments and additions to the proposed Draft are related to the need, on the one hand, to align the status of the heads of the specialized bodies and, on the other, to limit the time for occupying by the same person of the office of The adoption of the Bill is not related to additional financial resources and it meets the public expectations of trust and transparency. After the discussion, the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications with 7 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u60	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members, come in. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, in the Special Intelligence Funds Act, art. 19, the chair of this Agency lacks the practical mandate. In order to align the practice and legislation in this regard with regard to the settlement of public relations and the powers of the various types of agencies, we agree that this legislative gap should be completed, that is to say, the mandate of the President of this Agency should also be introduced. The reasons for this bill are set out, and it is protected, precisely this mandate thesis. We agree with this thesis, but we do not agree with the mandate of this President, whoever he is of this Agency, to be extended another five years. What colleagues have proposed in the State Agency Act in art. 8, para. 1, it is written that: The National Security Agency is headed by a President appointed by decree of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria on a proposal from the Council of Ministers for a period of five years. Here, in this Law, we should carry this same practice. Because the State Agency is much closer to the SANS than to the State Agency. It has a very different feature from the State Agency of Industrial Operations. Therefore, we should transfer the mandate from the SANS Act to this Law to only five years. Dear Members of the National Assembly, a law is made to arrange for a particular type of public relations in principle. It is not done in view of the personality as it is done here in this Law. Therefore, at first reading, we will refrain from supporting this Law, between first and second, we will make proposals on what I have read, basically saying that the State Agency is headed by a President appointed by decree of the President of the Republic, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers for a period of five years. Let the words be cleared for another five years! This is where the pebble is tangled. Five more years. It comes to the conclusion that this change, this Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Special Intelligence means is not made in principle, but is made in view of the individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u62	Thank you, Mr. Popov. You have the floor for lines. Are there any lines to Mr. Popov's statement? I can't see. Any further comments? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! With regard to the proposal for a change in the Law on the SRS concerning the mandate of the President of the State Agency, of course I support my colleague Popov, but I would also like to say something else. Please, when words came out here earlier that our activity should be in the public interest, not individuals or party, corporate, group and whatever they are, we should be good enough to bring it into the proposals as well! What are we witnessing right now? The President of the State Agency of Technical Operations took up this position from 2013 without a decree, i.e. he already has a mandate of four years. If you recognise this mandate as legitimate, under the current Law on the State Agency, it should be proposed that the President sign a decree for one year, as in art. 8, para. 1 is fixed for five years. If you say that these four years do not constitute a mandate, then we should dispute the legitimacy of his signatures on the permits for the use of special intelligence means. In this proposal, we see an honest attempt to concreteize an individual of the office for another five years. And this person is well - known.. the person who is now in office! I have other reservations. At the meeting of the Security Services Control Commission, the report on the activities of the State Agency was not adopted. Notice! One. Secondly, I would now like to say that at tomorrow's meeting, or at the next one, we will submit a proposal to the Commission to hear the President of the National Bureau for Control of the SRS, as he had precisely claims and statements of correctness in the application of special intelligence resources, including from this Agency, including from another Directorate in another agency. If you want to align the mandate with that of the State Intelligence Agency, you should motivate and what is so close the activities of the DATO to that of the DAR, or is it closer to the DANS? Isn't there such a specialized directorate at the DANS? Isn't she dealing with almost the same tasks in the same area as in the DATO? Then why do we want it to be for another five years? I would like to tell you that I support what my colleague Popov said, and we will abstain from this vote for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u64	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. You have the floor for lines. There are no lines. Statements? Mr. Lazarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman! In the Commission, the bill was adopted unanimously, including by colleagues from all the parliamentary groups who attended. Of course, it is their right to make proposals between first and second readings. I would like to recall, however, that the President of the DATO was appointed on a proposal from the Council of Ministers by decree of 2013, when the Law was amended and the State Agency was established. I will not embark on the boundaries of constitutionalism whether a year's decree to complete the term of office can be issued, or a year's decree to complete the term of office cannot be issued, whether the existing case may count as a term of office, since the current bill has not provided for a term of five years. The law passed without doubt.. we speak not politically, we speak technically, in terms of the last Member's speeches. Yes, they are right to ask for a hearing of the Commission, but this is a slightly different subject. We're not debating it here, because it's out of this bill. I would like to remind you that the heads of the State Agency of Intelligence, the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency of Military Information, also have mandates, this was 2015 with the laws that we have adopted here to regulate these services also have a mandate, but not more than five years! They're five years old, but not more than five more years! [[Noise and lines.]] With regard to the mandate of the SANS, this is another topic. That's where we'll argue. Make your proposals, we will examine them in the Commission, of course, professionally, as our Commission has worked.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u66	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Are there any lines to Mr. Lazarov's statement? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Lazarov! You've put the facts well, but you've missed some small details, and it's nice to really find out what's going on. You are right that the current Director of the Agency was appointed in 2013, but you also miss the fact that August his term of office was suspended and the Council of Ministers made a new proposal to begin a new mandate by missing the detail that Mr. Plevneliev, who was then president, broadcast by your party for presidential candidate, did not issue a decree on the appointment of the gentleman who is currently in charge of the Agency. To date, we rather need an explanation as to why it is written that he is given another long five-year term? We didn't feel you responding to our feeling that this change is made precisely by intuito persone. I do not dispute the qualities of Mr. Kitov, who is currently, but with us remains the unpleasant feeling that something is being done behind the scenes that you are trying to impose on us a change that is somehow detrimental to society and to those who, for some reason, could also be harmed by an incorrect application of the Special Intelligence Act. You alone, as the head of this Commission, have faced not one or two such cases. It is good for you to explain to us why it is at this very moment that this thing is being done and you did not do it last year, the year before the Council of Ministers interrupted the mandate and proposed and re-appointed it. Why is this change being made, and why is it proposed to extend the term of office by another five years? Is this term whole, isn't it? You do not give any explanation to these interpretations, and these are the main reasons why we refrain. You see, there remains one unpleasant feeling that something is being done wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u68	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other lines to Mr. Lazarov's statement? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u69	Mr. Chairman, I don't know if my fellow Members have made it clear when we spoke, but I would like to say about the other colleagues. Dear colleagues, 2013 with the amendments to the Special Intelligence Fund Act, when the State Agency was established, a Directorate was removed from the Ministry of Interior and an independent agency was established, since then until the submission of this Bill there was no mandate, years, number. Yes, this bill has been voted by you, it has been passed by you, honourable Members, do not speak intuito persona. But he just didn't have a mandate! Read what is written in the first paragraph of the Bill: for no more than five years. In the present, the Special and Intelligence Funds Act is not amended, it does not provide for a limitation in the years of five, ten, fifteen, twenty. So these statements are manipulative that you see this being done intuito persone. The order is the same: a proposal of the Council of Ministers, a decree of the President.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u70	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Any other statements on the proposed bill? I won't. Please invite the Quaestors to the House as the composition is quite reduced and the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats. We move on to the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Intelligence, No 754-01-55, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 13 September 2017. They voted 145 MPs: for 104, against none, abstentioned 41. The bill was passed in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: REPORT OF THE INTERVIEW COMMISSION ON EXPORT CONTROL AND INDISTINCT DISTRIBUTION OF THE ARMY FOR MACHINE DESTRUCTION TO THE MINISTER OF THE ECONOMIC FOR 2016 IMPORTER MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF 29 AUGUST 2017 Please present the Report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! "COMMODITY" on the Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for 2016, No 702-00-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 13 September 2017 discussed and discussed the Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for 2016. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Economy: Lachezar Borisov Deputy Minister, Petya Tsenova Head of Department at the Department of Internationally Controlled Trade and Security and Maya Stoilova Chief Expert at the Directorate of Internationally Controlled Trade and Security The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Borisov. The report presents the objectives and scope of the national system for export control and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction of the Republic of Bulgaria, including regulations, control bodies and lists of controlled defence-related products and dual-use items. According to the first main defence-related product (SPO), in 2016 the Interdepartmental Commission issued a total of 1010 authorisations. The Report does not include information on authorisations/certificates for temporary and reverse exports/transfers for repair, demonstrations and others. The Interdepartmental Commission has issued 595 authorisations/export and transfer certificates to the CPC from the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The total value of the authorisations granted is 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that In 2016, exports and transfers of SSR to total amount of 1 billion were made. 15 million. Euros. 415 import and transfer permits/report certificates were issued on the territory of the country of the CPC for a total value of 524 million. Euros. The total value of the import and transfer on the territory of the country is EUR 164 million. For the period for the issue of 190 international certificates for imports of CPCs. In 2016, the Interdepartmental Commission issued 73 authorisations for transit and transport of CPCs and refused the issue of six export authorisations, one import authorisation and two authorisation for transit of CPCs. According to the second main department of dual-use items and technologies, the Minister of Economy issued 19 certificates for registration of exports and transfers of dual-use items and 4 certificates of right to carry out brokerage activities with them, for which a public register is maintained. In 2016, exports and transfers of nearly 14 million total value were made within this group of products. Euros. In 2016, 22 individual export authorisations were granted for a total of 24 million. EUR, four of which have not been exported. The total amount of exports made under individual authorisations is more than 12 million. Euros. In 2016, no applications for transfer authorisations for dual-use items and technology were submitted to the Interdepartmental Commission. 28 import certificates over 73 million were issued. EUR, with the total value of the imports being made at nearly 77 million. EUR, including 6 certificates from 2015 The interagency commission in 2016 did not issue any refusals on applications for export and transfer and no registration of imports of dual-use items and technologies was refused. After a vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes the National Assembly to take the following DECISION According to the Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for 2016. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 70, para. 2 of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products and Technologies HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Shevked. You have the floor for speeches on this report. Here you are, fellow Members. Mr. Boychev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Interdepartmental Commission report, of course, contains information on the policy that our country carries out in fulfilling all the international commitments that we have in the export control of defence products and dual-use products. Here, of course, there should also be talk of protecting national security, but my view will be in defence of the country's economic interests. The report shows that in 2016 the Bulgarian country implemented exports and transfers of defence-related products for 1 billion. 15 million. Euros. At the same time, in recent months, we have witnessed tensions, to say it, in the country's arms industry. Multiple protests related to various actions taken by the state authorities, which are related to the control of the country's arms industry. I would like to make it clear that the BSP parliamentary group will closely monitor the actions of the Bulgarian government in the arms industry. We will be careful to ensure that the Law is applied with the same arsin for everyone. It is clear that checks are currently being carried out on all companies in the country's arms industry. We will expect the result of these checks. I would like to say that today, at our insistence, the Minister of Economy will be heard in the Commission this afternoon on this particular subject. We are worried about what is happening in the Bulgarian arms industry and we want someone to take very clear responsibility for what direction it will be developed in. We believe that this threshold of 1 billion. 15 million. EUR for 2016, given the global konncture, should be increased next year and this can only be done if there is an adequate government policy to support the Bulgarian arms producers in their exports. This will be the focus of the parliamentary group. As a finding and information we supported the report, there is no other way, but we will monitor everything that is happening in the arms industry of Bulgaria very carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u74	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Are there any lines to Mr. Boychev's statement? There are no lines. Are there any other comments on the report so proposed? I won't. Before I announce the voting procedure, I would like to ask the MPs to welcome the guests from Plovdiv who are in the plenary. [[Applause.]] We will proceed with the voting procedure. I propose that the MPs approve the report and the proposed solution. Please have the MPs take their seats. Please vote. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Do you have a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I propose a seven-day extension procedure for the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-27.u76	Thank you. Honourable Members of Parliament, I shall put the motion to the vote. Vote 131 MPs: 129, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. With this vote and this item, we have concluded the agenda for today. The next National Assembly meeting is tomorrow at 9:00. I'm calling the meeting adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
