ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] There is a decision by the Central Election Commission on the declaration of Evgeni Genchev Budinov as MP from the Twenty-Fiveth Election Region of Sofia, as well as Ivan Stefanov Valkov, as MP from the Second Election Region of Burgas. In connection with these decisions, please invite Mr. Budinov and Mr. Valkov to take an oath. [[Everyone's up. Mr. Budinov and Mr. Valkov enter the Chamber.]] Please repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]] Message: The Vice-President of Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria shall inform the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch of military personnel from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with weapons, equipment and equipment to participate in the Multinational Teaching of the Special Forces of the Balkan Countries in the Republic of Romania for the period from 15 October 2017 to 22 October 2017. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 12 October 2017 by the Commission. No 703-09-37 and granted to the Defence Committee. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I shall make a procedure for the displacement of the weekly programme, as adopted in accordance with art. 50, para. 3 The Law on Youth to Become a T. 1 for today, respectively, to rearrange the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u4	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u5	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, I take back my opinion on the proposal of my colleague Popov, as this bill has not been discussed by the Legal Commission. The legal committee was included in the distribution. After colleagues raised the question, we reviewed why this bill was also allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Colleagues, it's not for the youth. It's for real estate. [[Single applause at GERB.]] In this situation, it is appropriate, since there are so many consequences related to the provision of so-called objects to youth organisations, voluntary organisations, by the state, municipalities and all entities, to make a precise property analysis. I believe that in view of the minimum weight of the youth theme in this bill, it should be passed in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u6	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. In fact, the proposal is to include a point, not a shifting program. [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] This was a reverse opinion on the procedure, not on behalf of a parliamentary group. The proposal is to include a point, not a shift. [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] If you read your program, you'll see that there are only two points on Friday. Let's not get into any arguments! [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] You propose the first point to be what Mr. Philip Popov proposed, not for the shift of the program, as there is no point in today's programme for the Bill you are talking about. You want to be the first item in today's agenda. That's the offer. Please vote. They voted 176 MPs: for 80, against 77, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u7	Mr President, honourable Members, in connection with a proposal by the Conference of Presidents to hold an extraordinary plenary session, I propose that it be adopted on the basis of art. 48, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: The National Assembly shall hold an extraordinary plenary session on 17 October 2017, Tuesday, at 14:00 on the following agenda: Point singular: Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code (Civil Procedure Code) - General project drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 7 July 2017 by importers: Cornelia Ninova and Members of the National Assembly - 10 May 2017; Plamen Hristov, Albena Naydenova and Polina Tsankova - 12 May 2017; Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs - 30 May 2017; Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs - 4 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u8	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. Just one explanation about the time of 14:00. Initially, we discussed it being 1300 hours, but it coincides with the beginning of the National Security Advisory Council with President Radev, so we propose that it be at 14.00 hours. Please vote. They voted 167 MPs: 136 against 1, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. We continue with the pre-Program for today: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE COURT OF JUSTICE, No 754-01-69, submitted by the MPs Hamid Hamid Hamid, Danail Kirilov, Simeon Naydenov, Emil Dimitrov, Christian Mitev, Dimitar Lazarov and Anna Alexandrova on 5 October 2017 The First Voting Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce us to the MP Danail Kirilov. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 754-01-69, submitted by Hamid Barry Hamid, Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Simeon Georgiev Naydenov, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov, Hristian Radev Mitev, Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov and Anna Vasileva Alexandrova on 5 October 2017. At its meeting held on 11 October 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 754-01-69, submitted by Hamid Hamid, Danail Kirilov, Simeon Naydenov, Emil Simeonov, Christian Mitev, Dimitar Lazarov and Anna Alexandrova on 5 October 2017. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Justice: Mrs. Desislava Ahladova Deputy Minister; by the Supreme Judicial Council: Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev (SJC); by the Supreme Court of Cassation: Mr. Lozan Panov (President), and Mrs. Pavlina Panova (Deputy President); by the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria Ms. Maria Shishkova (Deputy Prosecutor-General). On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Danail Kirilov, who pointed out that the provisions of the Law on the Judiciary relating to the posting of magistrates create serious difficulties to ensure the proper functioning of the judicial authorities and should be refined. He noted that there were no grounds for abuse of the Institute of Posting of Unemployed Position, since the Law already contains sufficient guarantees for the timely announcement of the vacant posts by the administrative directors of their holding by competition, as well as guarantees that the posting is limited by time limits and will not last indefinitely. The Bill aims to remove the restrictions on re-assignment in order to reduce workload and even distribution of work in the judicial authorities. It is envisaged that an opinion of the General Assembly of the Judges of the relevant compartment or college will be taken into account before the posting is carried out. There are also proposed changes related to the Institute of Posting of magistrates in the system of prosecutors and investigation bodies, except for unemployed state figures, such as district and appeals prosecutors to use this opportunity only in district prosecutors from their district, and the Prosecutor General for all prosecutors and investigators at all levels of the prosecution and investigation departments in the country. It is envisaged that the allocation of vacant posts for initial appointment to the judicial authorities will take place by the decision of the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council in bodies of the respective level which could not master their free numbers under the other prescribed competition procedures. An additional material incentive is introduced for magistrates in specialized prosecutions and courts, in the investigating department of the special prosecutor's office, as well as for employees in these structures. The Bill also introduces changes relating to the need to transfer social security accounts to judges on the entries and state judicial contractors from the budget of the Ministry of Justice to the budget of the judiciary. The proposal aims to restore previous legislation, which follows the essence of the status of the Judges of the Registrys and the Civil Service Tribunals and the structure of the judicial system. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Philip Popov, Christian Mitev, Emil Dimitrov, Krum Zarkov and Yavor Notev, as well as representatives of the judiciary and executive power. All MPs and representatives of the institutions agreed that the changes to the posting institute were urgent and timely and should be supported. In the course of the discussion, attention was paid to the vague provision of additional remuneration only for specialized jurisdictions. Mr. Panov and Mrs. Panova said that the proposed change concerning additional material stimulus for the designated category of magistrates would not be the best way to secure them and would lead to an imbalance in the work of the other magistrates. In response to the concerns expressed by the representatives of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the MPs announced that the specific provisions concerning the additional remuneration between the first and second reading of the Bill were being refined. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 17 votes for...... 0 votes against................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No 754-01-69, imported from Hamid Barry Hamid, Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Simeon Georgiev Naydenov, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov, Hristian Radev Mitev, Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov and Anna Vasileva Alexandrova on 5 October 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u10	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Anybody want to brief us on the motives? No. We're moving on to speeches. Come in for a speech, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u11	Thank you, Madam President. This Law, for the most part, concerns the possibility for magistrates to be posted so that the judicial system does not become gassy and can carry out the tasks assigned to the respective magistrates. However, in § 12 and § 15 of this Draft, it is in practice about an additional motivation.. material, financial, but only and only of these magistrates, those judicial officers who work in the Special Court and the Prosecutor's Office, and it is written that the Supreme Judicial Council, according to rules for individual assessment of the results of the activity, determines up to six basic monthly remuneration per year for each magistrate for a given result. Here, honourable Members, it concerns, on the one hand, the motivation of these magistrates, but, on the other hand, it concerns the demotivation of other magistrates. Because if the criteria and the workload of the magistrate are known about the workload, let's say, in the Sofia District Court, in the Sofia City Court, in the prosecution too, this will disprove these magistrates. In addition, this is not about remuneration in accordance with the magistrate's rank. Because this magistrate, let's say, in the Supreme Court of Cassation, the judge will not receive such a reward, but will be of a higher rank than those in the Specialized Prosecutor's Office or equal to their rank, which is unfair. Thirdly, I think that there will be an internal competition between these magistrates in the Specialized Prosecutor's Office and a court, which will lead to some vague consequences, to a haste, God forbid, some of the criteria to be judgmental sentences, it is extremely dangerous. In this regard were all the opinions of the representatives of the judiciary invited to the Legal Committee. You should make changes to § 12 and § 15 and with respect to § 15 I do not see why the judicial officers of the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court and the Prosecutor's Office here will also be entitled to this bonus? How do they differ with regard to workload with district or city court officials? On the contrary, even there they are much busier. Next, it is not about composition, weight of the case, of the crime, but only about an individual who committed this act, this crime. Because convicted of this specialized court, you know what you did in view of the subject, are certain persons holding certain positions, say, mayor of the municipality, MP and so on. And it's only because of this thing that these magistrates need to be given additional material stimulation for efficiency. I mean, you tell them you have to sue these people because you'll get the right reward at all costs. I think this is extremely dangerous and for these reasons we cannot support this bill. In the rest, I do not have any comments, but these two texts are particularly dangerous, § 12, which is why we will abstain from the support of this Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u12	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Any lines to Mr. Popov's statement? I don't see any lines. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to briefly present the issues that we are dealing with in this Bill. It is a natural continuation of two previous legislative actions at the Forty-third National Assembly and the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Last calendar year, as you know, we made a substantial amendment to the Law on the Judiciary in many aspects concerning the status of magistrates. One of them was linked to the abrupt limitation of the possibility of magistrates being posted. We have taken note of this amendment that, under such a radical measure, there is a certain danger of limiting itself, of worsening the possibility of the dynamics of the personnel within the judicial system. But this act was essential to overcome doubts and concerns that the posting institute is being used, I say it directly, for personal purposes or for hidden career growth of certain preferred or favorite magistrates. At present, that amendment, I believe, has given rise to the desired effect. In any case, the Master's degree definitely links the relocation of another position with the holding of competitions. At the same time, the other major legislative amendment was from this year's end of the summer session, when we amended the Code of Criminal Procedure and entrusted the Specialized Criminal Court and the Specialized Prosecutor's Office with new competences, new powers in relation to the so-called corruption crimes by people holding high positions in the country. This change will necessarily.. and then we realized this will lead to an overload of the specialized courts and the special prosecutor's office. And then we assumed that if the change was approved by the parliament, we would carry out the follow-up in both directions in the direction of personnel security and in the direction of resource security. The proposal, which is of your attention, allows for the solution of the personnel matter and for the establishment of these judicial services with the respective magistrates. We all have consensus on that. The bill is signed by the four parliamentary groups. Only colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria have refrained from signing and joining this bill. On the subject, which my colleague Philip Popov commented a moment ago and which we discussed in detail in the Committee on Legal Affairs. See, this proposal in § 12 and § 15, respectively, followed the logic of the debate. I'll tell which debate. In order to get to this bill, the Legal Committee invited the heads of all appeals courts, of all appeals prosecutions, representatives of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court. In this discussion, in addition to the support for a minimal, moderate and reasonable correction in the posting institute, the question of resource security is also raised because in criminal justice the principle laid down in the criminal trial is applied, i.e. a judge is constantly involved in a case from beginning to end because of the requirement of personal and immediate perception of all evidence in the criminal trial. For this reason, if we post a criminal judge, he will at some point prove to be twice the burden. He will have to continue all the cases he has conducted at his main place of work and add to this volume another volume of cases to those who will find in the new place where he will go. That is, in this case, the volume of this judge's workload becomes at least twice as much and probably a lot more. For this reason, there is no motive for the magistrates to request such secondment. Rather, the opposite reaction to opposition arises, the reluctance to proceed in this posting regime. For this reason, this proposal arose in the framework of this debate. In the debate of the Legal Committee, we explicitly pointed out that this is not a coincidence, that this additional remuneration is not a head, a tack, but by rules of individual assessment, which should adopt and implement the Supreme Judicial Council. However, honourable Members, there is a debate on this issue, and in order for there to be no jealousy and internal opposition within the judiciary, let us use the time between first and second readings and offer the best solution in terms of the issue of one, I will not call it a double job compensation. I also ask that in this analysis you take into account the previous sentence in para. Article 6 233, which is explicitly stated: On the basis of the degree of workload of the relevant judicial authority, the Supreme Judicial Council may determine additional remuneration for a judge, prosecutor and investigator. Colleagues, this opportunity has it now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u14	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Replies to Mr. Kirilov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, today's Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary is a consequence of the adopted changes that we have made in this National Assembly, in the NPC, the NK and several other laws, extending the scope of prosecutorial competence and powers, as well as increasing the criminal liability of the Specialized Court. This would hypothetically lead to an increase in the work of the Specialized Court, probably also to the practical activity and increase, but I still want to look at two aspects, namely: the so-called "bonuses" for magistrates of the Specialized Court. I fear that this will lead to a new high caste magistrates, who will receive remuneration only for a positive result, namely a judgment that must be against the criminal responsible, that is, we pre-set a bonus and a money one, assuming some lack of interest or impartiality of the judges. The two things contradict each other and will lead to demotivation with other judges in a district and district court. I do not see what a district judge or district judge will work with less or will work less poorly so as not to receive such remuneration. Secondly, I would say that judges in the district court work with the same and greater workload than judges and prosecutors in the specialized court and cases of factual and legal complexity are no less, or with no less complexity, in order to ignore them and not receive such bonuses. On the other hand, I would also like to draw attention to the posting, which is done in order to level the workload in different judicial areas. That's kind of true. However, the proposed codification standards allow for avoiding competition and competition beginnings, allowing for hidden career growth based on the secondment of a magistrate to another judicial area. The competitive start is set and aims the best in the judiciary, through it to employ the number of best lawyers. But what do you get? Commandering goes not only to the busiest areas, but also to those who have vacant posts. There is a competition taking place, is occupied by a magistrate and is subsequently posted to the other busy area, where there is also a free number. I would like these two cases, which I have now examined, the norms that are being proposed to be refined so that we from the opposition can support them, as we are basically about the changes, but we have objections only to these two cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We move on to the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 754-01-69, submitted by Hamid Barry Hamid, Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Simeon Georgiev Naydenov, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov, Christian Radev Mitev, Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov and Anna Vasileva Alexandrova, on 5 October 2017. They voted 147 MPs: 110, none, abstention 37. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC FINLANDS. First, colleagues will brief us on the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mr. Kirilov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u17	Dear Madame, Chairman, honourable Members! I ask for a procedure to take into account the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on the bill, which has now been voted as the first item on the agenda, to be by Tuesday, 6 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u18	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. We are voting on Mr. Kirilov's procedure. [[Replyes: who Tuesday?]] Tuesday 17 October 2017 until 18:00 They voted 129 MPs: for 104, against 6, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u19	♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act, No 702-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017. At a meeting held on 6 October 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee examined a Draft Law supplementing the Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance and Directors of Directorates in the same ministry. The draft was presented by Deputy Minister Petrova, who pointed out that the main reasons for drafting the bill are related to the need to refine and further develop the regulatory framework in the following directions: fiscal rules and budgetary procedure; relations of the state budget with the budgets of municipalities and implementation of municipal budgets; lasting framework of relations related to banking services and the system of the single account and coordination of provisions of related legislation with the Public Finance Act. Changes relating to the achievement of full compliance with the requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the Member States in relation to the dialogue with the Commission in the framework of the transposition review of Council Directive 2011/85/EU of 8 November 2011 in national legislation are proposed in the first direction. Since the medium-term budgetary forecast, respectively the updated one, which is the reasons for the State Budget Bill, is a major national government budget document, additional requirements are introduced to extend its scope and content. The inclusion of key indicators of the sector is envisaged, including estimates of unchanged policies and those reflecting the fiscal impact of the envisaged new policies on the sector. The requirement is to provide information on the impact of the activities of undertakings falling within the scope of the sector of government on the balance and consolidated debt of the sector. The forecast is also intended to contain information on contingent liabilities that are a risk to the stability of public finances. A requirement is also introduced to analyse the sensitivity of forecasts to potential risk scenarios. A requirement is introduced for the Ministry of Finance to compare, apart from its current macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts, with that of the European Commission, and to argue in the event of significant differences. It is also possible to compare the estimates of basic budgetary indicators with those of other independent organisations. The provisions on the procedure for the submission and presentation of the programming budgets in the Council of Ministers and in the National Assembly are revised in order to ensure compliance with the parameters of the budget documents to the State Budget Bill. In the second direction, changes are proposed in the part of municipalities which concern the basic regulation of the relations between the municipal budget and the state budget. The main relationships, the size of which by species are adopted with the DSBRB, as well as the development of the arrangements concerning other relations with the state budget. The detailed conditions under which changes in budgetary relationships may be made, specifying the order in which changes are made, as well as the competent authorities, shall be defined. The framework on municipalities with financial difficulties is developed and refined in order to limit the negative effects on the budgetary position and on the local community. The third direction is mainly linked to the proposals which create a lasting framework of matter relating to securing, realising collateral and restoring funds to the accounts of budgetary organisations, which has so far been governed by annual budget laws. It is also proposed a regulation specifying the application of the Law on the Recovery and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Intermediaries in the context of the management of public finances, as well as the resulting changes to the State Fund Act on the Sustainability of the State Pension System, in the Public Offering of Securities Act, in the State Debt Act, in the Law on the Reconstruction and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Mediators. All these changes relate to the conclusions and conclusions and recommendations of the review of the current state of the financial sector carried out together with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund at the beginning of this year. After the presentation a discussion was held. People's representative Georgi Turnovaliyski expressed his opinion on the changes related to the relations of the state budget with the budgets of municipalities and the implementation of municipal budgets, namely that once again it is possible to change the budgets and budgetary relations of municipalities with the central budget without the National Assembly. This would be contrary to the reasons on the purpose of the municipalities to respect budgetary discipline, to improve accountability and to provide realistic forecasts in the budgetary planning process. Mr. Turnovalish wished to clarify whether the proposed changes mean that liquidity support will be provided to banks and what criteria will assess the provision of such support and what requires the inclusion of such texts. He insisted on specifying the difference in terms of budget relations. People's representative Dora Jankova expressed his opinion that the approach towards the authorising officers with a budget is not uniform and it is necessary to define the terms of the total subsidy. Deputy Minister Petrova provided the following detailed explanations of the questions and comments: With regard to the relationship with municipalities and more precisely the opinion on the subordinate attitude of the municipalities to the authorising officers, this could be discussed, the opinion between first and second readings and the consolidation of the comments. With regard to the notions of the budget relations and the relationship relations, it was pointed out that the relations of the Member States also contain the budgetary relations of the Member States. The extension of the concepts is made in order to make the process more transparent and systematic, considering that the main activities of the municipalities should be regulated by the budget and approved by the National Assembly. The additional activities which are outside the main activities related to the implementation of policies are clarified, therefore the provision concerning the mechanism of relations in the implementation of areas and policies is introduced. With regard to the provisions concerning liquidity support for banks and BNB. This comes from the conclusions of the financial sector review carried out by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. One of the recommendations is to provide the so-called Security Network in extreme cases when a bank is in temporary difficulty without endangering its functioning. In this case of the need to provide temporary liquidity, there must be a mechanism for rapid action where BNB, in its limitation of action in the Monetary Board, cannot provide liquidity except that which is designated under the Orders of BNB. It was then that the State could provide some temporary guarantee against the liquid support provided by the BNB. This norm does not avoid State aid rules. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Public Finance Act, No 702-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u20	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. The next report is from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act, No 702-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 12 October 2017, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act, No 702-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017. Mrs. Svetla Kostova, Director of the Department of State Treasure, Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Director of the Directorate of Municipal Finances and Mrs. Diana Dragneva, Director of Legal Directorate at the Ministry of Finance took part in the meeting of the committee. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Zheny Nacheva. The proposed amendments to the Bill are aimed at clarifying and further developing the legal framework in three main areas of the fiscal rules and budgetary procedure; relations of the state budget with the budgets of municipalities and implementation of municipal budgets; a lasting framework of relations related to banking services and the system of the single account and coordination of provisions of related legislation with the Public Finance Act. The changes proposed in the first main heading of the An extension of the scope and content of the medium-term budgetary forecast with the inclusion of additional information on key indicators in the The procedure for the submission and presentation of the programming budgets in the Council of Ministers and in the National Assembly is proposed to ensure compliance of the parameters of the budget documents with the State Budget Bill. The proposed changes in the state budget's relations with municipal budgets and the implementation of municipal budgets are related to the establishment of the main relationships, the size of which by species is adopted with the State Budget Act for the relevant year, as well as further development of the framework on other relations with the state budget. The changes shall specify in detail the conditions under which changes in budgetary relations may be made, specifying the order and the competent authorities. The changes related to the precision of the rules on municipalities with financial difficulties are aimed at limiting the negative effects on the budgetary position and on the local community and strengthening the financial discipline in the implementation of municipal budgets. Changes have also been proposed to create a lasting framework for the matter relating to securing, realising collateral and reimbursing funds on the accounts of budgetary organisations, which is currently governed by the annual laws on the state budget for the year in question. The Commission submitted opinions to the Fiscal Council and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, expressing the principled support to the Draft Law. In the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria are made concrete remarks and reasoned proposals for changes in separate provisions of the Bill, expressed reservations regarding the effect of the proposed changes to align certain conditions and restrictions in cases of decision-making to use temporary interest-free loans in temporary cash disruptions with those for the long-term municipal debt. During the discussion, the MPs expressed disagreement with some of the changes related to the relations of the state budget with the budgets of municipalities and the implementation of municipal budgets and drew attention to the need to refine separate provisions of the Bill in accordance with the expressed opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 8 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 1 vote abstention, proposes to the National Assembly a bill amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act, No 702-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u22	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Next, a report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Dr. Ademov, come in. : Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act, No 702-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting held on 11 October 2017 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance, who presented the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act. She pointed out that the main reasons for the drafting of the Bill are related to the need to refine and further develop the regulations in the following areas: fiscal rules and budgetary procedure; relations of the state budget with the budgets of municipalities and implementation of municipal budgets; a lasting framework of relations relating to banking services and the system of the single account and coordination of provisions of related legislation with the Public Finance Act. Changes relating to the achievement of full compliance with the requirements of the budgetary frameworks of the Member States in relation to the dialogue with the Commission in the framework of the transposition review of Council Directive 2011/85/EU of 8 November 2011 in national legislation shall be proposed in the first direction. In the second direction are proposed changes in the part of municipalities, which concern the basic regulation of the relations of the municipal budget with the state budget. The main relationships of which by species are adopted by the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as the development of the arrangements concerning other relations with the state budget. In the matter of scope of competence of the Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the information on the proposed amendments and additions to the State Fund Act on the Sustainability of the State Pension System. In this way, the possibility of investing funds of the Fund and other financial instruments of BNB is extended, and is offered in addition to deposits and accounts, the funds of the Fund can also be invested in loans of BNB and securities issued by BNB. The Law on Economic and Social Council also proposes amendments and additions to the Law on Economic and Social Council relating to the clarification of texts mainly related to the terminology used in the Public Finance Act. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: 13 votes, 1 vote against...................................................................................................... and 5 votes............................................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act with an importer: the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u23	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u24	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! The formal reason for the proposed amendments to the Public Finance Act and according to the reasons of the importer is to address the inaccuracies identified by the European Commission regarding the transposition of Council Directive 2011/85. However, the proposed changes are an attempt to solve other problems which were created in the years or in the introduction of the Public Finance Act in 2014. We can divide them in general, as it is according to the reasons of the importer, in three directions. The first heading is the Financial Rules and Budget Procedures. This is where the European Commission's recommendations on the transposition of the European Directive are reflected. These changes solve a very painful and serious problem because the introduction of the Public Finance Act in 2014 introduced the requirement for ministries to develop their budgets programly. This process has unfortunately been fully formally implemented over the years and the new rules aim to end the formality of this process and to be filled with content in the budgetary process. However, in order to achieve this, it will be necessary, as an annex to the State Budget Act, which will be submitted very soon, to sign, for example, capital expenditure, various subsidies, other transfers and so on. This is not done, for which we have repeatedly appealed from this tribune in the adoption of previous budgets for years. This is what it is intended for, and we believe that the requirement of the directive for a higher degree of budgetary transparency and transparency in the budgetary process as a whole will be met. The second direction has nothing to do with the review carried out by the European Commission. This is the direction related to the state budget relations and the implementation of municipal budgets. The reasons here are a change in texts for which we here, from this tribune, in 2016, and later with a constitutional complaint, have stated that they are unconstitutional. Now these texts are changing shyly, yet the problem is not solved, it is once again being bypassed and again behind the back of the National Assembly an attempt is being made to redesign the state budget precisely in the part of the state budget relations. Budget relations have a particularly important constitutional significance. That is why the Constitution recognises their constitutional status. The Constitution defines the exclusive competence of the National Assembly for determining and regulating the budgetary relations between the state budget and the budget of the municipalities through the State Budget Act or other law. Here again through art. 55a is being tried to circumvent these requirements of the Constitution. It is very strange why it is said that these relationships will be regulated and changed on the basis of the provisions of Section II, Chapter Eight of the Public Finance Act, which, notice, excludes the budget of municipalities. You are motivating this proposal with the need for municipalities to provide additional funds to implement specific programmes, projects, activities. Very strange: with the changes in the Law we aim to discipline municipalities, stimulate programming budgeting, respect budgetary discipline, improve accountability and provide reliable and realistic forecasts in the process of budgetary planning, and here we encourage municipalities in the process of implementation of the budget to provide requests to cover programmes, projects and activities. The proposed changes also do not uniformise the approach to the chief officers, including municipalities, with regard to fiscal rules and indicators. This was adopted by the Ministry of Finance and I hope that between the two readings will be regulated. It was recorded and read in the Report. The third direction is with regard to the permanent framework of the relationship relating to banking services and the system of the single account and the coordination of the related legislation. Here, as has been said in the Report, in the Commission, I have paid attention to art. 154, para. 23, where it is given the possibility for the Minister of Finance to be able to acquire on behalf of the State financial assets when applying state instruments for financial stabilisation and providing exceptional financial support. I asked the questions: why is it now being done; why are there no criteria on which the Minister of Finance will provide this liquid support? The answer was that this was from the review carried out by the World Bank by the International Monetary Fund that this was their requirement. They almost demanded that this be written only as text, without rules and criteria! The procedure for granting this liquidity support was in the Resolution Act of Financial Institutions (Law on the Reconstruction and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Intermediaries). I believe that if so, it should be written in the Law and there should be a reference that the procedure for granting liquid support is in the order of this law. If this is true, I expect it to be recorded between first and second readings, so that it is clear on which procedure this liquid support will be provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovallisky. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Once again, in this Parliament, with the transposition of a European directive into Bulgarian law, texts which, to put it mildly, amazement. This is now your practice, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority. I know you won't hear us this time either. There is no way to support a bill that violates the principles of local self-government and the European Charter of Local Self-government. It is a symbolic coincidence that this happens exactly on the days when Bulgarian municipalities celebrate their holiday, and at least in these days they expect some gesture of partnership from state institutions. With this bill are taken away municipal rights, won with many years of efforts by local authorities, there are proceeds from achieved legal levels of dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as the right of the Association to defend the interests of municipalities in their entirety regarding the draft state budget. The use by § 18 of the already poor income of the investment nature of the municipalities for the repayment of temporary interest-free loans is a precedent. The text of § 19, which introduces additional bans on municipalities with financial difficulties, is in absolute contradiction with art. 4 t. 4 of the European Charter on Local Self-Management, which reads: The powers entrusted to local self-government bodies must in principle be complete and unlimited. They can only be challenged or restricted by another authority, either central or regional, within the framework of the law. Behind the concern for the financial recovery of the Bulgarian municipalities, you, ladies and gentlemen, are trying to take over the manual management of local self-government and put it depending on. This will lead to the blocking of basic activities and a complete lack of any possibility of urgent costs, even if there is a temporary deviation, and only one of the indicators of financial difficulties. What kind of autonomy of the municipalities are we talking about when, in such cases, they will have to pray for the charity of the state?! Once again, I will quote the European Charter on Local Self-government: The granting of subsidies should not affect the fundamental freedom of local self-government authorities to define their policies within their powers. Clearly, we cannot support such a bill. We believe that the damage he will do to the Bulgarian municipalities will be irreparable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Replies to Mr. Ivanov's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleagues have expressed our main remarks on the adoption of the proposed Public Finance Act. I'll take the liberty of saying a few words. The Bulgarian Socialist Party filed a constitutional complaint about the adopted Public Finance Act last year. This did not in any way make sense of the behaviour of the ruling majority that broadcast this government. On the contrary, with the project being offered to us at the moment, not only is there no revision of these performances and principles that you had proposed in the Public Finance Act, but on the contrary, you are even continuing in this wicked direction and further developing them with the new proposed article. 55a, which in an exceptional way gives power to the executive power to dispose of the budgetary relations of the municipalities. It should be very clear that budgetary relations have a fundamental and essential character and are therefore regulated in the Bulgarian Constitution. It is very clear there who accepts the country's budget and this is the National Assembly. There is no way for the National Assembly to delegate these powers to it by the Constitution and transfer them to the Council of Ministers. There is no way for such a type of budgetary relationship to be carried out by sub-normative acts, by acts of a sub-normal nature. What is important in this case is that you, by violating the fundamental principles of the rule of law, of separation of authorities, achieve something else: you domesticate the Bulgarian municipalities. This means that the mayors and the majority of the municipal councils, which are from the political power that governs and forms the majority, will be stimulated and on a party sign will receive subsidies, and for all the others there will be nothing we are witnessing, including this year, when tens of millions of funds are distributed by decrees of the Council of Ministers, without being clear on what grounds, without being clear what effect and what goals are being achieved by giving funds to certain municipalities, which are, for the most part, representatives of your mayors. That's what we object to. The Constitution very clearly states that the National Assembly is the body that determines budgetary relations and their size. The Constitution very clearly states that local self-government and municipal budgets are not part of the state budget, but are independent and, as such, the executive power has no right and power to interfere in their adoption, implementation and control. This is a fundamental principle against which the Left objects. It is supposed to be widely accepted by everyone as a direction of decentralisation, which we have declared repeatedly, but you and the government of Boyko Borisov 3 years invade it and try to control and subjugate the local authorities only for the political purposes you pursue. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u29	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Here's a line for you, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, I do not agree with the limitation only to the fact that this bill makes an attempt at political subjugation. Mr. Boychev, you're missing the economic hoops. You fail to mention that this is the way to guarantee the funding by the ruling party of the family-municipality formation in Bulgaria, which already appears: when families rule municipalities. This is actually the dangerous thing, because in addition to the political obedience that you are talking about, there is a great danger that this public resource, which should be in the interest of the citizens of all municipalities from all over Bulgaria, should enter into certain relative pockets. That's what you missed. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Boychev, will you have the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u32	Thanks for the line, Mr. Ermenkov. I thought I made myself clear, but I'm going to further what you said. At the heart of this vicious model of governance of the country we are witnessing, the foundation is the local government. In order to be the local authority at the base of the model, which constantly reproduces, it needs financial resources. It is precisely the possibility of the Council of Ministers, within the course of the budget year, outside the parameters voted by this House in the national budget, to allocate in its sole discretion financial resources to the municipalities, giving way for this model to be powered, and by feeding this model with financial resources, it to reproduce continuously. In the past elections in two municipalities in Bulgaria, which were last Sunday, this was seen in a brutal way, Mr. Ermenkov, unfortunately. It has come to this even if the bodies of social patronage are put into political use in order to win elections. These are the funds of the state, of the municipalities. It is unacceptable in any way to use them to implement certain political orders! [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act, No 702-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017. Vote 142 MPs: 88, against 43, abstention 11. The draft law was passed at first reading. Moving on to the next item of yesterday's agenda: The Law on Modification and Complement of the Law on the Export Control of Products RELATED TO THE RECEIVED AND THE TECHNOLOGY OF DOUBLE USE. Report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mrs. Saveklieva, perhaps you? I don't see Mr. Kanev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u34	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Export Control Act on Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products, No 702-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2017. At its regular meeting on 4 October 2017, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Export Control of Defence Products and Double-Use Products. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov. The Bill reduces the administrative burden by removing the requirement to provide certain documents in paper form, refines texts for the purpose of their unambiguous interpretation, optimizes part of existing administrative procedures. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Export Control of Defence Products and Double-Use Products, No 702-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. I'm opening the debate. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products, No 702-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2017. 120 MPs voted: 118, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. For the procedure please, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u36	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am making a procedure for the bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Export Control of Defence Products and dual-use products to be three days between the first and second votes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u37	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveklieva. We are voting on the procedure that has just been made. Vote 116 MPs: 103, against 3, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, seven minutes to 10:30. We'll start with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR MANAGEMENT BY THE EUROPEAN STRUCTURAL AND INVESTIGATION FUNDS The representatives of the National Assembly were Ivelina Vassileva, Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova on 8 September 2017. Mrs. Stoyanova, who will introduce us to the Second Reading Report? Maybe we'll just have time for the title or permission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u38	Madam President, Report on a bill amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, No 754-01-53, submitted by Ivelina Vasileva and a group on 8 September 2017. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission shall support the text of the importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1 and § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u39	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. We vote on the name, § 1 and § 2, as proposed by the Commission. Vote 114 MPs: 112 against 1, abstention 1. The proposal has been adopted, and thus the name, first and second paragraphs of the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u40	Under § 3 there is a proposal of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Ivan Ivanov § 3 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u41	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Ivan Ivanov, which the Commission does not support. Vote 116 MPs: 48 against 56, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal proposed by the Commission for § 3, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 75 against 4, abstention 28. The proposal has been adopted, and with that, § 3 on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u42	The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. The 6th sentence, second in the beginning, is added. "For proceedings under Chapter 10th, Section IV of the Administrative Procedure Code and the Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u43	I shall put to the vote the support of § 4 of the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 108, none, abstention 6. The proposal has been adopted and § 4 of the Commission report with this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u44	Under § 5, there is a proposal from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Ivan Ivanov, supported by the Commission. Proposal by the National Representative Imren Mehmedova, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: in Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 36, para. 2 the words "10 days' shall be replaced by "30 days'.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u45	Proceed further.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u46	The Commission shall support the importer's texts for paragraphs 6, 7, 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u47	Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u48	Madam President, honourable Members! I see that the Commission has shown a certain degree of reason, reducing the proposed initial deadline, i.e. a missing deadline for submitting the necessary documents. However, I would like to protect to the MPs proposals from us for a 15-day period because it is much more disciplined and motivating in the direction of those beneficiaries who are obliged to submit the relevant documentation, to provide it within a 15-day period, this period is under the GPC and is quite sufficient to collect all the necessary documents. It is a good thing that reason prevailed and put some kind of final limit on those deadlines that were absent in the original version of the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u49	There's no such thing as a 10-day period at first.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u50	No, initially, Mrs. Stoyanova, there was no time limit and wrote a reasonable deadline. The Commission has now adopted the option of a 30-day deadline. However, I would still like to protect the 15-day period, which I think is much more disciplined than the 30-day period and would force beneficiaries to carry out the necessary activities which are related to the submission of the relevant documents to the managing authority. I call on my fellow Members to support our proposal for a 15-day period.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u51	Here you are, Mrs. Stoyanova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u52	Dear Mr. Ivanov, the Commission has decided the deadline to be 30 days and we discussed this very thoroughly. Fifteen days may seem like a disciplinary period to you, but in fact it will not be enough for the beneficiaries to supply documents, if necessary, by the NRA and if these beneficiaries have any obligations for one reason or another, they need technical time in the NRA, or to pay them and be reflected in the system, or to request the deferral of these obligations and to receive it in order to obtain a certificate of absence of obligations. This was the reason why the deadline you have been proposing for 15 days has become 30 days. However you claim that this term is less disciplined than the 15-day period, I believe it is in the interests of the beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u53	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Will there be a hole, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u54	Dear President, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Stoyanova! However, the goal that we had was achieved. You have obviously listened to the debates that took place at first reading. In the end, some upper limit will be set, some time limit for the submission of documents. Whether it's this 15-day term or 30 days, the gym will decide. What is important is that you listened to the opposition's voice and agreed that there should be a term in general and not the so-called reasonable term, which was in the original version of the text. I am glad that the government eventually listens to the opposition. So let the House decide...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u55	You signed up, you have a red dot from Mrs. Nino. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u56	Madam President, we are not having a dialogue with Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u57	You two talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u58	From the stands. [[laughs, laughs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u59	Talk to each other from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u60	If that's the practice, at least change the rules of procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u61	No, no, you guys are talking. I gave you my word. Don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u62	Mrs. Stoyanova has a dialogue with me. I am trying to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u63	You don't listen to her talk. Mrs. Stoyanova, please don't disturb the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u64	So let the House make the final decision on whether it will be a 15-day period or a 30-day period, what is important is that our constructive proposals have been heard in order to have a disciplinary period. As we said at the very beginning, these frameworks, which have been set up for a reasonable period, will create quite controversial caselaw. At the moment, we are relieving both beneficiaries and managing authorities, respectively, every single country on spending European funds. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I'll put it to the vote as an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u66	What editorial? There's a text on the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u67	I put to the vote Mr. Ivanov's editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u68	He has not made an editorial amendment, ma'am. This is the text of the Commission in 30 days. He's just writing red dots in his speech. [[laughs, laughs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u69	Let's vote, Mrs. Stoyanova. Please vote on Mr. Ivanov's editorial amendment...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u70	Do you have an editorial amendment, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u71	Yeah, 15 days!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u72	He said there's an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u73	What does Mr. Ivanov want for 15 days? [[Radio.]] Madam President, I ask you very much to explain to this House what we are voting on right now, what you are voting on!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u74	We are currently voting on the editorial amendment, which Mr. Ivanov said from the stand in art. 36, para. 2 the number sssxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Editorial amendment. Vote 96 MPs: 25, against 60, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting § 5 on the Commission report. Vote 120 MPs: 110 against 1, abstention 9. Paragraph 5 of the Commission Report has been adopted. Please vote on paragraphs 6, 7, 8 and 9, as the Commission presents them, supported by the same. Voted 118 MPs: 117, against no, abstention 1. Paragraphs 6, 7, 8 and 9 have been adopted under the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u75	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinei 1 and 2 are amended as follows: Art. 75. (1) The financial correction shall be made by payments under the project involving the costs affected by the infringement. Where the decision determining the financial correction is issued after the relevant payment, the financial correction shall be made by voluntary implementation by the beneficiary within 14 days and for cross-border cooperation programmes at the external borders of the European Union within 30 days. After the expiry of the voluntary payment period, the financial correction shall be made by a subsequent payment of the project together with the interest due for default and, where this is not attributable to the exercise of rights under the collateral granted by the beneficiary under art. 61, para. 2, in order and manner defined in the legal act referred to in art. 7, para. 4 t. 4. (2) After the final payment under a project, the outstanding financial corrections shall be a public claim according to art. 162, para. 2, p. 8 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. 2. In para. 3 and 4 words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u76	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 10, which the Commission shall support. Voted 118 MPs: 116, no objection, abstention 2. Paragraph 10 of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u77	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... Article 76 is repealed. Under § 12, there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with Article 12. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1, t is created. 8. It's 8 o'clock. National co-financing is co-financing provided through transfer from the central budget according to art. 60, t. 2 of the Public Finance Act. 2. In § 4: (a) in para. 1 the words "controls' shall be replaced by "controls' and "controls'; (b) in para. 2 the words in the Integrated Administration and Control System under Chapter 3 of the "Secretary' shall be replaced by the terms and conditions of the "Secretary'.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u78	Statements referred to in paragraphs 11 and 12 as proposed by the Commission? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 11 and § 12, which the Commission shall support. 120 MPs voted: 118, none, abstention 2. Paragraphs 11 and 12 of the Commission Report have been adopted, and thus the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act. Guys, we're breaking up here. 11:00. Parliamentary control. [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u79	We shall continue the sitting with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL New questions concerning the period from 6 October 2017 to 12 October 2017: - by the MP Vesela Lecheva to Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry on a grant policy for small and medium-sized farms under Sub-measure 4.1. supplied in agricultural holdings and sub-supplied in tangible assets and activities under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020. To be answered in the plenary session on 20 October 2017. Written answers for service by: - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to a question from the MPs Lalo Kirilov and Radoslav Stoychev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MP Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on two issues from the National Representative Dessislava Todorova; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Andon Donchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Violeta Jeleva; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the MP Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Milena Alexandrova; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Education, Science and Culture Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the MPs Krum Zarkov, Georgi Stoilov, Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on two issues by the National Representative Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Manol Genov. We're starting today's parliamentary control. Here you are, Mr. Karadayi, for a Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u80	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The reason for today's Declaration is statements of 12 October this year by nationalists in the National Assembly. Yesterday, there was a nationalist language in its brightest form, which directly calls for violence and creates a sense of threat. Here, we have been speaking about this language for a long time the language of the division of Bulgarians, Turks, Gypsies, Jews, language of opposition, language of conflict. This language has many manifestations through speech, photos, actions. It is expressed in racial and religious hatred, anti-Semitism and all forms of xenophobia based on intolerance. The bearers of this language are the nationalists, but today's Declaration is not for them. They have been clear to us for a long time, to Europe as well, and to all reasonable and responsible Bulgarian citizens. These are people who seek political and personal legitimization through conflicts at the expense of all society and the state. It's not for them our Declaration. Those who allow this language are responsible. For their words, actions and the consequences of this responsibility is party GERB. Colleagues from GERB! The people assigned you responsibility for the country's rule, but they did not assign you the inclusion of nationalists in power, and their behaviour today is the result of their inclusion in power. The acquittal of the people is not worth it, as it is not an excuse in the Netherlands, France, Germany and so on in a democratic Europe. And don't make threats! I will allow myself a quote from this insidious nationalist expression: "And be careful, because we can crush them. " - I will only remind that Todor Zhivkov wanted to crush us too. We weren't stopped by the barrels of guns or tanks on the road to democracy. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We call on all nationally responsible parties, all state bodies and institutions to take quick and adequate treatment for the so-defined symptoms. Today, the phenomenon is not enough to be condemned; decisive action is needed today. That is why the DSS is calling on the Prime Minister to take decisive action immediately. We are addressing the President of the Republic of Bulgaria to carry out his mission as the unification of the nation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. The word has Anton Kutev on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There's no way that Mr. Kasabov's statements yesterday could go unresponsive. From this point of view, I mean, we all saw yesterday that we witnessed another shameful episode of our parliamentary history. I regret that we are once again dealing not with the future of the country, not with the welfare of the people, not with the development of the economy, not with the depressing poverty or with the growing problems of health care, but again we need to talk about manifestations of political and moral bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard words like, "Be careful what they say and not get in the way of our feet." It's about bedbugs, the translation from Turkish, as far as I can tell, and they stink and smell a lot. This is the rhetoric we heard yesterday. Excuse me, colleagues, but in these words there is an undisclosed threat that involves violence, a threat on a purely organic level. The address is not to people, but to bedbugs that can easily be crushed. By the way, there is a member of the Penal Code that deals with this. However, I am not a judge, but a representative of a democratically elected parliament. This is precisely why the threat in political relations is unacceptable to me. It is actually not permissible anywhere, not only in political relations. Let's be clear, I'm not defending the DPS here. They, as we can see, do not need our protection, nor did they want it, and it is not our job. For us, in this blatant statement, there is a violation of human rights. We have a humane problem with it because such rhetoric is unacceptable even at the lowest street level. Whatever your level is in life, falling into the Bulgarian Parliament, whether by merit or by mistake, and in Parliament we have seen of both, you become a representative of the political elite of the state, however failed he may be in the eyes of the people. And being part of the elite means having ideas, behavior, rhetoric, which, if not significant, at least slightly above the national average, because we here give the tone of what is happening in Bulgaria. I claim that in the speech of the colleague we saw a speech which is sharply below the acceptable level.. not below the average but below the acceptable level. And this talk comes out at an official press conference on behalf of a parliamentary group and is addressed to the political opponent. We're not talking about a tavern or a booze-soaked head. In broad daylight, in parliament, probably sober, someone allowed himself to threaten his political opponent and quite harshly. And this is done by a ruling majority member. I have a question for the ruling gentlemen: well, it was aimed at the DPS, good, we'll crush them. And then the Bulgarian citizens, who are their members and sympathizers, will we crush them, or do we have other plans? And if we're going to smash, do we start with the parliamentary group? Are the mayors gonna smash them, the city councilmen, the activists? Where will the parliamentary anger of the government stop? In this situation will we make a difference between Bulgarian citizens with Turkish and Arabic self-awareness in the smashing? Are Jews and Armenians minorities? Where's the limit where we can afford to smash if we leave here? By the way, one of the questions is homosexuals and communists, are they on the makan list? We're gonna leave them, we're gonna crush them, where's the border? [[Heckling]] Because a few days ago another member of the government reported proudly: better a fascist than a communist. Isn't that right? By the way, I am convinced that the colleague would say that from the National Assembly stands. He came up with the idea when he came down. If it had occurred to him in time, he'd have spanked him. I am dealing with the national representation of this topic, mainly because it is not an episode mistake for me of a person who hardly distinguishes public tolerance to tolerance and intolerance. I'm talking about this because the signals in this direction are getting trendy. Your term of office began with jokes of a fascist theme, went through the firing of journalists, parading anticommunism and is now in the phase of physical threat to a political opponent. Colleagues, there's a trend here that needs to stop. There is no parliament in the world where, after such speeches, the MP who made them stays in parliament. Sorry, guys, there isn't one. This is the opposite of parliamentaryism. This is the dark bottom of parliamentaryism, which is why power in Bulgaria is below the critical minimum with confidence. This is the bottom of parliamentaryism because the main quality of civilized state is the monopoly on violence. When a MP threatens violence on the most official way possible, it dethrons the state and the constitution, because the state has a monopoly on violence, not the MP. And when the MP allows himself to do so, we then have a certain, including a constitutional problem. We have a problem with who runs the country and who in this case is the one who has the right to distribute violence. And then there's the questions I've already asked. Where do we get to when we start doing this? That is why there is a Constitution and order in modern countries and it is clear that a member of parliament cannot do it. And now I appeal to all of you: among you, among the majority, there are people undoubtedly intelligent, with whom we have good relations, however hard this may sound from the parliamentary tribune, but people, this is written on the back of all of you! I don't see a Professor. Stanilov, whom I respect. Here's one of the examples. I don't know how, Professor. Stanilov would stand behind this statement and behind such behavior. I don't want to list any other names. There are some people among you who I would personally ask: how will you stand by this? This is a problem that must be solved by the so-called political elites. If there are people in politics to rule the country, they're here in this room. If the majority does not now solve its problem with this MP because we said that this is unacceptable, people will solve it. If you do not find a way to remove something that is obviously harmful to the whole country and democracy, people will do so. I don't know how they're gonna do that. They'll find their way. Whether they do it in elections or riots is a question of how fed up they will be. But if we want to leave in any way some stability in the country, you are obliged to solve this problem now... you, the majority. It's your problem that your resignations are one after the other. As Vesela Lecheva said yesterday, "When she left with the resignations and so a whole session." That's your problem, but this man in parliament can't stay. Whether he resigns or you remove him, think of the procedure, but what is happening right now is crossing the line. This isn't about hate language. That's not even what this is about. This is not about European values. Here it is that the Constitution and the meaning of the state are subject to defamation. Your colleague's resignation! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u83	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. On behalf of the group Mr. Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u84	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We listened to two statements from two different political parties from the opposition and realized that they were very scared. [[The DPS Parliamentary Group is leaving the hall.]] So far, with their behavior, they're fearless, they're not afraid of anything, and suddenly they're scared, and they're scared. What are you afraid of? Are the United patriots chasing someone on a political basis from work? Is it true that the United Patriarchs are pursuing someone for being of a different religion or of a different nationality? On the contrary, you did these things and especially DPS, which twenty-several years crush the local population in different municipalities, whether they are Bulgarians, Gypsies or Turks. It's you who's talking about who's smashing people is the least moral. And best of all, you're out of the room. Because what the DPS has been doing for almost three decades in Bulgaria, the whole society sees it. Therefore, the results of the DPS will decrease further in elections, because they are a formation that is only interested in how to participate in power, how to absorb funds and how to serve foreign national interests. You see, we nationalists have been bad. We may be bad, but we are Bulgarian nationalists, we are not nationalists of foreign countries. Ladies and gentlemen of the BSP, when you talk about morality, first look at what you have done over these three decades as governance. First look at how you've crushed people for having different political beliefs. First see the history of your party, which you do not deny, how you crushed the Bulgarians...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u85	We?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u86	Your party, where you have declared yourself successors to the BCP. ...how you made it have a Macedonian nation and language, how you beat people to be Macedonians. And nowadays, when the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian majority managed to do so that after a hundred and several years of fighting for the Bulgarians in Albania to be recognized, no activity by the DPS, no activity by the defending party, no activity by the BSP in support of our compatriots in Albania! Where are you? You're moral, you're fighting for the rights, why don't you support them? Or do you only care about scandals, you only care about who said what? And you have turned parliament into a Mahlenian gossiper. You deal with who said what. If you're afraid of someone, what can they say, what are you doing in Parliament? Are you that scared? Some MP had said something about what you were, and they were afraid of it. Well, if you're afraid, don't enter parliament. Who's driving you? Give an example to the nationalists, where they've made it so they've crushed someone, driven someone out. You're not going to set an example like that. And examples from your party many. Several times participation in the government of the state! Several times you have been involved in the government of the state for almost three decades, and what have you done? Today you offer various bills that could have been passed when you ruled the country. You're the most moral today. You woke up yesterday in politics, you're brand new, just born! Well, first admit your mistakes and then talk about morality. First, apologize to the Bulgarians from Macedonia, who you participated in, your party, to which you claim to be an heir, to be deborn. Why didn't you apologize? You apologized to the DPS, kissed, hugged. Well, apologize to the Bulgarians, to the Bulgarians from Macedonia, say: "Yes, it was a mistake, it was a decision of another country or other countries, we did not do right by these people. Today we're talking about morality. And I will return to the DPS, who are the great human rights defenders. A bill submitted to the Commission for this is why Bulgarians who are born Bulgarians abroad, when their parents want to enroll them in Bulgaria, and the country in which they are born does not allow them to have a father's name, and in Bulgaria also cannot have a father's name for this reason that they must pass the decision through the court. There is a bill tabled on behalf of the patriots that is why every Bulgarian and his parents who wish to write down his father's name should have this opportunity to do so. And where are the great DPS human rights defenders and Democrats who did not support this bill? Whose interests do they serve? That is, the DPS is against the Bulgarians abroad having a father's name. And they talk about morality and violence and fear?! I'm sorry, but neither the DPS nor the BSP have the right to talk about morality until they apologize for all the mistakes they've made over these three decades of transition. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u87	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Are there any more declarations? Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky. [[Radio and shouts "Oooo" by BSP for Bulgaria.]] A declaration on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Don't worry, there won't be a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u89	Only a statement can be made, there's nothing else.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u90	Yeah, a statement. Mr. Kutev, when you show here part of something that happened in the hall, be objective. From this tribune in all my speeches I have spoken only the truth and none of you disprove it. [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]] After my last speech, I was already coming down, your MP squealed at me with the phrase: "Fashist." [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] First, it has been scientifically proven that there has never been fascism in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u91	I guess it's a personal explanation. Change it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u92	Secondly, I've been on the side of democratic forces for 27 years. Thirdly, the whole of Europe and the civilized world have scientifically proved that fascism is the first stage of evil, and the higher stage of evil is communism. It's scientifically proven. In this sense, if someone is called a member of the group, it is a lesser insult than calling him a "communist" - one condemned in Bulgaria and a dictatorship. Thank you. [[National Representative Anton Kutev wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u93	I can't give you a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u94	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u95	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u96	That was a statement. That's what it said on the dashboard.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u97	It was a personal explanation. Don't keep an eye on the monitor. [[Relations from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.]] Don't keep track of the monitor dynamics.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u98	Mr. Glauchev, as a man who follows the dynamics, I must tell you that Mr. Gurnevsky had no reason to explain himself because I didn't give it to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u99	Because you didn't mention his name.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u100	Not just that. I didn't mention it at all. I said, "A member of parliament said." How does he recognize himself in this? One MP said? is another question, but how do you recognize him is even different.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u101	Yes, I accept.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u102	So he had no personal explanation. Mr. Gurnevsky, I didn't disprove you once, not because I can't disprove you. The reason you'll find out why I don't do it so I don't say it. I don't want to get into this conversation for hygienic reasons.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u103	I was just about to call you to address me. I hope this last one isn't for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u104	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u105	Are there any other declarations? It's time to move on to actual parliamentary control. Questions to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. First question from the National Representative Mihail Hristov on the procedure, construction and development of centres of excellence at the Ministry of Education and Science. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In August 2016, a procedure was launched for the construction and development of centres of excellence. The deadline for submitting the project proposals was 23 January 2017. While all these administrative details flow, the money for science cannot go at all. Over 340 million already agreed projects have been frozen. lv. This means that until they are released again, the budget will bear the costs. You, Minister, have said that Bulgaria will probably refuse some of the agreed funds under these contracts, but the most severe is the situation in the first axis. There you, Minister, admit that there is a real risk of loss of funds. We're talking about 350 million. BGN, as a condition of the European Commission, to use at least 30% of the funds on this axis by the end of 2018, which is slightly more than 100 million. lv. If these funds are not requested by the end of 2018, a smaller percentage of free funding under the programme will be paid and the lost funds will be up to 70 million. BGN, which is 7% of the program. It is not a small amount for such an area in Bulgaria. And if something general does not improve in the program, it will come a familiar decision. Transfer to other ones. My main question, Mr. Minister, is: how far has the procedure come and what has the valuers changed several times? What is the result of the European Commission's examination of the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Minister Valchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u108	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Hristov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" is working on the evaluation of the project proposals under the procedure. At this stage, eight proposals from 11 have been made. A company was chosen with a public procurement to provide experts with international experience to carry out the submitted project proposals. In February this year, the procedure was terminated, which led to its appeal and its conclusion was only possible after a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court which confirmed that the termination was unfounded. In accordance with the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, the managing authority entered into a contract with the selected contractor as a result of the contract and conducted training of its international valuers on 21 August. By order of the Head of the Managing Authority, the composition of the evaluation committee and the time limits for carrying out a technical and financial assessment of the draft proposals shall be determined. The evaluation period shall be two months and each project shall be examined and evaluated by at least five international assessors assisted by expert opinions of a financier and engineer also provided by the external contractor. The team of the Ministry of Education and Science is also working intensively on the implementation of the Action Plan on the preliminary audit report in the Audit Mission of the Directorate-General for Regional and Urban Policy. At present, we can take into account that more than 90% of the measures set out in the action plan, which fall within the competence of the Ministry of Education and Science, have been implemented. Action has been taken on the most critical finding of the audit report. The most key of them is the separation of the managing authority into an independent unit, which will ensure its functional independence to the highest extent. On 31 August 2017 a draft decree of the Council of Ministers for the establishment of the Operational Programme Executive Agency "Science, education and smart growth" was published for public discussion for the adoption of its Rules of Procedure. It is planned for the new Agency to start functioning as of 1 November 2017. An organisation has been established, the restructuring to be carried out smoothly without delaying the work processes. In parallel with the implementation of the other commitments made by the Bulgarian side to the Council of Ministers, I expect the decree to be adopted next week by the Council of Ministers. In view of the progress in the implementation of the Action Plan and the separation of the Managing Authority into a new executive agency, the meetings and consultations held with stakeholders at the end of October will submit a draft decision of the Council of Ministers to update the Action Plan, given the results achieved and the changed realities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u109	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u110	Dear Minister, from your entire statement in writing, I did not understand, unfortunately, anything. I understand the measures have been implemented at 90%, whatever that means. We're not talking 100,000 here. BGN, we're talking 350 million here! I don't know exactly who's to blame and who's to blame for giving money, and obviously we're not good enough to be able to handle it the right way. The right way to master them! I hope something really happens, because that's 350 million. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. A hole? You have the floor, Minister Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u112	Your parliamentary question contained two sub-questions. One is connected to the Second and Third Axis of the Operational Programme. My answer is that 90% of the measures under the plan to overcome the recommendations in the Audit Report are implemented, the remaining 10% are related to the establishment of the Executive Agency and the final revaluation of the project proposals, which also has a deadline of 1 November. With regard to these 350 million, they are linked. This is one of the two major operations -- centres of excellence and the construction of centres of competence. We have delays and they are in 2015, in 2016 and in 2017. Rather we have accumulation of different delays. For example, in 2017, the delay resulted from the termination of the valuer procedure. We may have further minor delays after the Supreme Administrative Court Decision until the valuers are launched, but the two-month evaluation period for the project proposals, which I told you, is currently running out on 21 or 22 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u113	Thank you, Minister Valchev. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u114	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct to draw attention to parliamentary control and what, Mr President, you should be following. On September 29th, my colleague Ivan Genov and I issued a written answer to Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova with a request to inform us what action he plans to take on the equipment he has bought from Russia in connection with the NPP. On the 6th, when the answer was supposed to be planned, there was no request for delay, but we tactfully decided to give her a little more time, we didn't bring it up. Today we are the 13th time limit, in which there is no longer a right to delay this question and we have not yet received an answer. Mr. Chairman, I understand that it is difficult for Minister Petkova to explain why some of the equipment lies on the lawn in Belene and countless millions of euros have been thrown to rust. However, let us be honorable and come to us to inform us about what is going on, because otherwise it happens, Mr President, that the management of the National Assembly also becomes an accessory to the fact that the Ministry of Energy does not know at all what is going on in Belene, what is going on with the equipment, there is no idea what action should be taken and therefore something cannot give us an answer. When a taxpayer paid over 600 million. EUR for these reactors in Bulgaria because you know that they were paid with money to the state, this minister is obliged to answer the question what she intends to do with this equipment. Either she doesn't care or she doesn't know. If she doesn't care, then she's not politically mature enough on the subject, if she doesn't know, then she's not professionally suited to perform her duties. I ask you very much to take steps to get an answer to this written question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u115	A letter was received from her on the 6th after it was announced in the hall, but after today is still a final deadline, so she should be answering you today. Otherwise, I will take the necessary steps to inform you of what is happening. The next question to Minister Valchev is from the National Representative Irena Anastasova, about the State Educational Standard for Physical Environment, Information and Library Insurance of kindergartens and schools and centers for personal development support. You have the floor, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u116	Dear Mr. Glauchev, dear Mr. Valchev, dear colleagues! A year and two or three months the new Law on pre-school and school education, in which art. 22 It says what state educational standards will function in the system of education; with what legal act they are adopted. In this regard some of these standards are not ready yet, some of them are not released for public discussion, are not uploaded to the Ministry's website. The standard for physical environment, information and library provision of institutions in the education system, in general, is one of those standards. My question is: what is the reason why we haven't seen such a standard yet? I think the Ministry of Education is working on it, but the delay is pretty serious. When does the Ministry of Education intend to upload some version of this standard for public discussion and how do all other accounts in the system are made in general, and estimates without having such a standard for physical environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u117	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. Minister Valchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u118	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Anastasova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the adoption of the Law on pre-school and school education, the commitment of the Ministry of Education to develop, to establish and present the adoption of the Council of Ministers over 35 regulations, including 19 educational standards. To date, 18 of them have been confirmed. The only one who is not established is the standard for which you have set a question. The Ministry of Education and Science continues to work on developing the state educational standard for physical environment and information library insurance. The deadline for the conclusion of the draft regulation by me is at the beginning of 2018, in particular the end of January 2018. The fact that the act has not yet been put into public consultation is due to the fact that the public relations covered by the act have already been regulated in Ordinance No RD 02-23/212.12.2015 on the design, implementation and maintenance of public service buildings in the field of education, science, health, culture and arts of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. That fact sparked a debate on the extent to which an act treating matters already governed by the legislation in force is admissible and appropriate. As a result of the discussion, a change in the concept of the draft act of the regulation was required. It is discussed the need to establish rules for the book collection in libraries and annual book renewal in school libraries. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 8 of the Law on pre-school and school education provides that this state educational standard is to be adopted by Decree of the Minister of Education and Science and the Minister of Health, agreed with the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, with the Minister of Finance, with the Minister of Youth and Sports, the Minister of Culture and the Chairman of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. 15 external experts from 15 different institutions concerned with the matter that the standard regulates participate in the development process. A number of meetings are envisaged to achieve a balance between the interests of institutions and public organisations. The fact that the two mentioned state education standards for financing institutions and the physical environment and information library provision are at different stages of readiness does not necessarily mean that the rules described in them are not synchronised with each other. In the preparation of draft regulations adopting the standards of art. 22 experts with expertise in various fields and competences shall be involved so as to secure all elements of the public relations subject to the act. The preparation of each of the regulations is a lengthy process, and the work on the individual acts takes place in parallel. During the period of development, the texts for individual acts shall be synchronized to avoid non-compliance and contradiction. In addition, before being presented for public discussion, the draft regulations are submitted through a coordination procedure and the Ministry, whose aim is to prevent inaccuracies again. This is actually one of the regulations that had no analogue before as a legal basis in the Law on People's Education, a new legal act, on the one hand. On the other hand, it does not regulate new public relations insofar as rules on the design of different norms in terms of physical environment have existed so far in the regulation. Honestly, I'm also worried that it's delayed, but I'm more concerned with what policies will be regulated by this standard. These policies are in projection, they find their place in the State Budget Act, of course, but they also relate to other legal documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u119	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Anastasova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u120	Mr. Minister, in the end you said it very well. In fact, my concerns are also such because of this standard and the situations regulated therein follow or do not follow accordingly different activities and actions both within the authority of other institutions and within each institution such as the school, kindergarten or the center for personal development. In this regard, during the last two weeks, the representatives of our parliamentary group in the Committee on Education of the National Assembly, together with fellow MPs, are in many of the municipalities and districts of the country. I was particularly impressed that I have never been to a community before that has a strategy for developing the school network. I don't know if there's such a strategy in Sofia as capital. Why am I saying this? Because part of the municipalities after the entry into force of the Law, they were also obliged, developed rules or criteria, or regulations. Each admission to an educational institution is to a certain extent related to the physical environment. In addition to these municipal strategies, which should have each municipality in my opinion, and should be an act of implementation of these strategies, the same applies to each educational institution. Everyone in the schools was obliged to adopt development strategies. You understand that when such a strategy is being developed, it is also very important to have such a standard of physical environment, so that we can know whether we are increasing reception, are we reducing reception, are we providing full - time training, are we not providing full - time training? In this respect, this standard is related to the filling of the classes and to the footage policy, therefore, from here on, as well as the development of the material base. That's why I really think you should take it seriously. I am pleased with the answer that by the end of this year you intend to complete the development, because I do not see otherwise how to talk about Budget 2018 if we do not have this standard. Not that we can't, but it's good to have it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. A hole? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u122	I thank Mrs. Anastasova for those connections she made. He's really important. Frankly, this option that I saw and which was developed by the Ministry, I did not like in terms of whether it does not solve, or is not related precisely to solving such specific problems as the transition to a single-change regime. I have entrusted colleagues to think of a mechanism for the largest schools, however, so as not to be very hardworking, time-consuming this mechanism for determining capacity, i.e. how many classes a school can generally teach. The fact is that we have over-concentration of children in some schools more than the material environment allows. Otherwise, the norms that we have at the moment will, of course, be reflected in the standard, but in themselves will not improve the material base if we do not have specific mechanisms, as I have told you, and projection in the budget. Otherwise, every year, you know, both through the state budget and through EU funds, funds are invested in improving the material base that needs multiple needs of gyms, sports sites, energy efficiency, heating installations, yard spaces, libraries and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u123	Thank you, dear Minister. A question from the National Representative Alexander Simov concerning a reduction of state in the Regional Educational Administration "Kurdzhali." You have the floor, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u124	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! On 1 September this year in the Regional Education Management in Kardzhali is a reduced number for an expert in Bulgarian language and literature after the insistence of the head of management Grozdan Kolev. The state is being transformed into a position of....jurisconsult. The chief's actions are more than bizarre and inexplicable because there are two states in the establishment plan of his entrusted institution as an expert in natural science, one of which has reached retirement age in March, but is still working. Three more states can be found in the schedule for experts in the organization of secondary education, although there are about 71 principals of schools and five directors of centers for personal development in the district. On the other hand, the teachers in Bulgarian language and literature are over 145 people, but a single state is left behind. For more than 20 years in the district of Kardzhali there have been two experts in Bulgarian language and literature for many reasons..........................of the schools, low level of knowledge of the language and lack of motivation for its mastering. Because of this, my question is: what is the reason for the actions of Mr. Grozdan Kolev and are you behind his decision to reduce the state for experts in Bulgarian language? In the meantime, it became clear that an additional number was given for an expert, but in mother tongue. Do we understand that this will be part of the policy of the Ministry of Education from now on for Kardzhali district? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. Minister Valchev, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u126	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Simov, what you have presented as facts is correct, with the exception of the latter, no additional number has been allocated for an expert in mother tongue. There is an expert on the establishment plan who monitors normal conduct in this direction, but is not from this year. Indeed, the change in the official schedule of the Regional Management of Education in Kardzhali was made on a proposal from Mr. Grozdan Kolev. His motives for these changes relate to the lack of sufficient workload to ensure the employment of two experts in Bulgarian language and literature, such as the fact that the teachers of Bulgarian language and literature and the number of schools in Kardzhali district are reduced compared to previous years. I draw your attention to the fact that there is one state number in the Regional Education Management in Kardzhali for the position of Senior Expert in Bulgarian Language and Literature and at 74 schools in the district, which are four times less than the number of schools in Sofia-City district. Only in the official schedule of the ROU Sofia-city, there are two state figures for this position, and in the other 27 regional education departments in the country the position of Senior Expert in Bulgarian Language and Literature is one state number. This is the reason why we accept the proposal with the so-exposed motives of Mr. Kolev. The disclosure of the position of the Council is related to the need to exercise constant legal control in the implementation of the activities in the Regional Government in order to ensure their legal compatibility with the regulatory framework applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u127	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, it is clear to me that any administrative wording can be found in order to make a similar abbreviation, but in this case the specific specific in Kardzhali is that the removed expert in Bulgarian Ms. Gergana Prlicheva is an extremely famous, prepared expert known in the whole field, but, alas, she is probably a victim of political repression. I'm saying it with that heavy word, because in Kardzhali it's common practice. In other words, what I am not satisfied with your answer is that the administrative vocabulary here is of no use to me. Is there, is there political pressure on such experts, and is such repression being carried out on them? That's what matters in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u129	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. You will not take advantage, Minister, of your right to dodge. The next question is from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev on National Olympics in Geography and Economics. You have the floor, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in accordance with the Regulation on the organisation and conduct of the National Olympics in Geography and Economics, the same Olympiad is held in three age groups: VII class, VIII class, and X class. According to art. 10 of the Programme of measures for the protection of children with prominent gifts from state and municipal schools in 2017 annual scholarships receive only the two age groups, namely VIII, IX class and X............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In addition, according to art. 10 of the Ordinance on conditions and procedures for the protection of children with prominent gifts, scholarships for stimulating children with prominent gifts shall be granted to students from VIII to XII grade, ranked until 18 years of age at national or international competition, Olympiad or competition included in the Programme under art. 11. In practice, the rules do not allow scholarships to receive students from the 7th grade. In this regard, it is my question: is discrimination allowed in relation to this group of students, namely the 7th grade, and if so, what is the reason for this inequality? If there is no discrimination, what is the explanation for such division of students depending on their age? Finally: how much money does the state save by excluding this age group from receiving scholarships, and what measures do you intend to take to eliminate this injustice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u131	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Minister Valchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u132	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tishev, the Regulation on conditions and procedures for the protection of children with prominent gifts is a legal act of the Council of Ministers adopted on the basis of the Law on Child Protection on a proposal of the Minister of Culture, the Minister of Education and Science, the Minister of Youth and Sports and the Chairman of the State Agency for Child Protection. Scholarships under the Ordinance for children with prominent gifts are provided for students from VIII to XII class, ranked until 18 years of age in competitions, competitions and Olympiads, who have proven high criteria when broadcasting the winners. The regulation defines as a right of scholarship the individual expression and ranking of children and students. In the system of Bulgarian education the reception and selection of students in schools of arts, sports schools, profiled and professional high schools is after the completion of the 7th grade. Traditionally and in the legal framework it is envisaged that scholarships should be obtained after the completion of primary education, until the adoption and entry into force of the new educational structure was after the completion of the VIII grade, i.e. for high school students. Now a change is made and the right to receive scholarships is extended, and not only those by the order of this regulation, but also general scholarships for students after the completion of the 7th grade. I mean, from this school year scholarships will get eighth graders as well. This is also related to the fact that these children are not minors and have the opportunity to dispose of funds. The Ministry of Education and Science has initiated changes to the Ordinance relating to the provision of opportunities for students from private schools to receive scholarships on equal terms with students in public and municipal schools. The amendments to the Ordinance will be prepared by an interdepartmental group with representatives of the institutions responsible for the implementation of the Ordinance. The working group will also discuss options for extending the scope of the age groups defined in the Ordinance, which are entitled to a scholarship, so that more children and students can benefit from this opportunity. In this sense, I thank you for the question, because it is timely. The two acts relating to the grant of scholarships are currently under discussion, and this issue can be considered because it is only one class which is not so high in financial terms under this Regulation. In accordance with the Ordinance, a Programme of measures shall be adopted annually by a decree of the Council of Ministers, consisting of three sections of specific events proposed by the Minister of Culture, the Minister of Education and Science and the Minister of Youth and Sport, and in the development of the measures shall comply with those set out in art. 10 of the Ordinance. When including new age groups with fewer students in the Regulation, the changes will be reflected in the development of the Programme with the measures for 2018, and the Programme will be complemented with new events tailored to the age specifics and the opportunities for presentation of children and students. In implementation of the Programme of measures for protection of children with prominent gifts from state and municipal schools in 2017 1 million are envisaged from the state budget. $800,000. BGN, provided that students from all age groups are included while maintaining the scope of the measures. The funds needed to secure the Programme should be increased threefold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u133	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I found out at the end of your reply that you were thinking about extending the scope of the Regulation. Just didn't hear specifically: does this mean that the 7th grade will be included? I want to hear your opinion here because it is normal for the minister to be the change engine in any regulation that concerns his area. And secondly, let me give you a few examples to work in this direction. Keep in mind, I suppose your consultants and advisors have told you that in 2014 parents of children from the 7th grade filed a case in the Commission for Protection against Discrimination on this particular issue. The Commission concludes that not granting a scholarship to children of the 7th grade, who, of course, have prominent gifts and have won prizes, is a form of indirect discrimination by age. The interesting thing is, although the Commission's decision is not mandatory, but recommended, the Council of Ministers appealed this decision before the Administrative Court, but the Administrative Court dismissed the complaint and ruled that, by amending the regulation of the law....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 10 of the Ordinance, the Council of Ministers has imposed an unjustified and unlawful restriction on the right to receive scholarships and students from the 7th grade, which in the Law on Child Protection the legislator did not set. Therefore, my wish and my request is: work in this direction; children cannot be divided by such factors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u135	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. For the duplicate, the word is Minister Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u136	Specifically for these scholarships, specifically for the seventh grade, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u137	The last question to Minister Valchev is from the National Representative Nikolay Boshkov concerning the Center for Personal and Creative Development of Children in Blagoevgrad. You have the floor, Mr. Boshkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! My question to you is provoked by an open letter from the teachers' unions to the CST and to KT Support. Dear Minister, for months there has been a scandal related to the restructuring of the Center for Personal and Creative Development of Children in Blagoevgrad, former ODK and Youth Home. Those working at the Center and the two teachers' unions came out with a general protest letter to the Prime Minister, media and MPs from the region, which is addressed to you as well. The letter points to disturbing facts about financial, document and personnel violations at the Centre. Children's training fees are collected, although the Centre is on a delegated state budget. My question to you is: do you not consider it appropriate to appoint a thorough examination of the Center for Personal and Creative Development of Children in Blagoevgrad to clarify the real situation and to suppress public discontent in the city? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u139	Thank you, dear Mr. Boshkov. Come in for an answer, Minister Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr. Boshkov! The Ministry of Education and Science carried out a check on the signal submitted, which found that the facts and circumstances concerning violations committed at the Centre for Personal Development Support in Blagoevgrad are not true. Under the Preschool and School Education Act, personal development support centres are entitled to their own income, some of which are determined by a regulatory act. In this sense, on the basis of the Ordinance on Administration of Local Taxes and Fees, the decision of the Municipal Council in Blagoevgrad sets out symbolic fees from two to five levs for the persons of the groups in the Center. During the verification, the books and control plans of the Director and Deputy Directors have been provided and verified. It is found that the personnel changes and abbreviations taken were made following checks carried out by the Director and that there were violations regarding the low attendance and in general absence of children in certain groups, which was also due to the conduct of similar activities in the school on the territory of the municipality. The inspection by the Ministry rejected allegations in the signal that the Director of the Centre did not have the necessary pedagogical experience and that no meetings of the Pedagogical Council in the academic year 2016-2017 were held. To improve the work of the Centre for Personal Development Support were made recommendations. One of them is to perform the control activity rhythmically in order to establish in a timely manner the attendance of persons in the groups. In their formation to take into account the number of applications submitted by the parents, while respecting the statutory number of persons in them. The activities shall be carried out only on a basis provided for use and disposal by the Support Centre. A follow-up check of the Centre for Personal Development Support will be carried out for the recommendations made. In the event of detected infringements, the relevant sanctioning actions will be taken in accordance with the pre-school and school education system regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u141	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Boshkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u142	Dear Minister, I must admit, I have learned from you the details of this inspection that has been carried out, as some episodes of this check have come out in Blagoevgrad on some local sites. But I want to focus on another question. Again with a letter that is addressed to you, again by the trade unions of Bulgarian teachers. I'm going to read it so that the coworkers and the public can get acquainted with it. On 26 September 2017 we sent alarming signals of irregularities to the Center for Personal Development of Children from Blagoevgrad and requested financial and documentary verification of the same Center. Without doubt about the expertise of RUO Blagoevgrad, we object to this being done by them. Mr. Ivaylo Zlatanov is Chairman of the Committee on Education, Culture and Religion at the Municipal Council Blagoevgrad and is a municipal councillor from the list of Mayor Atanas Kambitov. This raises doubts about objectivity, as many of what is happening at the Centre is under the dictation of Deputy Mayor Hristina Shopova and with Mr. Zlatanov's silent intervention. Moreover, some of the decisions of the Municipal Council of Blagoevgrad concerning the Center have taken place with the agreement of the Head of RVO as municipal councillor and chairman of the Committee on Education, Culture and Religion of the Municipal Council in Blagoevgrad. Mr. Minister, on behalf of the affected members of the Union of Bulgarian Teachers at the CST, we demand an objective examination by experts from the Ministry of Education in order to avoid suspicions of concealment and mitigation of irregularities and infringements. This letter, I suppose, has come to you. Therefore, Minister, in conclusion, I would like to say that the public in Blagoevgrad is indeed highly scandalous in this case and unfortunately the children of the town suffer. Blagoevgrad, the children who attend these schools at the Center. In order to avoid doubting that the verification is objective, I ask you to appoint a verification by experts from the Ministry of Education to carry out a thorough investigation into the case in this Center and to inform us accordingly from the outcome of this inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u143	Thank you. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary. You refuse. The next question is to the Minister of Interior Mr. Valentin Radev and the first question to him is from the National Representative Dora Ilieva Yankova and Radoslav Ljubchev Stoychev on the preparation of the winter tourist season and the readiness of the regional fire safety services and protection of the population to ensure a calm tourist season. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u144	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Minister, in the last week of September, representatives of the Ministry of Interior, commissioners and chief commissioners said you had plans for 12 district fire services to be dissolved. Medialy, all this was reflected, and certainly announced that the two district services for fire safety and protection of the population in the resort complexes in Pamporovo and Borovets will be dissolved. You know that these are national winter resorts. May God make them all year round. In parallel to this, in the discussion of the experts who launched all of this, they said that from 30 minutes the time will be increased from seven to 12 minutes and all experts will surely and you know that there are 10 first, 10 golden minutes for the intervention of firefighters. In this situation I want to address you. You know that with colleague Stoychev from the communities, from the business, from the local authorities in the two national resorts Pamporovo and Borovets got us serious attention, there was a protest by Pamporovo from the people who offer tourist services that winter time in these resorts gather around eight, ten thousand people. Very. I'm aware of it, and I know the area, and so are you. You know what it means from Smolyan or Chepelare to start a firehouse if there's a toupik, if there's big snows, as we're talking about this winter. In parallel to this, I've been on multiple dates when it was discussed by the tour operators, is there any security, is the Ministry of Interior there? Is there any security for the tourists? Is there any prevention? Is there any medical care? And I want to share that for all the people who live, they realize and so far they realize that the Regional Fire Safety Service is also with that emphasis on protecting the population, which guarantees a peaceful tourist season. Our question with my colleague Radoslav Stoychev is: what also requires such reform? Please inform us. Partners, tour operators, people offering tourist services already have calls that this will affect a serious business sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Yankova, Mr. Stoychev! A minimum number of three employees in a team working on shifts in the services of fire safety and population protection has been established in relation to the change of the regulations regulating fire-fighting and rescue activities in 2015. This requirement shall enter into force as of 1 August 2017. Due to a limitation in the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Interior on the total number of personnel, respectively the number of this main directorate, the restructuring of the services located in the territory of the resort complexes, including those of Pamporovo and Borovets, is required. The incidents on the territory of the services in the last three years are as follows: in Pamporovo, average annual 56 accidents, of which 11 fires, two on the territory of the resort complex; in 33 cases, the operational activities are related to the removal of dangerous objects, usually icy pendants; in 10 road accidents, assistance has been provided to citizens. The annual allowance for salaries and social security is 360 thousand BGN. For Borovets: average annual 36 accidents, of which 9 fires "three" on the territory of the resort complex. Half of the people in trouble are related to the removal of dangerous objects, again icicles, for which the owners of hotel complexes are responsible. The annual alimony here is nearly half a million. As regards the safety of the tourists in the complex, it should be noted that more stringent requirements are laid down for hotels to ensure fire safety than for administrative and other public buildings. This is generally in the whole country. In view of the dynamics of accidents and their nature and the remoteness of the resorts from the settlements, fire safety units are built. The time for the intervention of these units suggests that the operational actions carried out in the Regional Service "Borovets" and "Pamporovo" can be undertaken by other units without affecting the security of the complexes. The regulatory framework enables object owners to hire or build fire safety units. Regardless of the upcoming structural changes, the fire safety in the resorts of Borovets and Pamporovo will be provided. The response time of the structures that will take over the operational intervention in the areas of action of closing governments will be comparable to the response time in many of the country's other locations. For individual settlements it will increase and for others it will be reduced. According to the statistics of the International Association of Firefighters and Saviors, the average European insurance ratio per 1,000 people was 0.68. With regard to this indicator, Bulgaria occupies eighth place with a 1.02-to-double ratio, which is above the European average. As of October 2017, 2 900 volunteers were registered on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. That makes 0.4 volunteers per 1,000 people. According to this indicator Bulgaria is 20th among European countries and with much lower indicators compared to the average European 4.45. The obligations arising from the Law on the Protection of Disasters, as well as the statistics of the International Association of Firefighters, which I mentioned, clearly outline the structure of the system for protection against fires, disasters and emergencies in Bulgaria. It is not like that and we are doing everything we can to make it as the average European indicators are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u147	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! It's a clerical response! Citizen with statistics, with data. I wanted to hear from you the attitude of a member of the cabinet Borisov 3 with care of the country's holding and with an admission to a winter industry related to winter tourism for two national resorts. You know what people say? A blow to the back of winter tourism by the government! And if with three stats this winter you're gonna save some money, you're gonna do something, and if that regulation that's in your hands, it's the panacea to give instability to these winter resorts, a big mistake! It's a huge mistake! I remember 2015. Asking the same snows are expected, how to block the resort, how to block the area? Then I'll ask you. But once you've decided, I'm addressing everyone in the industry to know that the government is responsible for the security and guarantees the safety of the two winter resorts. If, God forbid, anything happens, I will ask you again from this tribune on behalf of all these people. We need to guarantee seasonal winter tourism, and in the end you have been made a bureaucratic exposé that does not suit the Minister of Interior, a member of the cabinet, a political person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u149	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Here's your coat, Minister Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u150	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Yankova, Mr. Stoychev! Of course it's a bureaucratic answer. In three minutes, I can answer that. Of course, I can give you much more information and I'll tell you something else, if you want, something more heartfelt. We don't just take care of Pamporovo and Borovets. What has been done is suggested by professional leadership. They have decided and have not decided because they do not like Borovets or Pamporovo. On the contrary, there are many things that are written in the criteria, there is a mathematical model according to which it is viewed what can be done in the whole country and where can be reduced either in this case made redundant and moved, for example, to Smolyan Fire Departments, and not to be in the territory of Pamporovo. This has not just been done and there is no way you can know it, nor can citizens know that. That's what professionals know, and we have to trust them. As you ask me, why Pamporovo, why Borovets, why is one in Smiddle Seven, eight or ten objects?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u151	Twelve.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u152	Twelve, yes. There's a report, we'll post it on the website. It's not a secret. Okay, what do we tell the other citizens?! I'm sorry, this regulation came from the National Assembly, I didn't invent it. It's been discussed here for two years. And you've obliged us to be three instead of two. And we're doing it. If I ask you now, will you give more money for the Fire Department, i.e. the Ministry of Interior? You will say: "Yes, we will discuss the budget, and we will see. " That is, we solve the problems under certain restrictions and decide in my opinion the right thing to do. The pros in the country are in this department. And they made the right decision, believe me. They, through me, try to both you and the citizens to convince that the solution is right and no one will be harmed by this shifting of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u153	Thank you, dear Minister. Second question from the MPs Violeta Zheleva and Nikola Dinkov about the difficult road situation of the highway "Maritsa" in the section from the town of Svilengrad to the border crossing. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! The border is one of the busiest passengers in Europe and the number of cargoes passing through it, which is why the problems with road traffic at the Bulgarian-Turkish border are quite common. This is also evident from the reports of the press centre of the Ministry of Interior. Strengthened border control is extremely important, and it should not be lowered. The difficulties in the crossing mode create tension and form tails that are sometimes over 10 km. Cargo cars occupy the speed lane of the highway and this creates these queues and a prerequisite for road accidents. A solution to one of the problems and, in our opinion, the biggest one can be found if a parking lot is built on which trucks wait and pass through the crossing point when they are called in the established order. This is a topic that has been repeatedly commented. The relief of traffic is necessary because this border point is among the main ones for crossing the Bulgarian border. It is part of the trade between Turkey, on the one hand, and the countries of the European Union, on the other. In this regard, our question to you is: what measures will the government take to improve the situation around the border point and to solve this long-standing problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u155	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u156	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Jeleva, Mr. Dinkov! The border crossing is the busiest on the Bulgarian-Turkish border, as well as on the country's external borders, undoubtedly. Difficulties in crossing and the formation of columns on both sides of the border point are caused by various reasons related to the annual growth of passing road vehicles, passengers, measures for increased border control, increased migration pressure, terrorist acts in Paris, you know in 2014, and others. At this point, Captain Andreevo, the border control activity is carried out by both the authorities of the Ministry of Interior in the face of the Border Police and by the competent authorities of the other departments of the mandatory border control according to the Border Crossing Posts Ordinance. Different types of border controls require technological time to check the persons, the road vehicles, the goods, the goods, the goods passing through the border point. It should be noted that as a result of the estimates made at the point, the average time required to carry out the border inspection of employees and there is about three minutes. Intensive traffic leads to a daily high load at the border point, an increase in waiting time and in certain periods to the accumulation of cargo and passenger car columns. Between 2000 and 3000 trucks pass through this border point on a daily basis. The approach to the point of Captain Andreevo is carried out through the highway of Maritsa. There is a road node that divides the country's exit of road vehicles into two streams of cars, vans and buses, the second truck. The road route is built technologically so that trucks need to be converted into the left lane to be able to enter the road node. In the case of intensive traffic and delay of traffic through the border crossing, practical goods vehicles stay in the lane at the left, I stress, for traffic on the highway. To regulate the flow of these vehicles in order to prevent crashes there are constant orders of the road police, according to the capabilities of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Haskovo. It should be stressed that the problem with the organisation of the movement of the road section, before entering the checkpoint, is repeatedly addressed at a number of intergovernmental meetings and meetings. Various options have been offered for the solution, including the construction of parking lots on the highway, which are in the right-hand lane, in the speed lane, on the right-hand side, with capacity to pass and wait for trucks crossing the border. On 10 October 2017, a regular meeting of the Interdepartmental Border Control Board was held, which I chair. On the agenda of the meeting was included the examination of exactly the measures needed to ease traffic through the country's border point As a possible option is discussed the issue of building a car parking lot in the Svilengrad section to "Captain Andreevo." According to information from Haskovo's regional governor, who is present, the district administration is in the process of searching for a terrain to build such a TIR parking lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u157	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Dinkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! You have told about the problems he has at the Border Post Captain Andreevo. I will not dwell on the problems that are also in the customs of Captain Andreevo, where because of the reduced composition of the examiners or because of technical problems the movement through the point is sometimes delayed. The more important issue is.. anyway, for various reasons, traffic jams and queues will be there. Sometimes they reach 15 kilometers. Your operating groups, which are on the highway, know that the problems are very big and the conditions for crashes are obvious. I think you should insist on solving three infrastructure problems. One of you said that it was building a parking lot together with Svilengrad Municipality, together with the state to process and launch in a certain order the trucks so that there are no queues on the speed lane. Secondly, during the construction of the highway was saved and the third emergency lane was not built. If this third emergency tape had been built, the tail situation would have been different. I think there should be a solution for that, too. The third question that you need to pay attention to and which you need to put to an interagency review of the Interdepartmental Commission is the lighting of the road nodes in Svilengrad and for the checkpoint.Captain Petko Voyvoda with Greece, as the queues sometimes pass this road node. If these three problems in the next two or three years are not solved, the problems with the queues for the population and for road accidents will remain unresolved and the threat will always be for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u159	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. Minister Radev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Dinkov! This is where it is, and it's nice of you to ask. The MPs ask the Minister and he has to explain what he's doing. I agree, it was the same for Mrs. Yankova. Not with protests from firefighters, in this case, not with protests maybe from some others. This is the place, this is where I explain myself, and I have to explain what the Ministry is doing. You said some solution. If you'd asked me about it, I'd probably tell you about the lights. You mentioned the highway if you had made a third lane. Yeah, but imagine there was no highway. Now we've found a solution. The Interdepartmental Commission experts, I think, were the most competent. These were all the Deputy Ministers, including the President of Customs. We were all discussing exactly how to make these parking lots. How the district manager, because it's his job to find ways, appropriate terrains, to be alienated or whatever procedures they need to do, that's the solution at the moment. There's a highway with two sails. Yeah, we need to take this step too. You're both right, of course. There is such a thing, there is such a problem. By the way, there is a similar problem on the other border of the Tower. And that's where we make the freeway. That's where we'll be careful with the third lane. Thank you for your question. I answer you this way, and I think we're pretty much thinking the same thing. And you said what I said, and I added some small things, other things. I can add more, but time won't let me talk anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u161	Thank you, dear Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the questions asked to Boyl Banov, Minister of Culture. The first question is from the national representative Nikolay Tishev on a competition for the appointment of the director of the State Opera Burgas. You have the floor, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! In connection with the competition for director of the Burgas Opera on my reception day, her employees complained about the low artistic level of this institution. Since the current director is a candidate again, there are facts about the operation of the opera that raise concern. All external soloists are appointed to state with 900 leva. salary by gastrolying very rarely in Burgas. At the same time, the Burgas footage has the lowest salaries of all opera theatres in the country - BGN 470, i.e. close to the minimum wage. The staff of the opera is reduced to an operatic one, composed of self-deeds and staffs. This is in the words, of course, of the mourners. Seven years in a row in the opera are the same soloists, which raises the issue of the relationship between the management of the opera and these soloists, and so on. My question to you is: are you familiar with the actual situation in the State Opera Burgas? Do you feel it necessary to carry out a check or revision of this Guide in relation to the above signals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u163	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Minister Banov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u164	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tishev, in relation to your question, I am informing you of the following. The Ministry of Culture annually conducts monitoring and comprehensive assessment of the activities of state cultural institutes in the field of performing arts. The assessment shall take into account management activities, financial efficiency of production, management of the material base, artistic policy of the cultural institutes and their presence in the community. In accordance with art. 23b, t. 3 of the Law on the Protection and Development of Culture, the state and cultural institutes operating in the field of performing arts shall implement a delegated budget system which allows the Director of the Cultural Institute to dispose of the funds of the Institute on its own, to make compensated changes to the revenue and expenditure established by its budget, informing the Ministry of Culture thereof; to determine the number of staff and remuneration of employees and workers in compliance with the standards laid down in the relevant regulations. The specific activity of the state operas, suggesting a state number of not less than 200 people organized in different units, including orchestra, choir, ballet, soloists, technical service and administration in the field of musical and performance arts, employed in artistic and creative groups with higher education. Most importantly, at the end of September 2017, a planned inspection was carried out by the Internal Audit Unit of the Ministry of Culture. A preliminary report has been prepared to be submitted to me and I will introduce you, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u165	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Tishev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the fact that the delegated budgets act in the system of state theaters still means that the Ministry has the ability to control the directors of these theaters. What you are saying, namely that a September month has been audited, proves it. However, I was hoping that in between asking my question and your answer, you would have done some sort of partial verification of whether the data they reported to me and I had asked you a question corresponded to the truth. If so, what measures will you take? However, as far as I understand it, within a week or ten days you will have this preliminary report and I would ask you to provide it in some form so that I may also meet, and for the citizens of Burgas it will be interesting even more when there is some tension in this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u167	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Here you go, Minister Banov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u168	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Tishev, just to say that I cannot share that there is tension in the institution. The signals that are to you are probably being checked during the inspection itself, but I can't say there's tension. There's even a contest there, if I'm not mistaken, and there was only one candidate. Of course, I'll keep you informed of the outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u169	Thank you, dear Minister. We are going to ask the National Representative Nona Yotova about the funds coming into the National Fund of Culture, according to art. 31, para. 1 of the Law on Protection and Development of Culture. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Yotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in the activity reports of the National Fund of Culture for the period 2014 - 2016 there is a drastic reduction of the revenue coming into the Fund on the grounds set out in art. 31, para. 1 of the Law on Protection and Development of Culture, namely: from 54 672 BGN in 2014 at BGN 1640 In 2016 the Commission adopted a decision to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaty'). This legal norm contains 14 sources of fundraising in the Fund. We are talking about proceeds collected from fines and property penalties; from fees paid for services carried out by cultural institutes; income from rents, including annual target subsidy, translated on the basis of § 32 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Gambling Act. 1 from 2014 My question in this regard is: what funds as size were collected in 2016 on each of the grounds set out in art. 31, para. 1 of the Law on the Protection and Development of Culture, including according to the above-mentioned norm of the Law on Gambling, and what are the reasons in the National Fund for Culture to be so small in 2016? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u171	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yotova. Minister Banov, you have 5 minutes. for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Yotova, in relation to your question, I am providing you with the following information. With the amount of funds actually taken into account by the relevant cultural institutes and on the basis of a decree of the Council of Ministers for each budget year, an adjustment towards an increase in the budget of the National Fund is made. For 2016 with Decree of the Council of Ministers No 361 of 16 December 2016 the correction is 65 723 BGN. and is on the following grounds: - on the grounds of art. 31, para. 1, t. 1 - 50 per cent of the fines under art. 98c, para. 2 of the Law on copyright and related rights penal decrees; - from the Central Administration of the Ministry of Culture were collected BGN 31 649.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - on the grounds of art. 31, para. 1, t. 3 amounts under art. 33 sentence first of the Copyright and Related Rights Act, exercising of rights in the absence of successors from the Central Administration of the Ministry of Culture were collected 8421 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - on the grounds of art. 31, para. 1, t. 10 - 50 per cent of the proceeds from the fees under art. 4, para. 2, p. 4 of the Law on Protection and Development of Culture the state fees for performing services and for issuing documents and duplicates in sizes determined by the tariff of the Council of Ministers were collected BGN 19 635 as follows: from the National Gallery... 8630 BGN.; National Museum of History - BGN 9585, and from house-museum - Pancho Vladigerov - BGN 1420 During the period quoted in the budget of the National Fund of Culture and other sources referred to above, no other funds included in the scope of art. 31, para. 1 of the Law on Protection and Development of Culture, including on the basis of the order of art. 31, para. 1, t. 15 Other sources defined by law or act of the Council of Ministers. I mean, I see some difference in the numbers that you and I have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u173	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Yotova? You don't have a line. This ended the questions to the Minister of Culture Boel Banov. Due to the continued meeting of the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova with the representatives of the European Commission and the European Parliament, there will be no opportunity to answer the question of the National Representative Dora Yankova, which I informed her about. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u174	Mr. President, I am very understanding with the Minister that today it is obviously important for the European Commissioner to promote the policy of the Bulgarian government, but my request to you next week is that the minister can be drawn into the first lines of responsibility, as the people of the Rhodopes, especially in the Baths, are waiting to hear whether the Davidov Rudic field will have a perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u175	Of course. Thank you, Mrs. Yankova, for understanding. I will come into communication with Minister Petkova and we will try to fulfill your wish. As for the question, which raised again in the manner of keeping the national representative Tasco Ermenkov, in relation to a question which he has together with the MP Ivan Genov, to Minister Petkova on equipment for NPP "Belene" and on which a written answer is to be prepared, the question was by 6 October 2017, Friday, until 18:00 the letter of Minister Petkova to postpone by 7 days on the grounds of art. 96, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly arrived on 6 October 2017, Friday. supposed, which is why it was not announced in the Chamber and was not uploaded on the National Assembly's website, as this was done the previous day, as you know, on Thursday, 5 October 2017, until 18:00. The answer to the question has been postponed to 13 October 2017, today, until 18:00 Minister Petkova is not in a fun time for the answer to the question. We have received information from Minister Petkova that the answer has already been prepared and will be registered today in the Ministry of National Assembly. Due to the exhaustion of the issues envisaged for today's parliamentary control, I am closing the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-13.u176	The next meeting is Tuesday, 17 October 2017, at 14.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
