ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u1	Good morning, fellow Members, please take your seats! We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Members of Parliament, on a proposal from the Conference of Presidents, I propose that it be adopted on the basis of art. 74 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the following decision, the National Assembly did not hold a plenary session on 15 September 2017. This will take place on 19 September 2017, Tuesday, with a programme identical to the one that would have been if the meeting were held on 15 September. In any case, parliamentary control will be included for three hours, and in view of what will be like completion by the parliamentary committees today, tomorrow I will propose to your attention a specific programme to be put to the vote. Please vote on the proposal not to hold a plenary session on 15 September 2017. The decision is a proposal of the Conference of Presidents and has been adopted unanimously. Vote 187 MPs: 183 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I would like to offer your attention a Project for the National Assembly's Work Programme for 13 and 14 September 2017. We have a proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. 53, para. 8 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, namely the first vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Food. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It will be debated without being put to the vote. The second item is voted on. We propose a first vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 14 July 2017. We propose a second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, a joint draft prepared by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the basis of the laws adopted on the first vote on 19 July 2017 with importers: Boris Yachev and a group of MPs on 15 June 2017, as well as Stanislav Ivanov on 30 June 2017. The fourth item is the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2017. The fifth item of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Environmental Protection, adopted by the National Assembly on 27 July 2017, submitted for a new discussion with Decree No 175 of 7 August 2017 to the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. We propose that this be the first item for Thursday, 14 September 2017. Please vote. Vote 188 MPs: 166, against 5, abstention 17. Our work programme for 13 and 14 September 2017 has been adopted. People's representative Rumen Georgiev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal that item two on the agenda for today's agenda will be the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Local Taxes and Fees Act to become item two for tomorrow. Mr. Chairman, I will give you the agenda of the Committee on the Environment, where today, at 2:30 p.m., we will be watching this bill. It is logical to first pass through committees the bills and then look at each other in the Chamber. How is it that today we will take attitude without having an opinion of the Minister of Environment on this bill?! That's why I'm making the procedural proposal. It is clear that you want two or three times to increase the waste charge is a financial but also an environmental process.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u3	Thank you. You're suggesting a dot shift, are you?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u4	Of course, we haven't seen it on the Commission yet. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u5	One more procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms proposes that item two of the agenda be dropped at all. Our motive for this is that, first of all, the bill is allocated to committees, and only the Budget Committee has only an opinion on this issue. The other committees will sit today or continue with the debate from previous meetings. That's one of the motives. The other motive is that the National Association of Municipalities do not have a strong opinion on the issue and needs a debate on the issue so that there is no confusion in the municipalities, honourable Members. It is precisely because of these motives that we propose that this point should be dropped and entered into other meetings of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by MP Tanner Ali for dropping point two of the proposed Programme. Please vote. Vote 204 MPs: 92 against 94, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Rumen Georgiev, point 2, to become point 3. Isn't that what the offer was? Point two becomes point two for tomorrow. [[Noise and lines.]] Please vote on the proposal so made. [[Heckling]] The proposal is t. The Council of Ministers shall, on 14 July 2017, issue a vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, to be published in the Official Journal of the European Union by the Council of Ministers on 14 July 2017. 2 tomorrow, 14 September 2017. We are voting on this proposal made by the MP Rumen Georgiev. Vote 204 MPs: 92 against 99, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. Messages. Laws and draft decisions for the period 6-12 September 2017. On 8 September 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds was adopted. The representatives of the National Assembly are Ivelina Vassileva, Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, and to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 8 September 2017, a draft decision was received in connection with the debates on inquiry, No 754-05-33 of 13 July 2017, by the Members of the National Assembly. Bachvarova, Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the creation of order in the land relations. The people's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs are importing. On 12 September 2017, an Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. On 8 September 2017, the National Assembly received an Opinion of the Fiscal Council on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act. It is published on the Council's website on the Internet. By letter, the President of the National Assembly has sent the opinion to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, as well as to the Members of the National Assembly. On 8 September 2017 the National Statistical Institute of the National Assembly received information about the index of turnover in Section. Retail trade without car and motorcycle trading in July 2017, indexes of industrial production in July 2017, and indexes of construction production in July 2017. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We move on to the proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE Law ON FOODS. It was submitted to the National Assembly under No 754-01-7 on 18 May 2017. The people's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs are the contributors. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. The President of the Commission has the floor. "The People's Representative Petar Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u8	♪ I can't believe under the Law amending and supplementing the Food Act No 754-01-7, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 18 May 2017. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 28 June 2017 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Food Act, No 754-01-7, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 18 May 2017. The meeting was attended by: - Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests: Dr. Dimitar Dimitrov and Dr. Rosen Baev - Ministry of Economy: Silvia Ljubenova "Director of the Department of Technology Harmonization and Consumer Policy", Boncho Bonchev. Head of Department of the Department of Technology Harmonization and Consumer Policy, Tsveta Dimitrova. Head of Department of the Directorate of Registering, licensing and control, and Gergana Slavova - Commission for Protection of Competition: Theodor Georgiev Director of the Department of Law and Competition Policy'; - Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria: Mr. Nikolay Daskalov. The bill was presented by the MP Dragomir Stoinev. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to ensure the interest of Bulgarian farmers on the Bulgarian market, the introduction of new requirements in the use of the concept of Bulgarian. The application of the Law is a commercial establishment or retail chain which has an annual turnover of more than 2 million. lv. Part of the production is proposed to be formed by a minimum of Bulgarian products, which are distributed by groups as follows: fresh fruits and vegetables - 51%; milk and milk products - 70%; meat and meat products, excluding chicken - 25%; meat and meat products, chicken - 50%; wine and drinks - 75%. The proposed regulation gives Bulgarian producers an equal chance before food importers, much of which are produced in countries with significantly higher subsidies. In case of non-compliance with the obligation to provide Bulgarian products, the penalty shall be up to 10 per cent of the annual turnover of the products of the group in respect of which the default is due. The amounts collected from the sanctions are proposed to enter the State Fund of Agriculture and to be used to support the production of local agricultural products. In its opinion, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall inform the Members of the National Assembly that a draft of a new Food Act has been developed which is in the process of notification. The comments from the European Commission and the Member States are expected. With regard to this Draft Law, it contains provisions already laid down in European Union law. Member States shall not adopt or maintain national measures which create obstacles to the free movement of goods, including no discrimination against food from other Member States. In relation to the proposal for a target nature of budget revenue from sanctions, it contradicts the Public Finance Act. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry proposes that the Bill be notified to the European Commission under Directive (EU) 2015/1535. The Ministry of Economy, giving specific comments on the individual paragraphs, summarises that there are some serious indications of a possible contradiction between the presented bill and the rules of competition. It would therefore be correct to send the bill to the Commission for Protection of Competition. The Commission for Protection of Competition by Decision No 228/28.02.2017 gives an opinion on the draft Law submitted to the previous National Assembly. In its conclusion, the Commission is clear that the Bill restricts competition to several aspects. The regulation creates geographical barriers for the free movement of goods, which is associated with the risk of leaving the market of some foreign suppliers, including may lead to the removal of products that are not interchangeable with Bulgarian. All of this is related to the limited choice of consumers, higher prices, risk of shortage of goods due to a shortage of Bulgarian goods to cover the minimum risk percentage of poor products. Furthermore, the provisions not only put the Bulgarians in a privileged position against foreign suppliers, but also the small ones against the large retailers. The market economy is based on an interaction between demand and supply, which is why natural market mechanisms, rather than regulations, would create a supply that would satisfy counter-question. Supporting Bulgarian producers should be carried out through measures that do not restrict competition and comply with the State aid rules. A preliminary impact assessment has been applied to the Bill. In the subsequent discussion the representatives of the institutions defended their written opinions. The MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) expressed their opinion on the need to adopt adequate measures for the protection of Bulgarian producers. The produced agricultural goods in the old member states are subject to double the subsidies, making them more competitive and placing Bulgarian goods in an uneven position. In addition, other countries of the European Union, such as France, Italy, Romania and Hungary, have found a way of applying different protectionist measures to their goods. A decision was made, regardless of the outcome of the vote, to send the bill for notification to the European Commission. After the end of the discussion and vote with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly not to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Food Act, No 754-01-7, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 18 May 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Will there be a presentation of motives to the Bill? Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At your attention, we are proposing amendments to the Food Act. I believe that the discussion of this Bill will enable Bulgarian citizens to really see what this is about and to pay attention to the problems that have been formed in the last at least 2000 years, 2017 on the Bulgarian market. The proposed changes are a reaction precisely to these changes, which I would like to emphasise, I would like to recall. Perhaps not all of you are aware of the state of trade and food chains in the country, but what is it about? Firstly, the Russian embargo has led to permanent accommodation on the agricultural and processed produce market by the European Union, which is much more subsidized. In the countries of the European Union, the subsidies for farmers are 1.5 times higher than those in Bulgaria. Here, aside from VAT, which is 20% in the country, you mean that we cannot be competitive on what the Bulgarian market is flooded with on the basis of precisely this embargo. It continues at the moment, and is therefore one of the reasons for a lasting increase in the import of agricultural and processed products on the Bulgarian market. The second.. negotiations with Ukraine on accession to the European Union. In 2016 the quotas for duty-free imports of foodstuffs have increased many times, including in 2016. I do not know if you have followed a drama with imports of milk from Ukraine when the European Commission subsequently banned these imports due to the content of substances that are harmful to health, but already there have been such imports in Bulgaria and the products concerned. This trend in the coming years will also continue because the main consumer of this duty-free imports from Ukraine, given the transport costs, turns out to be Bulgaria. Thirdly, as the common agricultural policy has changed since 2016, Bulgarian farmers receive a subsidy for tied support. In other words, these are European funds which they must have produced as support funds, and it must also be realised on the market. Agree that, on the one hand, we want the grey sector to disappear in the economy at all, we want farmers to realise their production, and we do not provide equal access to the market. If this trend continues 2017, 2018, the tied support will have no meaning, the European funds will accordingly be lost, for the simple reason that these Bulgarian farmers are not able to reach the market and realise their production in a way that will accordingly create prerequisites to be sustainable on the market. Now in Sofia you see farmers' markets. Last year the 28 farmers' markets in Sofia are a little more. I hear now that these days there will be a farmer's market in Sofia. Excuse me, we're starting to teach the kids from the first year to recognize milk on a farmer's market, because there's no other way they can do that. This seems murderous to me for a country that is a traditional producer of almost all agricultural goods and products. The fourth reason is the double standard of food. However we deny it, whatever analyses are done, there is a double standard in food and it is not for the benefit of Bulgarian consumers. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, without knowing what methodology and how it did its research. Establish price differences, some minor deviations from standards in other countries, but countries like Slovakia, Hungary still did research and showed that the double standard exists. We cannot catch it because in Bulgaria goods from the European Union, goods from third countries come with certificates. These certificates are documented only by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. There is absolutely no control in terms of physical control and laboratory research on what is available on the market. The fifth reason, which has become particularly up-to-date in the last one or two months, has become the issue of food safety. The contaminated eggs with fipronil, egg powder without documents, and with documents, everything at first glance seems perfect, but in practice it turns out that there is a problem precisely with food safety. When traditional products are produced in Bulgaria, when processed, control is not only documentary, it is physical and can be guaranteed safety, and quality is a topic that every Bulgarian consumer can appreciate, given that in recent years the demand for Bulgarian products is increasing. On the basis of these objective reasons, others will probably be added to this list in 2017. There is a need for regulations on the retail market of food products to enable Bulgarian producers and processors to have ease of access, as well as to satisfy the needs of Bulgarian consumers, who definitely believe that they have an interest in what is produced in Bulgaria and to consume what is produced in Bulgaria. What do we suggest? First, with regard to labelling requirements, we propose that, when using the concept of "Bulgarian" for any product, the raw material which is put into the production of this product should be from Bulgaria. In all other cases, when the label does not write a Bulgarian product, it is produced in Bulgaria and meets the requirements of the Law. We believe that in this way, with the indication of the origin of the raw material, we create enough good protections and motivate the processors to really address the Bulgarian producers. Regulation on payment deadlines shall be introduced and the payment period shall be reduced to 10 working days in respect of perishable goods. The aim is to maximise payment time, thereby ensuring higher financial stability for farmers and processing enterprises. A key point in the bill is the introduction of a requirement for presence on the Bulgarian food market. The regulation is without prejudice to small traders, small shops and specialized boutiques for food trade. The focus is on retail outlets with an annual turnover of more than 2 million. lv. In these sites should be provided certain quantities produced in the country traditional products for Bulgaria. The requirement for minimum demand is laid down the presence of the goods and for wine and spirits from the range. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that the notion of the property is defined as the quantity of goods and products that are present at the relevant time on the market in the relevant commercial establishment. For fresh fruit and vegetables covered by the European Union support scheme, the minimum presence shall be 51% and shall be for traditional ones. The list of products is published in a regulation of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and is related to the support in 2016 The proposed change gives Bulgarian producers an equal chance to import food importers, much of which, as has already been understood, have much greater opportunities to be present on the Bulgarian market and are financially much stronger. With regard to sanctions, the proposed amendments impose a new approach which is as fair as possible. In the event of non-compliance with the obligations to provide Bulgarian products to the person registering and operating in the commercial premises, a penalty of 10 per cent of the annual turnover of the products of the group in respect of which that non-compliance has been established shall be imposed. A new time is also the re-allocation mechanism which determines the amount of sanctions collected to be entered into the budget of the State Fund................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. My fellow Members, I will probably speak further during the debate, but I would like to tell you that in all the estimates that have been made in discussions with representatives of different industry organisations, these proportions for the presence of Bulgarian traditional products are based on objective information that everyone can find on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Agrostatistics is the official representative for what Bulgaria produces, what trade takes place and what the consumption of the products concerned is. The indicators we bet in the Law are fully feasible and can be applied. We propose this to happen from 2018, when the year starts, so that it is possible to conclude contracts with the Bulgarian producer and to ensure this minimum, which is provided for in the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u11	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. Honourable Members, we are proceeding to the debates on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Food Act. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to take part in this? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, prof. Bachvarova made clear our proposals. I will focus on this issue purely politically, as it is state-owned. We are very great advocates of defending that once you see it, competitiveness, the Community framework, the proposal is unacceptable and violates the European legal framework. I will read you the motives of one of the employers' organizations: The proposed provision introduces an obligation to supply a certain percentage of goods by Bulgarian companies in large chains. Such a norm is contrary to art. 34 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We are very concerned about protecting European goods. I will just give you an example that in Romania, in Hungary, in Austria, they have adopted such safeguard measures, despite our concerns that we will break the Community framework. Even in Austria during the season of fruit and vegetables is somewhat even prohibited imports. With our proposals, we will protect our farmers in terms of promoting their stimulus for development and for new farmers so that young farmers can participate in agriculture with such protection from the state. If we're so concerned, it's good to send a letter on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture why the subsidies for Western farmers, as Professor said. Bachvarova, are 1.5 times higher?! Isn't that a distortion of competitiveness?! A Polish egg producer can have additional funding and our egg producers can't! Let's take a more stately look at our proposals. Let us protect our own production, our farmers and not be so big Europeans in the protection of the Community framework. I graduated. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u13	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u14	Colleagues, I will try briefly to motivate you to support this proposal at first reading. The law is not ideal, it is subject to very serious debates. The law is good to be adopted at first reading, but then to wait for the great Food Act of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Council of Ministers. I would like to reassure my fellow Members that notification cannot be made further, although we have taken such a decision in the Commission. In addition, we received a letter from the Ministry of Economy that notification can only be made to acts and laws, proposals of ministries, offices, but not to a group of MPs. The problem remains open. I'm just gonna go for a few points. First of all, you remember, two years ago thanks to a consensus we reached here on the left, on the right, and the center for the so-called Chains Act, I see Delyan Dobrev is going on, then we managed to negotiate with him after four Parliaments failed to make this Law, and after some very balanced negotiations we managed to accept it. What was the result? Then we were convinced that once we adopted the Chains Act, prices would rise first. Nothing like that happened, prices fell. Then they convinced us that the chains would escape from Bulgaria. Nothing like this happened, a chain of Bulgarian Serb participation went bankrupt. You know who I'm talking about. Everyone else is in profit. Moreover, at the time I requested and presented information on the balance sheet of the first ten chains in Bulgaria. 4 years ago, I don't remember, it turned out that out of the ten first chains only three published their balance sheets, and of the rest are at a loss. The results of last year are completely different, the chains are profitable, and not small at all. The problem is that countries such as France, Italy, Hungary, Romania, come on, Hungary and Romania are proverbial, we will not comment on them, but the old Member States of the European Community have found a way to protect their interests. I will not go back with everything I say about Svetla Bachvarova and the double standard. There's a double standard. The Ministry got tangled up, the politicians got tangled up, there's standard, there's no standard. There's a double standard! If the European Commission has decided to set up a special working group for double standards, then it has it. I will not comment on the subject of food harm. I will not comment on the subject of subsidies in agriculture. I think there is no one in this Chamber who has participated in these negotiations in the pre-accession period of our country, but it is a fact that Bulgarian agricultural goods are hardly competitive in the Western given the large subsidies there. For the double standard. I'm not going to comment, but I want to ask you one more time that we need to find a solution. You know, before with great distrust, we accepted our proposal for a ZID of the Competition Act. By the way, for the first time this topic was raised by Ivan Kostov in the 40th Parliament, I remember from right here about the lawlessness of some of the retail chains in Bulgaria. You see, after three parliament, things have found a solution. We must look for it, and I ask you, I urge you, to support it at first reading, and between first and second reading, united with the other, great Food Law, to find a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u15	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Any other MPs for a statement? Are there any other parliamentary groups to alternate? Here's your colleague from the DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I don't think there's anyone in this room who doesn't agree with everything the coworkers have to say about it. The question being asked is very complicated. It was not discussed for a very long time, for which I congratulate my colleagues for at least taking the first step on this problem. I think there are no people in this room who will say: "We do not want to encourage Bulgarian production. I think there are no people who will say, "We do not want to control the quality and safety of food." I think that there are no people who will say: "We do not want Bulgarian goods in the Bulgarian chains. So what is in the spirit and philosophy of this Law, I personally accept it. Colleagues, agree, the instruments and methods that are laid down in it are not exactly such. I think the Law should be supported at first reading. As said by colleague Kanev, already united with the other, parallel the moving Law of the Council of Ministers and of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, I think that from the two laws between first and second reading a good law will be born, which will protect Bulgarian production and indeed the Bulgarian consumer will consume Bulgarian goods. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u17	Thank you, Mr. Abase. Here you go, Mr. Topchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What is involved in this Law? Bulgarian goods to be offered on the Bulgarian market. There's no problem at all. We are not affecting the movement of goods in Europe. Bulgarian goods on the Bulgarian market! Nothing more. I understand that the management's tactic is to...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u19	He's not here now?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u20	There is, but we don't forbid it. The tactics of the government are such that if this Law is proposed by the BSP, it should not be accepted. Please protect the Bulgarian producers. They are both yours and our constituents. Protect them! Support the Law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u21	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u22	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I listened to the colleague, indeed he is right. The Bulgarian should be supported! But I mean, not everything you're talking about right now is exactly the same, because there are a lot of contradictions in this Law. First of all, the Law will not achieve the desired goals to support the Bulgarian production, but on the contrary it introduces a restriction on the choice of the consumer. All this is also related to a number of adverse consequences for consumers, such as limited choice, the risk of a shortage of Bulgarian goods, thereby covering the minimum risk percentage of poor products, contrary to the reasons for the health of citizens. Secondly, the regulation provided for in the Draft Law on the introduction of obligations of food trading sites with an annual turnover of more than BGN 2 million.. part of the quantities of the products offered to be produced in Bulgaria cannot in practice be applied due to the inability to control, lack and impossible regulatory regulation which commodity is Bulgarian given the introduction of many components in the final product....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The instrument for support of Bulgarian production should be in a form that increases the competitiveness of the Bulgarian manufacturer so that the consumer can in his own conviction make an informed choice of purchase in the respective offering site. There are also proposals in this Law which are unacceptable and are in violation of the European legal framework. The colleague said that about art. 44 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, namely the free movement and supply of goods within the European Union between Member States. It is unacceptable to impose clauses contrary to common law in national law. This is confirmed by the negative opinions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the Commission's opinions on consumer protection and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry are negative. I don't know who you've coordinated it with, but that's true. At the same time, the introduction of quotas leads to a fall in the hypothesis of Directive 2015/1535 and before considering the rules, they must be notified. The examination of this Bill in this House is also in violation of European legislation, as it has not been notified. Given these motives, and not only these, my proposal is that this Law cannot be passed because there are many violations of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u23	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Are there any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Stoynev. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stankov! The fact that Bulgarian goods are offered to you means that it is of worse quality. For us, the BSP is the opposite. We take care of Bulgarian producers. Maybe you see these double standards that are in Europe that are proven and you tolerate them. We BSP can't tolerate them. It is important for us to have more Bulgarian products. That means... Where do you see... First of all, I don't understand how products are going to disappear. On the contrary, nothing disappears! There's an offer, it's there right now. We also want, in order to protect Bulgarian consumers, to have greater awareness. For example, what does Bulgarian cheese mean? That milk is Bulgarian, the main raw material is Bulgarian, not as some are currently making Bulgarian cheese with imported dry milk from Poland. Is that what you're for, or are you against it? We're against it. We want consumers to be aware that where there is a name "Bulgarian" and its derivatives, it means that the main product is produced here, in the country and the main raw material is Bulgarian. That it wasn't notified. Who's supposed to notify him?! Do you know who? We need the Ministry to notify him. Just because the Ministry hasn't done its job doesn't mean we can't watch this Law here. Or maybe tactically he didn't do it to please the big chain of commerce. We are right against them and we are about the battle we are fighting with the monopolies because we want the Bulgarian consumer and consumer to really have access to quality Bulgarian food. That's it! This is what this Law proposes. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u25	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Gokov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stankov, you have piled up a bunch of clichés here that I don't know how to understand: it introduces restrictions in the choice of the user. How, by giving him the opportunity to choose Bulgarian? In practice, the Law cannot be applied. Where did you see that? Quote which cannot be applied in practice. How could these proposals be acceptable to Romanians, Hungarians, Czechs, Slovaks and Bulgarians not acceptable to Bulgaria? You quote directives, norms, anything in your speech, and you don't quote where the Bulgarian interest is and how we should protect it this Bulgarian interest. Stand up and say we are against Bulgarian production! If you do not vote for this Law at first reading and with mutual efforts to fix it at second reading, whatever you think is wrong, then you are voting against the Bulgarian producer. Let me get this straight. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u27	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. There's a third line already stated, Professor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stankov, the big chains are western. If a French farmer receives a five-euro subsidy and our Bulgarian one euro, how will he be competitive in the Bulgarian chains? [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] How do you protect our homemade? That's what I don't understand!? Instead of writing here on behalf of the Ministry or the Commission for Protection of Competition to defend ourselves, this notification to level the subsidies, and in the new common agricultural policy to level these subsidies, we are great advocates of Western chains. I cannot understand you, so I call on you to support us at first reading, and between first and second reading we will make changes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u29	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Stankov, come on in for your douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u30	I am convinced that there is not one of my colleagues who does not want to encourage the Bulgarian one, but I understand where you are going with this and what you want to say, is that clear?! Let's not say we don't support him. I'll tell you one thing: Mr. Stoynev, well, how will you oblige consumers to buy the Bulgarian one? That's what I'm asking?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u31	We don't oblige them, we give them a choice.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u32	Because with this over two million leva "so much Bulgarian production," well how will that happen?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u33	We give them a choice. We give them a choice.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u34	And the other thing is we support the Bulgarian, we support the Bulgarian producer, but within the framework of the Law. Everything has to be...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u35	Have you read the Law?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u36	Yeah, I've read it, yeah. Everything must be within the framework of the Law. We quoted European legislation, we quoted everything. So at the moment it is clear your point of reference to say: The GERB colleagues do not support the Bulgarian producer. [[Replys from "BSP for Bulgaria"]] But that's not true, we support all the good that's legal and so on. That's it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u37	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Here's Mr. Gurnevsky, next statement. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, when we blaspheme the trade chains of Bulgaria, first, we need to remember what Bulgarian trade was like before these trade chains came to chaos in trade, trade in gray. When we blaspheme these chains, which created the rules of modern European, civilized trade, I must remind you what they do for Bulgarian production. You should watch when you are interested in selling the Bulgarian, what they do. I'll give you an example of the world chain. As of last year Metro (Metro) started a project in the field of agricultural production in Bulgaria with a restoration of the old traditional Bulgarian varieties. Then, in one year, he made thousands of contracts across the country, directly with farmers. Finances these farmers, funds their planting, fertilizers, gives them the rules by which to grow production according to a certain standard, and then buys this production and ensures that Bulgarian production reaches not only the Bulgarian but also the metro market. That's what people do! They've been doing it for a year, and now you're asking why they don't? It is a swallow in world trade. After I started it, Metro started it and Billa started it and the time would come, everyone would do it. We really need this Law, the process has started and should not be rushed, but in parallel with the Law of the Ministry of Agriculture to cover all the environments, so that people have overtaken us. Enough of this populism: I don't want the Bulgarian! "Here's the world chain imposes the Bulgarian production. And bow to her, and stop blaming them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u39	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u40	From the stand, I would like to thank our previous colleague, as he practically supports our proposal. Yes, the Bulgarian producer is currently really discriminated against. That is why we want to apply this Law. Dear colleagues, last week, here in this House, we voted on the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Production. This Law was also not passed, there were also many gaps, many ambiguities, but in the interests of farmers we all united and supported this Law at first reading. Therefore, we call on you, it may not really be correct the Law, but between first and second reading to make the appropriate adjustments so that we can protect the Bulgarian producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u41	Thank you, Mr. Boshkov. People's representative Dragomir Stoynev has the floor of the second line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u42	Thank you. Dear Mr. Gurnevsky, I see you're like an advertising agent on a particular food chain, but we at BSP are not against chains. We want there to be rules and these rules to be respected as in other European countries. The fact that certain chains started and advertised the Bulgarian is precisely thanks to this Law, which we are talking about from approximately more and during the campaign and started... because they know where things are going and know that we are right. The question is here in the Chamber, whether we will really unite like this to get all the major retail stores.. notice, this is about sites that have more than two million annual turnovers here is not about these small neighborhood shops. No, they have the right to really offer each other all kinds of products, but those, the big ones, where most of the Bulgarian population goes, let them really, have this choice here we are talking about the right to choose for more Bulgarian goods because they are healthier. That's what we're looking for with this bill! Moreover, we will help both the production of meat and milk and small farmers, they know that their production will be guaranteed, their hands will not be twisted. After all, we all know how large retail chains also bend the hands of Bulgarian producers, it is really not a secret. We want to bring order. That's what we want. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u43	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Professor Gechev, you have the floor for the third line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Gurnevski, colleagues! Let us clarify something very important: first, in order to have consumers, there must be producers, because the Bulgarians who go to supermarkets and shops to buy something must have brought it out, and they bring it out, honourable colleagues, in production. The protection of production is also protection of the incomes of the Bulgarian producers, which will have a greater opportunity to choose. With this, the first argument is dismissed. The second argument for the retail chains is without question that changes in the infrastructure of the commercial system have been made very well. It took three and a half years for this parliament to end the practice of the retail chains - zero taxes in the Bulgarian budget, billions coming out of Bulgaria in their direction. Dear colleagues, do you not know that the governments of the Federal Republic of Germany and France are officially subsidizing their trade chains? They are a roller in Eastern Europe that ruins some of the competition and opens markets for Western producers. I do not blame Western politicians, they defend their interests, but it is amazing that Bulgarian MPs spin, suck with the retail chains here for three and a half years, we discussed five times, until finally the Bravo colleagues found 20 people from GERB to support the Trade Chains Act. Nine months do not pay the Bulgarians, trample the Bulgarian producers, pay marketing surveys, pay the ads of the chains. Something they can't think of doing in France or in the Czech Republic or in Poland, but we will serve here at retail chains and others. What do you mean? We want them to respect the laws of the European Union, not to ruin our production just because they came here to sell their goods. I was in Kaliningrad the other day. All BMW cars entering Russia are currently being assembled in Kaliningrad. Do you know why I'm telling you this? One hundred percent of the gas flows from Russia to Germany, 100 percent goes the goods from Germany to Russia, but here we ruin our Bulgarian producers and with two hands we vote for sanctions. Praise such a parliament! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u45	Will there be a hole, Mr. Gurnevsky? A statement? [[Heckling]] Here you go. Sorry, we heard three lines, no chance. Procedure, douche bag? You're not going to use the right to the back. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I use the National Assembly stands to address you as a consumer of Bulgarian goods. I, as part of the majority you were trying to mention that we are against the Bulgarian producer, I mean that it is the opposite. I am for the Bulgarian producer and I am for the Bulgarian goods, and I want to consume and consume Bulgarian products. I want to return the debate from the hypermarkets to the production of Bulgarian production. Whether this change that is being made at the moment of the Law will solve the problem that we have, because I think we really do have it. We have a number of players who are in the chain, manufacturer, processor, distributor and retailer. In this case, you refer to the large hypermarkets, which have more than two million turnovers and we want to oblige consumers to use Bulgarian goods. I have a few questions. First, why the Bulgarian processor does not use the Bulgarian production is Bulgarian. Bulgarian yogurt is made with Romanian milk?! This processor is Bulgarian and it does not use the Bulgarian raw material. This product enters the chains and not only in the chains, but everywhere, and as a consumer I buy Bulgarian, only already in quotes product. Will this Law decide this thing when we oblige someone to sell a certain amount of goods? Two. At one of the meetings between the two committees, the Regional and Agriculture Committees, large processors and representatives of relevant industries said that in order to sell their goods in hypermarkets, it must cover certain conditions for quantities and that there is no Bulgarian producer who can deliver these quantities of meat was in this case, and therefore he is forced to buy them from outside. In fact, I am for the use of Bulgarian goods, of quality Bulgarian production. And I think, I doubt that this particular proposal of the Law could regulate this problem that we have, and it's more rooted in the mentality of all of us. Because if the manufacturer, the processor used quality Bulgarian raw material, we would have a quality Bulgarian product. Why does he not use the Bulgarian raw material? Maybe because of the quality, maybe because of the price, maybe because of the insufficient amount. And if we start from the genesis of the problem so that producers can produce quality Bulgarian goods, with normal quantities, at a normal price, then processors will have all these conditions to use our raw material and thus there will be Bulgarian production on the market. In conclusion. When I enter the store I choose Bulgarian, I do not need anyone to tell me how much the percentage will be Bulgarian or not. The only way to pressure hypermarkets, foreign chains to sell Bulgarian is when we buy Bulgarian. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u47	Thank you. Mr. Stoynev, a reply to the speech of the National Representative Sirakov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u48	Thank you. Dear Sir Sirakov, this is what we're fighting for. And I'll explain it one more time. For example, as we now have Bulgarian cheese, only at the moment, as it comes out cheaper and some want to make a bigger deal in order to make more profit, and are ready to sacrifice the health of the Bulgarian consumer, import dry milk from Poland. We do not forbid all these people who want to produce cheese with other people's milk, let them do it, but not to bear the name "Bulgarian." "Bulgarian" and its derivatives mean only for those, for example, cheeses, cheeses, cheeses, on which the main production is here produced in Bulgaria. So when I go, you go, the Bulgarian citizens go to know that they have the right to choose Bulgarian cheese, this means that the milk is Bulgarian and it is produced here and the other to be salami cheese and then people to know. True, this will be of higher quality, it will therefore be more expensive, but the Bulgarian has the right to this choice. We don't restrict anyone, on the contrary, we give even more choice. And then the manufacturer, knowing that it is the people who are looking for the name "Bulgarian" is addressed to the Bulgarian milk producers. They, in turn, knowing that there is more demand, start to draw credits, turn to a bank, expand production, create jobs. Chains, seeing what is happening, they can also expand, even more by telling them what they should offer. That is, it is a way that exists in other countries as well. We want to be here in the country. Again, the Bulgarian producer chooses, we do not oblige him, but let him be well informed about what he buys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u49	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. A second line and a third will be heard regarding the speech of the National Representative Sirakov. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! Dear Mr. Sirakov, because you have set an example for Romania, to explain to you about Romania. There the state protects domestic production, even in villages finance the purchase of a cow. This way their villages are alive and there are animals. That's the defense. From there there is protection of all milk production, while in Bulgaria, you know how it is in this sector - no protection, milk producers are pressured with low prices, and another thing in Romania is not in the center, there is nowhere in the center.................................... and some of the big chains. They are at the end, so inside the center there is a chance for local Romanian traders and producers to sell and protect their own production. This is gone and stop with those who protect Western chains, subsidies and others.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u51	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. There was a third line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We somehow concentrate more on traders with Bulgarian production or respectively non-Bulgarian production. I'd like to turn your focus a little bit to another aspect. If we support such a restriction, in my opinion, it would lead to another effect, namely foreign producers, who, thanks to this law, will be little or very limited to selling in large chains in Bulgaria, whether they will accidentally try to make one production, to produce them in Bulgaria and thus we will achieve an additional effect.... large and capable producers outside Bulgaria, to invest in Bulgaria only and only to be able to sell in large chains. I'm not so sure if this turnover of $2 million. and these percentages, fixed in the Bill of colleagues from BSP, are exactly the right ones. But what seems reasonable is to support this Bill at first reading and then start the fine setting on it. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u53	Thank you, Mr. Christov. That was a third line. Here's your coat, Mr. Sirakov, if you'll take this opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u54	Mr. Stoinev, I respect your logical path you just laid out. That's one of the options, though. But in the long run, what would happen? We will now limit the presentation of the goods in the major hypermarkets, how much percentage should the Bulgarians be 70%, for example, let the dairy products be. In time, following this logic, we will also limit the turnover of these goods to a higher percentage through Bulgarian stores and not through foreign hypermarkets. [[Shouts from BSP for Bulgaria: "Eee! "]] And a little bit more in the longer term we will go back 30 years to the system in which I am an industry, i.e. to have only Bulgarian, only through Bulgarian stores. Yeah, I agree. I respect your logic, only I don't confess it. I am for the free market, where we will learn the Bulgarian producer to produce quality goods under normal and reasonable conditions so that the Bulgarian processor can choose the Bulgarian quality goods and sell it through Bulgarian stores. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u55	Thank you, Mr. Sirakov. For a statement? Here you go, Mr. Mladenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It is high time Bulgaria had a vision of what it will develop. Enough with governments that do not have long-term policy where we will go and what our country's priorities will be. That is why we are making changes to the Food Act. Because we from BSP for Bulgaria and we believe that agriculture is undoubtedly a traditional industry for our country, for which we must give future and support. Despite its potential, Bulgaria continues not to defend its interests in agriculture well enough. Over the past year, the value of agricultural production has fallen by 7.3%. It's NSI statistics. The main reason is higher prices, with deflation being valid for both plant farming and livestock farming. I'll take a note here. Romania is the largest importer of agriculture from us with an annual turnover of 613 million BGN. That same Romania adopted legislative measures which supported its producers. There are similar measures in other countries. It is high time for Bulgaria to stand behind this industry. What does the Food Law provide for? These are practices to protect local food producers. We will present requirements for large retail chains to offer a minimum percentage of the food products offered by local dairy products, fresh fruits and vegetables and others of proven Bulgarian origin. It was no coincidence that a number of opinion organizations spoke positively to the Bill and defined it as a step forward for the sale of more Bulgarian production. Honourable Members, this is an extremely necessary support for all small and medium-sized farmers. I hope that you will exercise national responsibility and support these changes. It is time to choose whether there will be an adequate policy or whether we will drift along this current. Thank you. [[Applause and cheers by "BSP for Bulgaria": "Bravo, bravo!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u57	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. There's a word for procedure, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We spent more than an hour in another empty conversation, of an uptight PR guy everyone's trying to get. I will take a tone from the last speech of our esteemed colleague, who said at the end, I do not know if it was in the last word: It is time to choose! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u59	Thank you to Mr. Mareshki. There was a line here.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am speaking again in favour of the proposal of colleagues who have spoken before me to vote for the first reading, and then to discuss the texts in more detail because there are really quite strong texts in support of the Bulgarian small business and Bulgarian production. I'll give you a specific example. The proposal for the payment period for perishable foods to be 10 days. You and I have all been in trade chains. We go through the counters, we like whatever we like, we go to the register and we pay for it right away. Trade chains in turn load two or three times a week fresh meat, load tomatoes and cucumbers every day and at the same time for quite a long time reschedule payment to producers. In fact, they work with their money. There are quite strong texts, and my call is really to support the Bill at first reading and between first and second readings, in a more serious debate to find the right solutions. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u61	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. You want a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u62	I'm asking for an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u63	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Apparently, some of the colleagues on the right didn't read the proposed changes well and didn't see into them. I remind you, these changes help to reach Bulgarian goods and products to society. The purpose of these changes in the Food Act is to ensure the interest of Bulgarian farmers in unfair commercial practices on the local market. The law gives security to consumers seeking Bulgarian food and to receive precisely these, increases confidence in them. For this reason, the concept of "Bulgarian" and its derivatives is introduced. The main point, I recall, is the introduction of a requirement for presence on the Bulgarian food market. Regulations are also in place regarding payment deadlines in relation to perishable foods. I will not repeat myself with my fellow Members who have already spoken, but I remind you that the changes give our producers a chance to compete with imported food, as we do not, of course, restrict other producers, regardless of what they are already trying to suggest to our colleagues on the right. A redeployment mechanism is also envisaged by which the amounts collected from the penalties are entered into the budget of the Fund for Agriculture. These amounts shall be used to support local farmers. Colleagues, we all say that we are in favour of supporting the Law, but we will see how we will actually vote. I particularly address my colleagues from the United Patriarchs: you are patriots! Where are you? A patriotic silence is heard! [[(Replication from BSP for Bulgaria "A," so!) (Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.)]] To support Bulgarian food and producers. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria "Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, ……]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u65	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Third line? Are there any lines? Do you have an asshole, Mr. Mladenov? You don't.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u66	That was a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u67	But it was stated as a line. Are there any other statements? Mr. Mareshki has a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm sorry I didn't realize it was time for a commercial. In all of the years of 27-28, and after the end of the term of office will become 32, we only increase by 15 years of decay, corruption, robbery. Twenty years of the same change in government and we come to 27-28, and tomorrow we will be up to 30-35 and we will pass those forty-several years of which some have jumped into the squares and said: "Enough! But in fact, a member of parliament asked: "Do you want to go back that time? " Well, with your department, you brought her to the point where people dream of coming back that time. [[noise, laughter and applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] which, unfortunately, I say with absolute regret, because I have fought for freedom, for democracy, for every single person to stand out with his personal qualities. But at the end of the day, you got him to wonder what was better, and we don't even wonder at all anymore. [[Noise and lines.]] During all these years you have made the impossible effort and the Bulgarian producer of any kind, of any kind, to be ruined, to be disadvantaged, to be uncompetitive and, if possible, for some small bribes, to sell the few Bulgarian productions. I will set an example with the yard in Varna, which does such damage, and many others, of course, that ruin entire terms, ruin entire cities, ruin many people. But we are talking about Bulgarian farmers right now. Shouldn't we be right here on this subject to unite and give protection, give impetus, give a competitive advantage, as a number of European and world countries do, so that the Bulgarian producer, who is our fellow countryman, both yours and our voter, can live a normal life? Don't you feel ashamed in the 21st century that the pensions of the people who created what you cannot rob through all these governments will receive a 70-80 euro pension?! Aren't you ashamed of the minimum wage to be 200-300 euros in a Europe?! Is this Europe?! Is that what we've been looking for, is that what we've been fighting for?! Finally, will today's revivals be found to change all of this, but not to remain with an empty speech, which I suppose will remain after this so-called "debate"? Thank you very much. I hope you'll reconsider and we'll find the right solution. The proposal may not be perfect, we will correct it, but it is a proposal that is good for the Bulgarian farmer and I hope that we will all support it together. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u69	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. - What's the line? Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see a request. Next statement. Please, you have the floor. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to share some experience on this subject, since I have lived in Britain for some time. There I was impressed that the retail chains over 99%, not to say almost 100%, are British and produce, and the goods in them are also from British producers. In this background, there was only one foreign German chain that sold mostly German goods, and that caught my attention. I asked myself why and how they have penetrated this market, because Britain obviously has a lot of policy to support its industries. Well, they did it by contracting this German chain to export British alcohol all over Europe into their network, which means they were looking for a balance between English and German interests. And here is the question of the rhetorical question, to ask ourselves: where is our interest in Bulgaria? Did we protect it when chains and foreign production entered, because the balance is sought and even the founding fathers of Europe and the European principles respect it. I mean, everyone's looking for their own interests. To all the questions you have asked: why Bulgarian manufacturers and processors do not produce quality, do not produce cheaply and nicely well, do it! After all, that's their concern. I would like to answer this question to you in the following way, as I first know what the reason is. For example, my uncle produces Bulgarian chicken. It is cheaper for him to buy Polish chicken and sell it in Bulgaria than to produce his own, because wages in Bulgaria are lower, taxes are lower, rents of the buildings are lower. But Poland has another policy with regard to its producers of subsidization, feed for birds, this is a long topic. But ultimately Poland manages to score, despite all its shortcomings, cheaper Polish meat and our producers do not even have the opportunity to produce it and sell it at competitive prices. This is the reason: Poland has another policy. It is time for Bulgaria to start having its own policy with regard to local producers. Now is the time to do so and, although this Law may have shortcomings, we have the capacity between first and second reading to change it and thanks to your expertise to ultimately unite around this topic and achieve something about our production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u71	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. [[Noise, lines and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Any comments regarding Mr. Bojankov's statement? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to return to the proposals on our bill and start by saying that in the countries that have been listed as countries where there are regulations regarding the supply of products and are local production, parliaments have adopted the proposed changes with full unanimity and have introduced them into legislation that they are implementing. As we can see, there is a division that has been abstentioned. What does it mean?! What are you holding back from as consumers or as farmers' defenders? This is a question that you may have to answer, but so far I have not heard an answer. You have threatened us that there is no notification that the KPC has spoken, but I would like to note that what the KPC did in February does not apply to this Bill, which has a number of changes and they are in line with some of the findings of the KPC. This detail may have escaped in the debates or in the consideration of the Bill. Last but not least, I would like to draw your attention to the inconsistent policy with regard to farmers and producers in terms of European regulations. Only two things: so that there is no pressure on the market and low buying prices in 2016. It was therefore accepted to pay a subsidy to reduce the production of milk because of the Russian embargo. This is anti-politics, provided that in the world food is the most important resource and it needs to increase as production and be competitive. A month ago, with a regulation of the Ministry of Agriculture, the fact that there is a large supply of peaches and nectarines is suggested to be given to feed the animals. The Bulgarian producer of peaches and nectarines will receive a third of the market price if they reach the hypermarkets accordingly. This, if it is a policy, I do not know how to understand Many topics have been put here what the chains are trying to do at the moment. They make an advertisement that says that contracts are concluded with Bulgarian producers and offer Bulgarian goods, but the reality is different. According to an agrostatistics report for 2016 Bulgaria is a net importer of fruit and vegetables, provided it has produced these fruits and vegetables again according to the same agrostatistics. This means that the chains do not seek the Bulgarian producers to enter into contracts with them. In the field of vegetables, contracts may be concluded each year and the quantities they need may be provided. In fruit, Bulgaria has a growth in production thanks to the European programs, but it is still very difficult to reach the market because no one is looking for the Bulgarian producer respectively for contracts to ensure such consistency of supply in the large chains. We are not against the chains, but we want there to be rules as they are in other countries. Abstinence is not a food policy that is produced in Bulgaria and which the Bulgarian consumer is looking for accordingly. Thank you. [[Applause from BG to BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Dobrev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u74	Dear colleagues, honourable importers! We have been listening to you and your colleagues from this morning how you are zealously defending the Bulgarian producer. In fact, in this room there are no opponents of the Bulgarian producer. We all want to protect the Bulgarian producer. This scene you are playing almost suggests that everyone else is against the Bulgarian producer, the protectors of the chains, and only you are for the Bulgarian producer. I want to remind you of something by trying to be as constructive as possible, by not attacking, insulting or challenging anyone with my speech. If you recall, in the 42nd or 43rd National Assembly, we had a bill to protect competition. We've been looking at it, as Mr. Kanev said, for over two years. Finally, it came to this.. here Mr. Kanev will probably support me that from the original Bill, submitted again by Mrs. Nino, only the first and last paragraph remains. Between first and second reading, we changed all other than the title and the date on which the bill came into effect! We've all changed them, we've changed them together, and we've worked for months to do it. There was then a bill which, like this Bill, would have done much more harm to the Bulgarian producer than any benefit. I hear calls for us to support the Bill now at first reading and between first and second reading to fix it. Colleagues, if we do this, it'll be the same as the Law on Protection of Competition. We will support only the first paragraph of the title and the last paragraph of the date of entry into force of the law. We will therefore make a new Law, which you yourselves know is an abuse of the rights of the MPs to replace the essence of the bill between first and second readings. Not to mention that you have negative opinions from all possible institutions from the ministries, from the Commission for Protection of Competition, including from some of the branch organizations. I was sincerely surprised to see that the branch organizations are against your bill. It sounds so good from the stand, when you tell it, such protection of the Bulgarian producer will suddenly bloom and bind, and it turns out that the industry organizations themselves are against. Colleagues, look at the opinion of the Association of Meat Processors. People say there is no such Bulgarian meat. There's no such Bulgarian meat! Both ministries and industry organizations tell you that your bill will lead to a deficit of goods and higher prices. Deficit of goods, colleagues! [[Applause from GERB.]] Democracy, the transition may have a lot of problems, but we haven't had a shortage of goods since 1990. I remember the coupons then a person had 300 grams of cheese. When I was a kid, I used to line up at the store to buy 1 kg of cheese a month. That meant a shortage of goods. Now the ministries and industry organizations tell you that your bill at first reading will lead, firstly, to a deficit of goods; and secondly, if it is not a deficit of goods, there is no coupon system, the prices of goods will jump sharply because there will be a shortage of goods. If you'll allow me to be a little more extreme, with your bill you actually want us to introduce sanctions ourselves. As there are sanctions against Russia, against North Korea from Western countries for political reasons, so, in fact, with this bill, you propose that we introduce sanctions ourselves. Let's say: here we will only sell Bulgarian, as now in Russia only sell Russian, because no one else sells them because of the sanctions. You want us to do it ourselves, impose sanctions on ourselves, impose an embargo on ourselves, you know?! That sounds absolutely ridiculous! I will not dwell at all on the other details with the notification to the European Commission before the adoption of the legislation, etc. You've heard the expert debate of colleagues. An expert debate has also taken place in the Committee on Agriculture, where the bill has been postponed, the vote has been postponed until an opinion has been received by the European Commission on the notification and such notification has been sent by the Ministry. It was interesting listening to the debate. I cannot fail to say that the example of one cow in Romania, the Romanian model, was extremely useful for the debate. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u75	- What's the line? Mr. Mareshki, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear fellow Member Dobrev, a colleague not only because we are MPs, but because we are both accused. [[Laughter, excitement, lines.]] In the accusations against me somehow you remained in the shadows, for this reason I would like to mention that there are defendants in the ranks of GERB, and indictees, as far as I know, because of serious transactions in the nuclear power plant or something in the energy sector. [[Radio.]] Whatever. Why am I going out there to make a line? I take the floor because you mentioned that in this Parliament there are no opponents of the Bulgarian producers. I would point out that not only in this, but in all parliaments before that there are not only opponents, but there are openly enemies of the Bulgarian producers! Otherwise, Bulgarian producers, in this particular case, would have grown, prospered, and we would not be looking for another year to fix the pathetic condition in which they are. Yes, there are certain farmers who are around the tops, around the tops of the ruling parties all these years, but this does not concern the ordinary farmer. We're talking about the common farmer, the mass farmer. If you, because you have ruined farmers and meat processors over the years and currently there is no such Bulgarian production, this cannot be the argument that we do not want there to be. If they are protected, I am sure that the Bulgarian manufacturer, both in distant years and now, will not allow the shelves in the shops to be empty. On the contrary, it will tighten up and fill the shelves with quality Bulgarian production with which to sweep away the second quality of foreign production with which we are flooded. Thank you. [[Applause from GG to Volya.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u77	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Second line, stated on behalf of Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dobrev, I agree with your finding that the issue is extremely important for one main reason. To what extent the fundamental principles of free trade are valid for all Member States of the European Union and for all national economies. I think we should have no doubt here that such equality does not exist. German retail chains control 90% of organised trade in Bulgaria. According to an assessment of the Institute for Market Economics, which we do not need to doubt, it is about 45% of the total volume of retail trade in Bulgaria. This means that we have a practical monopoly of German retail chains in the organised trade sector in Bulgaria. So how can this monopoly, apart from legislative initiatives, be changed? Well, he can't be changed! When the principles of free European trade are violated by those who have introduced them and who believe that they have the right to interpret them for their own commercial interests, it is the obligation of the Bulgarian MPs to protect the Bulgarian national interest, in this case the possibility of Bulgarian producers to produce and trade on equal terms. The conditions are initially violated, Mr. Dobrev. We cannot in any way compensate for the low cost of German agricultural production and the gigantic export pressure of the German economy in Eastern Europe with the pathetic efforts of Bulgarian fragmented and ruined agriculture, with the help of your predecessors in the management by the right. So these arguments that you are trying to present to us are completely irrelevant to the modern European economic reality. The second question is about deficits. Most likely your childhood memories are after November 10th, not before, by looking at you. And let me tell you something else: the deficit from the shops is currently transferred to the Bulgarian households. That's where the deficit is, in case you haven't figured it out. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u79	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Opportunity for a third line. Here you go, Mr. Boychev. Excuse me, I asked you to clarify. That's the last line to Mr. Dobrev's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dobrev, I'm sorry to hear those words from you. I would like to remind you that when the amendments to the Competition Act were discussed, the same arguments were heard by both this tribune and the Bulgarian society. And then it was explained to us how the efforts we made to change the general conditions of the retail chains to their suppliers would lead to price hikes, how it was almost to the detriment of consumers. With joint efforts, we have made changes to this Bill, and you see that nothing like this has happened. Secondly, the Union "Made in Bulgaria" is supporting the BSP Bill and here, from this House, I hear constantly that we should let the free market decide these relations. [[GERB's line.]] No, a lot of your colleagues do. The free market, to be available, must also have free competition. Under what conditions do Bulgarian farmers work? Are their subsidies equivalent to what they are to their colleagues in other countries? Is their access to funding and the resource they use is the one that farmers use in other countries? There is therefore no country in the European Union that does not support its own production. I can also give examples with Romania, I can give examples with Poland, I can give examples with Slovenia, I can give examples with the most market countries like France. You know the law in France about the regional producers and the obligation to sell the retail chains 200 kilometers around them to sell their produce. We must now give a very clear signal of support to the Bulgarian producers, who guarantee both income and employment in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u81	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. A hole by the MP Delyan Dobrev. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u82	Dear Mr. Jablyanov, there was a deficit really at the beginning of democracy the so-called "Lukanov period" when BSP was again in power. But there were coupons and deficits before that during communism, now my colleagues told me, I was not really born then, sixty-one years. So there were both deficits and coupons during communism and during BSP management, and I don't know why [[BSP comments for Bulgaria]] We had to clarify that question. Mr. Boychev, in the Law on Protection of Competition, which we adopted in the Forty-third National Assembly, all the texts were essentially on the proposal of the group of GERB, all the texts essentially by me and my fellow MPs, and all your texts at first reading dropped out. [[Laughter and applause from GERB]] . So do not try to take any credit for the adopted Law on Protection of Competition. The only merit of yours is that you were the initiators and submitted the first bill on this subject. But from it, again, remains the title and date of entry into force of the Law. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u83	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Are there any other statements on the draft discussion? There are no other speeches. We're closing the debate, we're going to vote. Please, Quaestors, invite Members of the National Assembly to vote on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Food Act. Please, voting mode. They voted 203 MPs: 97 against 8, abstention 98. It's a re-voting proposal. Here you go, Professor. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose that there should be a re-voting because, firstly, colleagues could not vote and, secondly, I think that disinformation was submitted to the National Assembly because whether the Bulgarian producers can satisfy the market at the moment without there being no production market. Somebody didn't understand. [[GERB's noise and lines]] . With this Law we will give the Bulgarian producers the opportunity to increase production, otherwise if you repeat this vote, you trample the Bulgarian producers. Everything else is locumi. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u85	We're in procedure, thank you. We're going over the offer. They voted 211 MPs: for 102, against 19, abstention 90. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u86	On behalf of a parliamentary group, Mr. Mareshki, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u87	Madam President, honourable Members! I say that out of respect to the Bulgarian voters who voted for you, yes, not majority, because that is the Law, for the parties that raised you, but you are still representatives of the Bulgarian people who sent you here. I will give you some of the precious time to introduce you to some of a very serious material not because it is written and published by a prominent MP from GERB, not because it is not written by the Revisor or by the investigator Valyo Ahchiev. I will show some of these materials because the prominent MP from GERB works with documents only and only with documents. He can't afford to throw baseless accusations into space. Therefore, because this material shows the imperfections of the transition, the transition of robbery, the transition of corrupt governance, I will be very brief and I will read you what is on the cover of this interesting material. His name is Shaika. [[Shows a book.]] Boyko, Rocen, Tsetso, Lilyana... Four years they ruled Bulgaria and dragged it to the bottom. They were talking about the Moral, and the Samas were going into corruption and corruption. They worked and lived like a shaikka, and they were united by a criminal target. This is the one where they get their dark secrets. First person. Only with documents and facts. It's intact, but it doesn't save a thing. Their relationship with the BCP and State Security, with the bank cartel, with internard gangsters, with that shadowy chat of what we call backstage. Reckett, donos, contrabanda, billion-dollar trances, draining the state reserve. And more. It's only on the cover, and the book has about 250 pages. I turn to the Attorney General and hope that he will act like a real man, which I hear from his speeches, immediately file a lawsuit, call me, and I promise him that this time I will have the courage to speak with real names, with real facts about who are the people I've learned from, not to repeat, about these robberies, gangs, smuggling, murders, etc., which people we're talking about. I'm gonna make a roll call and hope the truth comes out. The whole truth. If this thing that I only read on the cover, I couldn't get to know the whole story, and he's a little bit curious, as far as I can tell, because we only found one book in all of Sofia, her circulation is over...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u88	Republish.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u89	We, by the way, are ready to sponsor his re-issue. [[Radio and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If what is said inside, not therefore, I say again that he is a prominent MEP from GERB, but because he only deals with documents and only with the truth, and only with facts, these people should not be ruling, but should be in prisons. If this is not true, however, I will not be a judge in this dispute between these people, if this is not true, then we have a harsh slander, a distortion of facts and a forgery of documents, a use of false documents so that you can protect these tézi, then the person who is such a prominent user of documents in his words should also be in these places, because these are also gross crimes. So we call on the Attorney General to act as quickly as possible, we will cooperate with him and we will be very specific with names and facts. As I understand it, Parliament will be long, so we will have time in these four years from time to time to introduce you to some of the materials in the book. [[Radio.]] What conclusion do we draw, and what are we prepared to declare by the Parliamentary Group? We're only speaking figuratively, but what do we see? We see a country governed by the scheme "Three Three People say, yes, there are not only three, five, six, fifteen or so, but we will symbolically paint them like this. The first three is the so-called three pigs. [[Radio.]] What are we saying? We're running from the word "pigs." This is a collective image of the symbol of evil, of corruption, of the carefree government, of the bringing of Bulgarian voters, Bulgarian citizens to poverty, of the destruction of Bulgarian producers and of everything bad that is happening in the country. The second three are the so-called leaders themselves, as they call their coalition partners the three idiots. Once again, it's not about specific names that someone doesn't feel specifically offended. That's how we hear them being treated on the sidelines. But they're not the biggest trouble. We get to the third group of three, these are the three fools. The three fools is a gathering image of these men who are ready at any time, at any place, by order, no matter who, to come out and speak all kinds of nonsense, any false claims to try to defamate whether the Prime Minister, whether a member of the Chamber, whether a particular political party, does not matter. These are people who are ready at any moment to come out and talk all kinds of nonsense. We're not going to pay attention to them, we're just going to mention that this is the way of government. We notice that somehow we don't fit into this environment, somehow from within, this desire for me not to sit in the front, if it is possible that the Parliamentary Group of Volja is not in parliament. Therefore, on behalf of our parliamentary group, I will make the following statement. I am ready to immediately leave the vice-presidential seat at two simple things that you have promised in your election campaigns, we support them. Today, tomorrow, the fastest way to vote is to increase the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners to 300 BGN. And we take a small step towards fighting the cartel by creating a state chain of gas stations to fight the cartel. It's not a man's job, no matter how brave he is, no matter how strong he is, no matter how much he loves his people and his country, to do this job. If we vote on the two things, you've all promised it to fight cartels, raise incomes, raise pensions, 300 BGN. a pension, and before that, 500 BGN, we've heard it for decades. So you vote these two things, which are only for the benefit of the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian state, the Bulgarian producer, the business and you will immediately fulfill your dream of not seeing me in the vice-presidential place. As you can see, there is not a single proposal to solve any personal issues of our own on any of our parliamentary groups. We are only talking about the right of the Bulgarian people to live decently, for some decent incomes, for the right of the Bulgarian business to work normally, in a competitive environment and to develop, for the prosperity of the Bulgarian state and for the prosperity of the Bulgarian people. I really hope the Attorney General is active. I expect you all to be assistants in this thing, to give the parliamentary immunity to those who have committed crimes, to remove them from those places that are occupying at the moment, I really repeat for the last time about the welfare of the Bulgarian people, about the prosperity of the Bulgarian state. Thank you for your attention. [[Applauses from "Volja" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u90	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL TAXES AND TAXES. Report of the Budget Committee.. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u91	Thank you. Mr. Boyko Atanasov, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Tax Policy Directorate, and Mrs. Petya Kopcheva, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Tax Policy Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u92	Please, a voting regime for the admission of the Deputy Minister and Directors of Directorates of the Ministry of Finance. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u93	♪ I can't believe the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Local Taxes and Fees Act, No 702-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 July 2017. At a meeting held on 7 September 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Local Taxes and Fees Act. The bill was presented by Mr. Boyko Atanasov. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees is drawn up in accordance with the provisions of § 13a of the Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, according to which the Council of Ministers together with the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria should develop a methodology for drawing up a plan-account with the necessary costs for the activities and the types of foundations which serve to determine the amount of the household waste fee and submit to the National Assembly a draft amendment. The bill is consistent with the basic principles of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees and also accepts those imposed by the local authorities of the Member States of the European Union when determining the fee for household waste to comply with the principle........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It is a measure to stimulate separate collection, recycling and composting of waste and, at the same time, it is a financial incentive for both users to reduce the amount of waste generated and for municipalities to optimize the cost of collection, transport and treatment of waste. The proposed changes clearly define the services for which the municipalities charge. The three services are: 1. collection and transport of municipal waste to facilities and installations for their treatment; 2. treatment of municipal waste in facilities and installations; 3. maintaining the purity of the territories for public use in the settlements and settlements in the municipalities. The bill provides for a clearer definition of the costs that are eligible to be included when determining the amount of the fee and the account plan will be unified. In order to be transparent in determining the costs of the plan-account, a public consultation was proposed prior to its approval, as well as publication of aggregated data from it on the websites of municipalities and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria on an annual basis. In order to ensure transparency and awareness of the debtors, it is proposed that the draft decision to adopt the specific foundations and the draft report of the importer prior to their submission for consideration at a meeting of the municipal council should also be published on the public consultation website of the municipality. It also provides that the information and data on the approved accounts plan, the reported costs and the reported amounts of collected and treated household waste for the previous year, as well as the adopted bases for the determination of a waste charge for the current year, are to be published annually by 15 February on the municipal website in a format defined by the Regulation for drawing up the plan-account. The National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria is scheduled to publish annual summary information related to the municipal waste fee, by municipalities, by districts and at national level. It is envisaged that the amount of household waste charge for each debtor will be determined by the cost of the household waste fee for the current year of the plan-account being allocated on the basis of the foundations adopted by the municipal council. The Bill proposed a leading basis for determining the amount of the household waste charge to be the amount of municipal waste. The use of foundations other than the amount of household waste is possible and is subject to a condition that the other foundations will not be an alternative to the leading base and their choice should be further motivated. Representatives of the National Association of Municipalities, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Environment and Waters, Bulgarian Industrial Association, Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Sofia Municipal Council, Mayors and MPs from the parliamentary groups took part in the discussions. They all united around the idea of the necessity and usefulness of the proposed legislative changes. There were opinions and demands for a thorough debate on the problems that might arise in the implementation of the law on specific texts from it. The National Association of Municipalities has strongly proposed extending the deadline for the introduction of the new allocation bases by one year from 1 January 2020. According to them, this is necessary in order to ensure smooth preparation and technical securing of their implementation. A proposal was made for the Ministry of Finance to design and provide the Commission with the draft Ordinance under art. 66, para. 3, p. 1 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees relating to the Account Plan, which took place within the time limit until the bill was reviewed at second reading. A decision has been taken between first and second readings to form a working group of stakeholders which, by consensus, propose relevant changes in order to achieve a balance of fairness and financial security. In conclusion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the so-called draft of 13 votes for the draft, without abstention and 5 abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, No 702-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u94	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Motives to the proposed bill will there be? I won't. We're moving on to speeches. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, guys. Mrs. Yankova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is no dispute that this Bill must be changed and that the motives which the Council of Ministers has tabled with great delay should be debated here in Parliament for several reasons. For a long time on tax assessment, and in the Bill of Local Taxes and Fees itself, the fee should not be collected. Since the end of 2008, there has been a directive and we, by Law, have obliged the Council of Ministers and the Association of Municipalities to introduce a new methodology. This new methodology, colleagues, was produced for 5 years at the end of 2013 was the message, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. The interesting thing is, however, that the Council of Ministers submitted the proposal and the obligation was together with the Association of Municipalities. And there's a noise in the system. The Association of Municipalities doesn't agree. Up to one stage he was involved in the development of the methodology and then he withdrew for many reasons. You know them, colleagues. Here you are a large part of municipal councilors, the other part are former mayors and we know that this is a big policy that affects everyone, touching every home, every family, to business. I was particularly impressed by the mayors' behaviour in the first part, which is the introduction and of which the President of the Budget Committee said that everyone was involved. Here is now a purely political moment the consideration of the Association and, above all, of the great Sofia Municipality, but further I will refer to the considerations of Sofia Municipality and not by accident it, with the chairmen of committees, attends two committees of both the Budget and the Regional. With regard to the........................................................................ is paying................................ There must be justice. There are three options. There must be a certain purity. With this Bill here, we must realise that we should not make it possible to create conditions for cities to become dirtier, but we must create a condition with this Project that cities and villages become cleaner, better organized. I have my concerns here, and I'll share it in a moment. And in parallel to that, as justice, as purity, I suppose each of you feels that political announcement that there will be a radically different organization of waste collection and waste disposal. The opportunities in small villages to take buckets as if it were easier. In the big blocks, the measure of justice, which will we give black sacks, and these bags will squeeze Sofia and it will sink into junk? It's no coincidence that the municipalities are worried about this organization. I have personally witnessed when Athens tabled such a bill the Athenians rebelled. On every corner, on each street large quantities of black sacks.. was extremely ugly picture. You must know that when moving to this type of organization there is a need for good, but very good, that this should be meaningful, created and organised. So we have a couple of announcements in this Bill. It's not that simple. I realize that your business is very hard on both opinions. They are extremely pleased with the proposal. But there's one point in the Bill where you consider yes, the quantity is one, the second is the treatment, but we have common parts, colleagues. When I say that cities, municipalities, Bulgaria must become cleaner if we change the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, this means cleanliness, air; public places that we will clean, which we will distribute and go as burdens for citizens. Don't imagine that a bag will heal it, it will be smaller and reduce the shit charge. What about the sidewalk, what about the street, what about the green area? In this plan, I'll put it in. It says that it will be distributed in the number of residents or in the square. It will be added to the price for the people themselves. There are many things that we will consider just between first and second readings. Summer you sweep the sidewalk and you say, "He's clean here, maybe the lawmaker will have to rule because if he goes into court procedures, they always have the intentions of the person who wants to let the cultivator out to clean the sidewalk, you want to pay from the garbage charge, and they say, "No, it's winter maintenance." Where in winter maintenance do we have money for sidewalks? There are things in which if we are going to do clean Bulgaria, clean municipalities, good relations, justice, in the Bill we should inform these decisions. There's good stuff. The publicity of the Association of Municipalities that every citizen will enter and say: "Aha, in this municipality is so, in the other is otherwise. " These are good things. However, there is one more question. We, as National Assembly, have ruled with two policies. The first policy has formed regional reserves. Where the mother depot is, we have a normal relationship on the three components. And where is the city that drives to the mother depot, how do we distribute it, colleagues? Solitary on all of the territory where the depot is, or only for the municipality for which it rides? Here with Law we have obliged them there is a gap in the proposal. There's a third place. The legislator has spoken to have, and is being pressured by politics, increasingly separative installations. The municipalities do not have funds for the separative installations. They are either going to public-private partnerships or, accordingly, they are looking for any opportunities for the three or four municipalities to do the separation. There is, of course, lobbying in people who deal with this policy. We didn't secure them, and here remains the money from the garbage tax to go to the regional environmental offices so that if you didn't make them stand like a depot, the state would pressure you to make the separation installation. We have not provided policy, but we have also pressured the citizens, we have pressured the municipalities. There's no problem here. And now we come to the purely political finale, as it is at first reading. We will abstain or be opposed for several reasons. The mayors are warning that the price of shit is going to go up. The President of the Sofia Budget Commission said: "For citizens the waste charge is expected to increase twice and 80% in the domestic relations of the capital city citizens will bear the garbage charge, 20%. In parallel, from the discussion in the Association of Municipalities, I heard that the mayor of Dimitrovgrad calculated more specifically and shared that the villages will increase 10 times. You promised taxes and taxes wouldn't increase. There's something good for us as opposition. If you accept it, we will simply, in principle, abstain because you promised not to increase. But you're doing us a very good job. You take it because you're in a hurry, you vote it, and you'll give us a chance in big cities, maybe we'll have opportunities for political dividends based on this policy to make a lot of district cities. I'm expecting problems. You will calculate them yourself. It is no coincidence that your mayors are protesting at the moment ours are small, will easily organize them, they are smaller municipalities. But the big problem, purely political, is yours. Here I do not warn you, you know the noise of the mayors of GERB, what it is about that this is a heavy, big problem both as an organization, and as purity, and as a way of adjusting the functioning. I repeat, because there will be burdens on the citizens, we will be against it, but you can also help us politically accept it. You've accepted it, you've decided to accept it, but I do know that the mayors are your pό miles. In parallel with this, I expect and propose: if it is to be considered wisely, rather than rushing to please, let's do so to give bonuses for municipalities - large, small, medium, this year that will start, next year, next year and to do an analysis of what happened then to be introduced. To make an observation, a discussion and at the end of 2018 we say: "This is possible." In parallel to this, if it is reasonable, we must say: "In 2019, there are local elections, let the mayors compete with the municipal councillors and the population choose the model by which this waste collection will be made, and from 2020 this policy will start to apply. I'm sure you'll be voting now to calm the business down. And I am convinced that 2018 you will say, "There is no organization, we will postpone it for 2020. This is our warning: we warn the citizens of Bulgaria that the waste charge will increase that at the moment the state and municipalities are not ready to create such an organization that the Council of Ministers has four years delayed writing this methodology. It could have been written earlier and entered into a debate as a policy. I want to share with you, colleagues, that our view is to, yes, we are seeking fair accounting of the waste charge, we want clean municipalities, clean Bulgaria, but in parallel to this clear understanding of the relations between settlements, between people living and their social portfolio, the opportunities for them to bear these burdens. In the finals I'll say here I heard. In the transition, in that period, which you hate it until 1989, there are three-storey houses in the villages. Right now, thank God, there's a couple of people living there. Once we get them an area that's gonna sweep, do you know how the shit charge is gonna go up there? There are things that need to be thought through. And that's where the poorest people live. The people with the smallest pensions. So let's think about it more. We've offered you a delay. You won't accept it. Take political responsibility. Citizens of Bulgaria, part of the promise that you have been given that there will be no increase in taxes and fees, we are currently entering this period and the bill is precisely an additional, meaningless good burden on the people who will assume this as a responsibility. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u96	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Any lines to the statement? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u97	Mrs. Yankova, I respect your expertise as mayor and that you are a professional in this area. I would just like to give you the following line: 2013, when legislatively started this saga, you, your majority here, in this Parliament, have abolished the tax base as a possible basis, which is currently used for the distribution of the waste charge, and you have recorded that a working group must be formed? the Council of Ministers, the National Association, to make the methodology for both the foundations and the way in which the waste charge is calculated. This did not happen because the approach that was adopted, for me it was the right approach, it was not to come here and debate it for two years, but before that to debate it interested parties and when it entered the National Assembly to have a bill that reflects a consensus between these countries. This, unfortunately, did not happen either 2013 and 2014, then the Commission in question was rebooted again, the working group of 2015 and until now it is not happening. You're saying the National Association has left. Well, it's easier than leaving something, and the hardest thing is to make a constructive proposal that works. You say that there are some numbers here 30 to 70 business people and so on, but the National Association hasn't found the opportunity, and perhaps on purpose, to give the figures about how much a tax is actually paid as a relative share of the business, how many of the people? This is intentional, and I will tell you why, because in recent years there is almost no business that has not used the opportunity to enter into a contract with the municipality and the waste collection company and to pay the amount of waste on the basis of requested vessels and multiples of their disposal. So the business has solved this problem, and is currently paying for the amount of waste. I'll continue in the speech later.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Second line, or a statement? For a statement? Second line? I won't. For the doppelganger?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u99	I have a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u100	Excuse me, Mrs. Yankova, there's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u101	Madam President, honourable Members! Mrs. Yankova, I will make a very short line to your speech. I don't know to what extent you're familiar with it, I guess pretty well. There are families in Sofia who pay 30 leva. municipal waste charge, four-member families, really for undersized housing. I cannot accept that for the value of a coffee per month a family must pay a household waste fee and expect that the capital will be clean, European, friendly and as you would call it. My other note will be about the fact that the municipalities have withdrawn. Yeah, they retired because they don't want to burden themselves with this really complicated matter. It's gonna take a lot of effort on their part, a lot of work. For me, it is absolutely clear what municipalities are retreating for. So I think it's reasonable to accept this bill. This is more about justice than anything else. All citizens who expect to live in a clean environment must pay according to what they pollute.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u102	Thank you, dear Mrs. Fikirliyska. Third line? I can't see. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u103	I agree with both lines. Yes, 2013 there was a decision of the Constitutional Court, a directive and the Law had to be amended. A working group was built, part of the people of the Council of Ministers who are here, were members of this working group. It's the same, it's the same experts. Two thousand and fourteen years in the middle you take over the state with liabilities and assets. You should have completed this process in half of 2014 and 2015, but you were aware that elections were coming in 2015 and that is why you have politically postponed this moment, and 2016 and 2017. The time has now come to debate it, and there is real pressure to do so. My colleague Fikirliyska is entirely on my side. I listened very carefully, very rarely chairmen of committees from Sofia Municipality come to parliament. They're worried about the organization, the weights, they want a little distance in time. We are telling you that we have a profit from making it faster because in the end the large group of mayors are mayors of GERB. It's a purely political issue. The fact that someone has problems in Sofia Municipality is a problem of Local taxes and fees of Sofia Municipality. If we are looking for justice - beautiful Bulgaria, beautiful municipalities, well organized, you are right. All over the world, however, the burdens are increasing, not by going to elections to lie to people: We will not raise your taxes, we will not raise your fees, but there is one... [[Reply.]] There is, there is, you have it in the program, in the statements, we will subtract, if you want between first and second reading, such commitments. Therefore, dear friends, the bigger problem is.. Let them pay, but make a policy to have a portfolio, to have economic development, to have bread people, to have more income to be able to pay. Additional weight will be, hurry, is not thought out, but if you want, do it. Take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u104	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Colleagues, it's 11:26 a.m., let's take a break and then we'll continue the debate. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u105	Colleagues, please take your seats. We are continuing with the debates on the second item of today's agenda - first vote on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u106	Colleagues, the previous speeches clarified the history of this Bill and its beginning in the distant 2013 in search of consensus and the best option. It turns out that the easiest thing is actually delaying and not taking a decision, because not taking a decision in practice also means not taking responsibility. I understand that everyone in this room is aware that the principles on which the waste charge is calculated as a whole, on the one hand, and, secondly, the way it is distributed, the basis on which it is distributed among the people, the business, the ones that pollute, must actually be changed. Everyone knows it has to be changed. For the first time now, although such consensus of the working groups for so many years has failed to be achieved, the government has assumed its responsibility and tabled this bill in order for us to consider it. Naturally, BSP will seek the opportunity to politically use that someone takes responsibility for doing a job that hasn't been done for years. But there's nothing wrong with that! In the previous statements it was said that the change of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees in the part of the Tax Dump is a political act, a political decision. I think that's highly exaggerated. I want to return you to what a garbage tax means and why it's a fee, it's not a tax, it's a tax. Under the Fees Act, fees must be the price of the service that a state, in this case, provides to citizens, businesses, people. And the amount of each fee must be cost-oriented. It must be equal to the amount necessary to cover the costs of carrying out that fee. This, in the years of tax, is increasingly and further away from the real costs that are necessary for its formation. This is also one of the objectives of the Bill, namely the fair determination of the fee for municipal waste. And here I would like to refer to the first problem: how much in a municipality should be the amount collected from a municipal waste charge so that it enables the municipality to perform the quality of the waste collection service, shipping, treatment of waste and maintenance of the territories. To make this clear, the Law provides many texts, the first of which clearly defines what the service in question involves. Three components of this service are defined: the collection and hauling of municipal waste; their treatment in landfills; the last component is the maintenance of the territory. The next moment, which decides the Law, is what costs are necessary for the implementation of each of these services and for these costs not to be invented by the municipality, but to be real. In this direction, texts are written in the Bill, which say exactly which costs should be entered under the three components and plan - the account cannot be filled in with other costs. You'll say, "But now you're like this!" Yeah, that's what the law says. However, it is a general sentence and, unfortunately, all the checks carried out by the Court of Auditors and the Financial Inspection Agency find that this is not respected and many municipalities have included in their plan-account costs which have not been in common with the costs of these three components, such as the costs of maintaining and irrigation green areas, of landscaping, of disinsecting, of maintaining the street network, of repairing rain ducts, of rehabilitating bars, of repairing children's playgrounds and so on and so forth. More than that. This has to end! The law clearly defines costs. It is said that the plan-account will be unified with a regulation of the Council of Ministers. It will be accepted, compulsory and used by all municipalities. In order to ensure that this will happen, transparency mechanisms, public consultation, upload both the plan-account and how it is implemented and how it was implemented for the previous year are provided for. I mean, on each feather planned in the plan-account, how much money has been spent on this particular feather. And I think that by including in the discussion the entire population of a municipality, NGOs in a municipality, this is the way we will ensure the correct determination of the amount of the fee. Because the key is not how we will distribute it to users, but how much a fee is needed to do the work by the municipality and really have the quality of the service. It is because of the fair determination of the municipal waste charge that the majority of the texts in this Bill are also involved. Before I move on to the next major topic, in what way to distribute, I would like to say that ultimately, the introduction of the principle is not self-sustaining. The point of this is that the polluter is really the one who uses the service because he uses it because it pollutes, to pay in the amount of his share of this pollution. However, it is not only a principle that must be applied in the distribution of the fee. The Contaminant is a principle that would stimulate municipalities and people for environmental protection, for separate waste collection, for the use of much of the waste with which they would generate additional revenue for the municipality and ultimately reduce the amount of municipal waste itself. I'm going to tell you some numbers because we've been talking about this for many years. For many years the municipalities have declared that they are making changes in this direction, but I will tell you the figures. From 2010 to 2015, revenues from municipal waste tax from all municipalities of the Republic of Bulgaria increased from 468 million to 513 million. At the same time, household waste, which is generated per person in kilograms per year, has decreased from 542 kg per person to 419 kg. That's 130 kilos less in five years, which is a quarter off. What's going on? We have a reduction in household waste generated as a quantity and we have an increase in revenue collected from garbage tax. We've got a glitch in the system somewhere. The bug is in the way it is defined by the plan-account. This Law will end this. We need to stimulate separate collection, because some other data shows that packaging recycling, where you know that separate collection companies work, in general, and packaging manufacturers, we are at the average levels of the European Union, that is, where the other countries are, but by the indicator This must end and I think that in this part the bill gives a stable solution. Now, naturally, we are going to the other issue, which is more spicy and more interesting for political speaking, and this is the question: in what way, on what basis should the so determined waste charge be distributed to users? We are all aware that the tax assessment cannot be on this basis. It is so far from generated waste that it has turned the tax tax tax into a tax. In fact, it has turned it into a tax, which is illegal, I would say unconstitutional, so another tax base must be found. What happened in 2013 what was it? We get rid of the tail there, it's not going to be the tax assessment, and we're just saying "quantity of bits." This is what you voted as a majority of BSP and DPS, here in this House. And we let the municipalities handle themselves as they see fit, determine the amount of waste that was disposed of. It's not a problem for small municipalities. In single-family houses, vessels can very easily be declared, their multiples of hauling and really people can pay for what they generated as waste. The problem is in large cities, in large complexes, where many people live and it is extremely difficult to apply any measure to determine the amount of waste that throws out every household, or every single family, or ultimately every single person. After many discussions, a compromise was adopted the option that is closest to the Pollutant pays a number of residents in the property concerned, because it is practically the person who generates the waste and I think that for large cities this is a relatively fair base, even though it does not correspond to 100% of the amount of waste being disposed of. Here, of course, I can give examples that have already been given by this tribune, and I will not return to them. Naturally, when the legislator seeks the appropriate solution, he must take account not only of justice and legality, but also of the way in which municipalities would operate a municipal waste charge, the way in which municipalities would administer that municipal waste charge. Now they have a system of tax assessments, they charge them there, they fix, people pay and so on, but this needs to change, which means that new databases need to be made, municipalities need to think a little bit, they need to be more flexible. No one obliges them to accept a single basis in a municipality. It can be a combination of basics as they are appropriate to apply this principle fairly. And here we have to allow municipalities, according to their specifics, to choose one approach or another, one that would be most fair and which would at least burden people with additional burdens. There will probably be a lot of talk against this tribune, but in all these years in the working groups in which almost all interested parties participated, no one could offer and come up with a basis that would be easy to administer and at the same time fair and would comply with the principle. In the end, and that is why the Council of Ministers is proposing to the legislator that this foundation be the number of residents. There was talk here that at the moment the municipal waste charge was allocated 30 to 70, you see 70% paid the business, 30% paid the people, and now when we go to the principle I would like to say that the National Association of Municipalities has so far not provided a reference to what is the ratio between the contributions of business and ordinary citizens, on the one hand, on the other hand I agree that if one type of tax base is introduced or another, it is necessary to have a very serious preparation by the municipalities, for which one year is foreseen in this Bill, i.e. the next year 2018 to carry out this preparation and from 2019 to vote on the new dimensions. We have a call from municipalities to extend this deadline. I personally believe that it is very unlikely that within this one-year period the municipalities will be able to cope, because we are not just talking here about adopting the regulations that will definitely have public opinion. We are talking about the mechanism, possible submission of some declarations, involving floor ownership in larger cities and so on, which will take more time, and, of course, then the creation of the relevant database, which can be used to calculate the fee and its collection. We between first and second reading will consider this problem.. Is there an opportunity to deal with municipalities within one year or should it be extended by another year, as is their request, and we will consider any constructive proposals that would be made by MPs under the mechanism by which the cost of the municipal waste charge plan is formed, as well as on the mechanism for its allocation. There was a call here that, you see, business is pushing us. I think that the business has long stopped pushing us because it pays on the basis of vessels and really discarded waste and the pressure is more pure, how can I say, emotional and media, from the Bulgarian Industrial Association, which has taken as its cause the garbage tax and this is more in the media than it is real. Another point is that the mayors of 264 municipalities, in addition to being creative, must be extremely interested and take real measures to reduce the amount of household waste. This is the way to looking for opportunities to use that part of the waste that can be used, which may be another source of revenue in the income account of the household waste charge. Here it has been heard from this tribune, do you see how unequal municipalities will be, which have regional depots and others who drive to these regional depots, and what prevents these municipalities and what has prevented them from organizing separative installations so far and what will drive to the regional depot to be reduced not only half, but also to generate revenues from the separation of these waste and the sale of arable waste? Nothing bothers them, but so far they have not been pressed by the Law, they have not been pressed by the people, and why move, cause problems? If we as legislators do not create conditions for municipalities to become active in this direction, on the one hand, and the population of the municipality concerned, such as pressure on the management of the municipality, to become active in this direction, we will never get to justice in the municipal waste charge, and more and more the municipal waste charge will depart from the cost of the service for it. In fact, there were calls during these working groups: "What is the charge? " Let's tax it, let's determine it as we see fit, on whatever basis we decide the tax assessment you, a person, it doesn't matter and it has nothing to do with the costs of carrying out this service. Well, that's extremely convenient for the mayors. Very convenient for the administration, of course. You all know that administration is very often one of the main obstacles to changing approaches and principles in one direction or another. I think there's a lot of time for this topic to be debated. That's a long time! All interested parties have made their views known. It is high time for the legislator to assume his responsibility, to adopt the Law at first reading, to give ourselves a sufficient period between first and second reading, and I guarantee you that any proposal will be considered. Any constructive proposal that could be in the direction of improving the mechanism will be formulated and adopted. So I expect from you no political opposition, no use of the topic to blow up the political sailor, no use of the theme, the GERB came to power and promised not to raise taxes and fees, but now they are raising them. No, we're not picking them up! The household waste charge not only will not be generally increased, it will be reduced when introducing the principles of which costs should be inside and these costs taken into account and controlled. Another question is how this household waste charge will be distributed and one can be reduced, another can be increased. Because there are many examples when a person lives in an apartment or house, paying the tax assessment, in the center of Sofia or in the center of any city he pays much more than a four-member family at the end of the city. Who pollutes and who has to pay how much?! There were speeches here: "You see, in a small village, where three floors of houses were built, how this built-up area, which is a version of the tax base for the third component of maintaining the territories, will load these people. Well, it won't burden them, for the simple reason that the developed area is the base, but the scale, the percentage that will be imposed on this base, will be as much as necessary to maintain the territory of this populated area, will it be a village, or a small town. And here is the place of the municipal council, here is also the place of the public to control how much expenses are being made, what these costs are. I think there's gonna be a lot of speculation on specifics. I call on you, let us, on a Law that is very important and which we postpone for many, many years, not just from 2013, but well before that, try to avoid our purely political desires to use every topic of political opposition and political dividends, and to unite ourselves for constructive solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u107	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Any lines to the statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I have listened carefully to your speech. Even at one time I decided that you would propose that the point be postponed, as there were some contradictory things in terms of protecting this bill. Now you say not to be political, and that in some places the fee can be increased, others can be reduced. I was municipal councillor at the Sofia Municipal Council and in mandate 2011 in the Committee on the Environment. Do you know where the fee will be reduced? Where the whole organisation of transportation, disposal, waste collection is carried out by the municipality itself. In this case, I had suggested that the district mayors themselves in Sofia do this thing. Then there'll be lightening. Otherwise I haven't heard there's a company that's bankrupt, so let's face it in this room. For business, you're absolutely right. Yeah, business, they make contracts for certain containers. Things are pretty clear there. Now I can't comment on the BIA proposal. You made a line to Mrs. Dora Yankova that we had to debate before she entered the room. Now you finally said that everything about this bill was clear that there were many debates. I don't understand what's true.! In my opinion, if there were a lot of debates, we, at least in the Committee on the Environment, had to look at this bill, and not now, this afternoon, from two and a half hours to see a bill that is currently in the Chamber. On the other hand, the Committee on Regional Development has been notified that their vote is postponed. That is to say, this Commission will not take any part in this bill either. I say again, so I suggested that this bill be withdrawn in order to pass through committees, there to hear the opinion of the Association of Municipalities, so that, when it entered the Chamber, there would be clarity from the point of view of the committees important under this Law. It's an ecological problem... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u109	Mr. Georgiev, time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u110	...aside from a tax of junk. And you well said that by throwing the bags past the trash cans, the problem is no longer from the point of view of the fees, but is environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u111	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Second line? Mr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u112	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, and I listened very carefully, like colleague Georgiev. From the impact assessment table you have extracted the revenue that 2010 is four hundred and I do not know how many million, 2015 is five hundred and something. I don't agree with you because you've made an account and you want to throw it to the municipalities here that they've been spending a lot of money. What was the charge for the provision of the two charges under art. Art. 60, Art. 64 from 2010, what was the increase and how much was 2015 paid? Keep in mind that the revenue they entered went in the direction and let's not blame both the mayors and the municipal councils for not doing their math and taking people's money just like that and spending it any way they want. With regard to the separate collection. The separate collection in Bulgaria has nothing to do with garbage tax. Circumstantially, through the products we buy in the store or somewhere else, this is financed by the product fee, so this fee has nothing to do with the one to talk about it. Why are we at the European average on packaging? Shall I tell you? Because for metals, there's VAT, and by taking some metal to the dot, they write it as a wrapper. Is my time running out?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u113	You have 20 seconds left.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u114	Thank you, and then in the speech I will stress at other times.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u115	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, in your speech you were able to mark all the controversial moments and vices of the bill. I fully agree with you that the price of this public service must be formed to cover the cost, but there is also an element here that we must not forget, namely the social tolerance of this price. Make the effort to make a brief analysis and you will see that much of the public services in municipalities are subsidized because the scissors between the price paid by citizens, the real costs of covering, are wide open. Here the same problem will arise and once again the citizens will be punished for the fact that, yes, undoubtedly, for so many years, we all have our faults together that this reform does not start. With regard to small municipalities and what you said they had the possibility of recycling, using waste to reduce their costs and to form additional revenues. The small municipalities suffered seriously in another part of the waste management reform when they closed down local landfills and joined the regional waste management systems when they had to make much more serious costs for transport and the other organisation and covering the whole area of waste collection. Now this Bill will create additional difficulties in determining the basis, because when it has individual waste vessels, investment in waste containers will be required when it is in individual garbage bags, more serious control will be required, which is also a financial commitment, as administrative capacity, let us not be mistaken, of small municipalities due to the demographic crisis and non-attractive pay decreases each year. Not to mention that the determination of a minimum amount of official, sometimes based on information from mayors and mayors, will also lead to an opportunity to appeal the amount of fees.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u117	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A hole, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u118	Mr. Georgiev, you're right. There really isn't a waste company that's gone bankrupt. Moreover, the data shows that more than half of the municipalities have contracts for waste collection and shipping with such companies. Less than half do this service on their own. I definitely believe that when municipalities have organised the collection and shipping of municipal enterprises, not with a trader under the Commercial Law, whether it is owned by the municipality or by a private owner, but with a municipal enterprise, the control and optimization of costs can be much better. Since there are contractors involved in this business in the contracts for which the municipality is a contracting entity, it is precisely the precise and clear definition of the costs in the plan-account that will also create an opportunity to control the costs that these undertakings, these waste collection companies charge to the municipalities. I think that should be appreciated in the Law. Mr. Genov replicated me in terms of the figures I said about revenue. I want to tell you that they were just income from a household waste charge collected by people and companies. There, unfortunately, are very few revenues reported from recycling recyclable waste. There's hardly any community involved in this. You know what state the separate collection is in each of the municipalities where each of us returns on Saturdays and Sundays. Tragic! If we don't get the municipalities to work in this direction, we're gonna be buried with junk in the environment, and it's gonna cost people a lot of money. Mr. Genov, at least you're an expert on everything, including garbage, I have no doubt that you replicated me that the recovery of the packages had nothing to do with garbage tax. Yeah, I won't. But there the mechanism has led to the fact that we are those who have reached the average European level, and here, because of the lack of mechanism, we are at the last level of composting domestic waste. As for Mr. Ivanov's reply to Mr. Ivanov, there is no bill to be tabled and in which there are no controversial moments. And there are controversial moments in this one, and that's why we have first and second readings and so on to smooth out these controversial moments, and search for maximum possibilities and consensus. I don't agree with what you said public services are being subsidized. In this case, the waste charge is not subsidized by the other revenues of the municipality, quite the opposite. I have information about the exact number of municipalities that in the plan-account have recorded costs more than the bet on the garbage fee, you understand what this is about?! And it is this Law that will stop them and give a control tool not only to the control bodies of the Court of Auditors, but also to the people. Because ultimately, basic control must be done by civil society. As for the capacity of small municipalities, I agree with you, but this is perhaps another debate on how many municipalities and what services there should be in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Ali for a statement. Wait in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, I allow myself to give you a procedure in the manner of conduct so that you do not allow Members of the National Assembly from this tribune to qualify for other Members of the National Assembly for what they are specialists of, what they understand. After all, all of us here have sent us Bulgarian citizens and who is the expert in his work, and we do not need to tell ourselves who understands what and make fun of our colleagues. I hold it when there are such statements either to terminate them or to make at least a remark to colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u121	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I think there was no offensive qualification in Mrs. Stoyanova's speech, so I didn't think I should have made a remark. Here you go, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u122	Dear Mrs. Chairman, honourable Members! Once again, I am convinced that what I proposed at the beginning of today's meeting is to postpone this point in time, as a parliamentary group of the DPS, because such comments have been heard here. I have experience because I was a four-term mayor of the municipality. I can talk about this a lot, but I will be brief and I will focus on basic details that are important in the adoption of the Law. Already entering the Chamber, obviously there is the will to vote within this year, which will be a mistake, be convinced of that until all the weaknesses of what is being proposed are cleared. Dear colleagues, each municipality is specific to itself, each region is specific to itself. It is not normal to compare Sofia with Targovishte or Plovdiv with Tsar Kaloyan. Let's let the experts and mayors of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria make a methodology by allocating and dividing the municipalities, as we have distributed them even when applying for European projects, rural municipalities, agglomerations of up to 50 thousand inhabitants, over 50 thousand inhabitants. Otherwise we will get into confusion and 2019 when there are local elections... Do not think that this is the occasion to replicate and say that we want this Law not to be done because of the elections. It's not like that. This Law must be passed. I agree, the entire parliamentary group agrees that whoever pollutes must pay. It's inevitable! This is European practice. We agree, but let's not get ahead of ourselves, because we're about to get into a car accident. By dividing the municipalities by categories, we will have the opportunity to examine the specifics of each region. Why have we divided Bulgaria into six economic regions? What are these regions doing?! They only get together once a month. And where are their proposals in this particular direction?! Since the beginning of democratic changes, we have been talking about decentralisation of power. Where's the decentralization?! At the moment we are talking about a centralised imposition of a certain type of fee, without asking the opinion of NGOs, of regional associations, of the National Association of Municipalities as tolerance, such as the Central Balkan Mountains, such as the Danube municipalities. The National Association of Municipalities can jointly prepare a methodology. Besides NGOs, even pension clubs can ask what they think about this, because it is important and will reach right into their pocket! We don't want to get into populism. That's a serious question. Therefore, the matter must be postponed at least one year until accepted by the National Association of Municipalities. Secondly, where is the state when about 55 regional reserves were to be created?! Are they created? Are they funded? Separately, separating systems. Separately, what licenses do these depots have? Are the unregulated dumps in Bulgaria closed? Do you know how many questions there are in this direction that are not solved at all as a problem! The smallest municipalities will pay the most because they are the furthest from the regional depots because of additional deposits that we pay to the Ministry of Ecology through the RIEWs in the regions. Where are those taxis?! Small municipalities should have made separative systems or cultivation of garbage. How do we do that? Look at how many municipalities have applied to PDOOS, the Ministry of Ecology and how many projects there are won. I can even give examples of the city I was mayor of. I've applied three times for a separation system, and three times I don't approve of the project. Now we're paying insane amounts of money to carry the junk, separately for the disposal, not to mention that almost 50 or maybe more of the regional depots need to build additional cells. Where's the country? Where are we? These questions, I do not want to go into detail, we are not ready to accept this Law. That is why the strong opinion of the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is to cancel in time and really create something... No one is against this Law. What we need to do is, who pollutes to pay. Everyone agrees with this, but let us ask everyone to create something good so that we do not have a problem with the Bulgarian voter after that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. Any lines to Mr. Ali's statement? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in for a first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u124	Mr. Ali, on another delay that you propose, I would put a sign of equality with irresponsibility or running away from responsibility. For five years, everyone you talked about was debating the issue. Five years! Five more to wait for them to reach consensus, and we, you see, the MPs are waiting to reach a consensus and vote it out without a problem. Is that what you want to happen? It's happening. In 2013, on a proposal from your parliamentary group, the possibility that, to this day, the tax assessment is not the basis for determining the fee. What's happened since then? Nothing! Now you're suggesting that we postpone the next five years again.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u125	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Second line? I don't see a second line. Will you use the hole, Mr. Ali? No. Next statement Mr. Veselinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say that the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, on which I am President, has held an extremely thorough debate on this bill. It took place on September 7th. It was attended by many mayors, many representatives of municipalities, including Sofia Municipality. In general, the debate held in this House took place in one way in the Commission. The only reason we did not hold a vote and there was no proposal for a decision to the National Assembly is the fact that the Management Board of the National Association of Municipalities had not yet gathered and had no official position. Therefore, on a proposal from BSP colleagues, the vote was postponed for a moment when we have such an opinion. Unfortunately, this position practically came to me today, about an hour ago, and we haven't had a chance to introduce our colleagues and finish our work in a purely procedural way. In any case, I do not think that the vote would be a surprise, as it will take place today in this House by the representatives of all the political parties and, above all, is based on the same motives that we have heard in the Commission and now. Perhaps it is right to say a few words about the official opinion of the National Association of Municipalities, which we received in the Commission, and which says that: The representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria actively participated in the working group of the Ministry of Finance and at all stages of the preparation of the Bill. We have put forward a proposal on the proposed texts and during inter-agency coordination, with a small part of them being reflected. Following a discussion at the Trilateral Council, which we did not participate in, changes took place, worsening some of the regulations agreed in the working group. Our principled position is based on the undisputed need for fairer determination of the amount of household waste fee. The proposed bill more clearly defines the types of services for which municipalities can collect fees, in particular defines the costs that are allowed to be included in determining the amount of a fee, better clarifys the order to conduct a public discussion and so on. These are undoubtedly the strengths that receive our support, and we also have some comments. The following are six remarks, including: the Waste Management Act should also change and obey the principle of.................................................................................................. In practice, in the debate we had in the Commission, I did not notice any principle differences between the representatives of the individual political forces. Indeed, the bill has been amended after the meeting of the Tripartite Council, which makes it less favourable for the representatives of the municipalities. And I, as a representative of the United Patriarchs and many of the other colleagues, have expressed a desire between first and second reading to extend the period in which the Law will enter into force and, in practice, its implementation will begin after 2020. I think this is one of the topics that could unite us. Moreover, on the basis of the specific proposals of the National Association of Municipalities, we could make a working group in which at least the consensus things, without distinction from the political forces, will be imported and found their place between first and second readings. The procrastination spells for me personally are unclear. The colleague before me mentioned that he was a municipal councillor, and I served 15 years in this position. In these fifteen years the whole time was talked about the upcoming introduction of this fee, and this was still somewhere in the uncertain future. This delay is hurting everyone, in my opinion. First of all, it harms the sense of justice in people who pay the garbage tax, where uniform buildings, on a street, if you will, because small settlements are spoken of, say, in a small settlement, who have the same garbage cans and generally the same cost is required the municipality to take over, whether they are full or empty, after all they pay dramatically different such garbage. One can pay BGN 6.50 and the other can pay BGN 165 for example. Just for the price of the property. We can't talk about justice in the garbage tax subject to this principle. This bill has actually revised the basic vice of how we have so far paid this kind of service. I think it's worth supporting. To conclude, I would like to say that the United Patriarchs will support this bill at first reading. We call on really not to have politicalisation, to try between first and second reading to find the maximum consensus that is good for municipalities, but also for citizens of these municipalities, including businesses, so that the system becomes more working, so that there are no gray areas of waste collection, respectively, of cleaning public areas. After all, the norm to be working and to be beneficial to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Do we have any lines to Mr. Veselinov's statement? I can't see. Mr. Genov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u128	Dear Mrs. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, thank you for the compliment you gave me. As you can see, I've been challenged by him to make a statement. We all agree that the existing situation is not in line with the so-called.. principle of................................................................................... There is no conformity of household waste fees and is contrary to the principles of justice. There is also no correlation with the amount of waste generated. But at the moment the options being proposed, these three, in the hypothesis of their implementation, do not give enough light and in the impact assessment that accompanies the Law, there is no real data. I, Mrs. Stoyanova, have bothered to get accurate data from a municipality. For 2015, in the event of the actual implementation of the plan and the collection rate, the ratio of natural persons is 53,15 to 46,85 for legal entities. For 2016 it's 55/44. You said that the business had sort of sorted things out and paid the amount generated. I do not agree with you to the end, because at the moment on the basis of the tax assessment there are three components on the basis of which a garbage charge is collected. Businesses whether, by stating a certain amount of containers, depends on the way they pay on a certain minimum, there is also a correct way that things cannot be caught to the end due to lack of control. With the fact that business has arranged its cottage in this regard, I disagree. What if the hypothesis that 20% in the case I have in front of me, 20% out of 3 million is 600,000, the business will pay 600,000. What about the rest of the million? Three hundred thousand. They have to come from the population. I do not want to inspire fear and horror in people that you see with this legislative change, as some media have allowed themselves to write, it is unlikely that the fee will jump ten times. But it is correct to say that at the moment we cannot, in relation to the hypotheses of the methodologies that are proposed, say how much this will happen. With regard to the separate collection, Mrs. Stoyanova, I absolutely agree with you, but why the Law was made so. No mayor gives a penny. He's offered a contract that he won't pay anything, and they'll collect. Who collects, how they collect, whether they stole the container, the green, the yellow, the blue, whether they set it on fire, whether it was restored on the ground, the municipal administration didn't care at all. So here I fully agree that there must be mechanisms to oblige the mayors and municipal councils to force them, rather, to be able to arrange the work so that they are interested in reducing the amount of depopulated waste. I also want one personal thing to you, Mrs. Stoyanova, because I saw that you have entered deep into matter. You, if you are the mayor of Plovdiv, of the district of Stolipinovo, how will you take his garbage? How are you going to get it, how are you going to count it, how are you going to see how many are at home, or in the shed, or in the canopy where they are, how are you going to determine the amount of the fee, how are you going to take their money? That's also a big gap in the Law for me. We can't all pay, and somebody can't pay right now. Why?! When Mr. Gurnevsky used to say to them, "Vote for the UDF, you won't pay for the electricity, we'll pay for the water" and so on. That movie's over. That movie's over! You said setting a garbage charge wasn't a political one, it was an economic act. Yes, economically, but raise you in Plovdiv twice and a half a garbage charge 2019 to see how it will become political! I don't want you to misunderstand, we at BSP are not against the philosophy of the Law. We will abstain for the moment because we do not agree with the deadline proposed for its implementation. We're talking about one year, which is indicated. It seems that you too are of our opinion and will join us further that this, colleague Nenkov, will become three, two or five years. It's very five years, really, but these are the realities. You at the moment, and we, and any specialist, not having the data, what has happened now, and how will you assess the effect of the Law after one year, when there are no such data, how much expenditure has decreased, how much waste that has been deposited, how much has recycled increased? No such assessment can be made. A sorcerer and an equilibrist and a 12-year-old in math, he still can't do it. So let's be realistic, fellow Members. I call for more reason, for a debate. I would be delighted if the Association of Municipalities included its written opinion, we would perhaps see it at the Committee on Environment and Water in the afternoon. There, too, we will look at this point and I would be pleased if the Association of Municipalities gave some real reasonable proposals on the amendments to this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u129	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky. Personal explanation or a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u130	Line. Mr. Genov's line. Mr. Genov, the fact that communist slanders are your party's third principle is clear to us. You just made a defamation...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u131	Mr. Gurnevsky, on the subject, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u132	You just made a defamation out of those microphones. I suggest that I take you by your hand on Monday to take you to the former Plovdiv enterprise Elektrodiv when I was mayor of Plovdiv, and you will see that this issue is discussed in Plovdiv that, first of all, in my time, the obligations of Stolipinovo to the enterprise are the least. This one, first. The collection rate was the highest. But since you asked how you would collect a garbage charge in "Stolipinovo" I think that in this hall, there is no more specialist in the political system of Bulgaria on Roma issues than you and I suggest that we place you there and collect garbage tax. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u133	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u134	If you can't collect it, you have money to buy votes with, you'll pay from them. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u135	Second line? I don't see a second line. A hole? I made a remark, Mr. Svilensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u136	Mr. Gurnevsky, I reminded you of a speech from your campaign rally years ago. Ask someone who works well with the archives, read these things, see them, these are your words. And as for you trying to live on this stand at some courthouse, you were never a judge, I hope you never will be. So let's not tease the lion! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u137	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u138	Of course, without these two last moments, the debate we are having in this room on the garbage issue is very old. It is one of the most comprehensive and everything that has been said in the Chamber has been said, repeated, feared in whatever formats, in whatever form so far, it has not been a debate that has taken place in what has been called the so-called, repeat, so-called "citizen society"; these have been debates that have originated and derived very often from the business, in the form of the municipalities, each individually, the Association of Municipalities, the Ombudsman was involved, the police, prosecutors were involved, because in the topic of garbage there was and continues to have, of course, many corruption, but the great dignity of this debate and of those who speak from the left and the right, and the opposition, and the leaders are finally having it in the plenary room. That's the big one, and that's the most important one. Because all the reasoning, all the reasoning, all the hypotheses, all the models that were presented so far, were just said, spoken, passed away, and the theme of garbage was thrown into the trash. Because there is not a lot of politics in the garbage theme? can not make political dividends, based on it cannot win votes and increase electorate, but it is heavy and unpleasant, because it is such in essence that you cannot invent the perfect model. This is not only in Bulgaria, it is so all over the world. That's why, on the news, most regularly you see famous cities around the world buried with garbage, it cannot be moved, there are constantly problems in the most perfect and perfect, if you will, a democratic society, we know that in this House the concept of it in the heads of the various participants here is different, cannot be found. That's why we from Ataka are calling you...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u139	United patriots.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u140	...and in the statement of my fellow partymate a moment ago, it was to call you finally on the one that the Law was introduced to pass and begin after all these years this change and this reform on the subject. Because everyone was banging, powering, and when it came to a final blow, and it could only happen in this room, the subject would come out, and it would go into nothingness, over and over again for years. Now any delay means the same. Each of this stalling means throwing itself back into some institutions, in some discussions that we are currently doing. They have been done so many times that nothing new can be imported. Selected is a model, a formula, let's see how it works. Otherwise, it'll be five years, another five and another five, and the garbage theme will stay in the trash. There will be a great injustice about the burden of payments, there will be problems in how money is distributed, where the money is going. There will be an absolute discrepancy between those who make the trash and those who pay the garbage. Yes, there will really be a problem in the fact that now more people will collect the money, that it will not be, as it has been so far, by the number of companies in each municipality, which, by a very arbitrary principle, pay some money and huge money. It won't be like that. Someone might be sorry it won't be like this, because it'll be easier for him to be like he was before. This Law is, as I have called them before you before, one of the domestic questions, because the issue of garbage is a domestic matter. In it we should not put so much politics, so much political passion, and divide ourselves into red and blue, go back to the times of the UDF and those mutren times, when the garbage was earning so much, not that it is now not being won, but once, in the first years of the dawn of democracy, the garbage was one of the main sources of profit for certain structures, was one of the toughest territories in which groups fought, who took the garbage and who used it and used it. Let us now reduce this subject to purely pragmatic parameters, not to be so political, to adopt the First Reading Act. Between first and second reading there is, of course, what to touch, knowing that this will not be the final option. It's a system that's conservative, it's slowly adjusting, it's slowly changing, but in the years it has to be perfected. That is the case in many countries that we strive for, so will we. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u141	Thank you, Mr. Shopov, and we wish you a happy birthday. Bless you! [[Applause.]] Any comments on Mr. Shopov's statement? I can't see. Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u142	Honourable Members, Madam President! Undoubtedly, the subject is extremely important and it has been really much commented in recent years. As you know, regardless of the political distribution of the House of Officials, Opposition, I understand your position that you will not support the Law and will abstain, but in the end there is an unwritten rule, and it is that when something you do not want to do, you can make thousands of arguments. That's what each of us must have encountered in our daily lives, especially when he went to some administration. The issue is really very serious and it is about justice. I can give thousands of examples of how for the same service, given that the service must be cost-oriented and after this service there must be some real cost made, how in the same neighborhoods on neighbouring streets there is a different tax base, which determines the different fee for collecting and hauling household waste, which means that this is absolutely unfair. The fee must really be made so that the one who pollutes is the one who pays. We shouldn't worry about the fact, and I get very angry when you hear arguments like: you see, people don't have that mentality. A simple example. People didn't have that mentality before when the mandatory use of belts was to be introduced in each vehicle. People didn't have that habit. But what happened? Are there people like that now? No, you won't. There isn't, because the state has done its job and gradually, it has taken this step forward. It's a very simple principle. Another argument. Municipalities don't have capacity. The municipalities had no capacity when Bulgaria entered the European Union and when they had to absorb funds for hundreds of millions, but built such capacity. Isn't that right?! It's the same thing with trash, with how to organize your hauling, collecting, composting these waste. I believe that people have sent us here, especially in a representative democracy, where they have delegated 240 people's elected to lead the country and set the tone of movement, the modernisation of the state, not only because we have to comply with European legislation and because there is a directive, but because it is the right principle. I believe that people have therefore delegated this opportunity to us and, by our vote, to determine where the country should develop and modernise. I believe that there is not a single sane person in this room who does not think that this principle, which is currently, is absolutely wrong. I understand the municipalities. Yeah, sure, sure, it's hard, it's gonna be organisationally difficult for them. Many of your arguments have a question that is about to be clarified, but ultimately this should not stop us and postpone this topic for years to come, because we both want, on the one hand, to get closer to the middle developed European countries, to be a developed country, and yet we do not want to sometimes, just deliberately, not take a step forward, and the step forward depends on what we are going to vote in this House today. The main word of the Bill is reform, reform in this sector. I really call on you all to support this bill. Here, in the frame of the joke, because Mr. Genov just said that they are in principle agree and philosophy is correct, but the deadline is not enough, I can promise Mr. Genov that if you support the Bill today, we will talk about the subject of the term if we have to extend it, although I do not wish to, but I hope now with my request, you will support this Bill. There is nothing more important than that people have first transparency in the way this fee is collected, how it is distributed transparently and is distributed fairly, because many examples can really judge how people pay a different fee, and the service is the same for the same neighborhoods, which is not fair and there is no one to convince me that this is not wrong. So really, colleagues, I pray you very much, I call on you, this really is a reform in this sector, it is really useful for society, it will modernise the state, it will give the municipalities plenty of time if they have to do their reorganisation, but if we do not support it, it will be a step back and it will be a product of regression thinking rather than how we develop our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u143	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Replies to Mr. Nenkov's statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u144	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Nenkov, in principle, your statement resembles most of the people in this room who speak expertly. Yes, it is, the polluter must pay as much as it pollutes, but you know that once upon a time a man had told the tale of the great and the small righteousness. Yes, considering the global logic of the Law is correct. However, what we do with 80% of Bulgarian citizens who wake up one night and pay a garbage charge, the next day for the same service, there is no change of quality, there is no change in the trash that they throw out, and they pay double the fee, because in the end this will happen. So justice is a concept which, as seen by a different bell tower, sounds differently in the eyes of Bulgarian citizens. Therefore, since you speak a lot of justice and not only you and your colleagues here in the Chamber, tell me how we will explain to these 80% of the citizens and say 80, because clearly there are 5% for which there is no problem, there are 10-15% in Stolipinovo, Kumlooka Burgas, in other places that have not paid, no matter what the methodology, will still not pay. However, the other 80%, which will be charged without changing the service, how do we explain this to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u145	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. For the second line, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u146	Dear Madam President, dear colleague Nenkov! In the context of what I have also said, I will ask you a question of the speaker. How do you explain to the Bulgarian citizens that once they were heated through the thermal power plant, there were no heat meters, you use..................... you do not use....................................................................... and there is a common water meter.............................................................. In the context of the previous one, because the question here is not who will pay, but that it will pay as much as it consumed or generated waste. It's the same in the toll system.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u147	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Third line? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u148	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Nenkov! Yes, indeed in this Bill we are making a huge change, a change in philosophy and here the lines that have been made, and we should not remain as MPs with the belief that the three components will pay for what you pollute, but we live in a family, in a municipality, and hence will be paid by the three options whether the RPS, or the number of residents, the treatment of waste. Well, all the mayors and all the advisors, again, we have to go to modern municipalities, what about your common areas, the washing, the pavements, the green parts, the composting? This will be distributed equally and jointly, it will come in the account. I mean, you see, we're now with the small amount that we're going to introduce a modern... And we're worried about that readiness in these first two or three years of resetting this system altogether, will there be a phase-in? Enter it now, your will, lead 125 mayors, to do it, to modernize Bulgaria, we will help, we have smaller municipalities. But it is extremely responsible in this process, if we accept a principled, radical change, to actually clean cities and villages, to have air giving that weight. And don't get the impression that there isn't, here Mr. Lazarov said: the first component for each other differently, but there are two or three more components on which there will also be a kapak sidewalks, common parts, park, washing, there are many things. It's politics. It's clean cities as an attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. For Mr. Nenkov's doppelganger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u150	Madam President, honourable colleagues, Mrs. Yankova! I am deeply convinced that you think the same way as we do, I am convinced of this thing. The question is whether we have the guts, that's the whole point. I said it a little while ago, any reform, of course it wants time, there is no perfect law, there are no perfect municipalities, but you know very well, in every municipality, no matter what color the mayor is, or there is a majority in the municipal council, much depends on the rulers themselves in a municipality whether they will manage to make a nice, clean, orderly municipality. And it's not just about some coloring here, is it? It's about the desire of a mayor, an administration, of course, of finance, of the opportunity to participate in various programs, because there are many mayors, for example, who say, "We can't ask for money," but there is no money. There are opportunities, some others succeed, so it's not equal. The question here really is: whether we are ready to take this step forward with the clear awareness that it will lead to certain difficulties, it will require some time, but something that has been commented for so many years now, I have loved municipalities, do not misunderstand me, on the contrary, but we still have to ask them this tone. Whether it's 2019 or 2020, it's not really that important after all. The point is really to go in this direction because if we want to develop, to have clean cities, to be arranged, to be more transparent, if you will, then that is the step forward and there is no doubt. We have not invented hot water, we are looking to see good examples in other large countries. And I am sure, without consulting, by heart, I am saying that there is no certainty in the world or at least in Europe such large cities, where they, for example, have the basis for the tax assessment, or even the unfair option, the built-up area. Yes, you do. And what a colleague Tishev replicated me a little while ago, too. After all, no one's saying whether it's more expensive or not, and it's a myth, because, ultimately, if you had the opportunity and you were allowed to pay less, if you used less household waste, you generated less trash, then it would be an incentive. And these people, who have actually paid less to date, have been positive for them, but for everyone else who so far subsidized their non-payment, is not fair and for themselves the same service in the same neighborhood is being paid by different people in different ways. That can't be fair. And that there are many such certain private cases in each municipality... remote from the depot, and so on, I agree, but this every single municipality in relation to its specifics can do so and I am convinced that it can do so. And we are the people who need to set that tone forward. That's why people sent us because we want to develop our country to be modern, our cities to be modern, clean, orderly, that's why we're chosen here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u151	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. For a statement made a request Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u152	Madam President, honourable Members! No one is arguing that it is high time for justice to be imposed, and the main principle of payment of this service is to pay the amount of waste that each household throws away and, of course, to find the best model for maintaining and cleaning public areas. In my opinion, and the debate so far has shown it, one of the worst problems in making a decision today is that there is no real preliminary assessment of the effect of the implementation of the Law amending and supplementing this law. If one had been done, perhaps seriously, perhaps municipalities would have been much more relaxed in the preliminary discussion, in seeking consensus to resolve this difficult issue. Undoubtedly reform is necessary, but without the partnership of municipalities with such a forceful imposition of a decision without even signaling that it is possible to discuss a more recent period of implementation of the Law, it is normal to receive such treatment from them, and from all municipalities, regardless of the political coloration of government. The second big problem in my opinion, and I think it is difficult to deny, is that once again, we are adopting a law with which we are introducing undoubtedly a legally regulated responsibility of the municipalities that, behind which we are not providing funding. Because in this first year, in 2018, including with the preparation of the database, with the creation of the new software, with investing in vessels or in waste bags, in information campaigns, additional funds will be needed for all of this and the law, nor will our behaviour so far and in the preliminary discussion give any indication that we will support municipalities with any tools for this. By the way, the opinion I heard from the chairman of our committee Mr. Veselinov at the Municipal Exhibition, in which they propose to go in parallel and to amend the Waste Management Act, is a really good proposal. Because without being an expert on the subject, but I have seen that the Gabrovo Municipality has proposed such a thing in the preliminary discussion of the product fee, which is currently not included in the municipalities, can be a financial instrument with which they can be supported in the first year of the application of the Law. Finally, the greatest risk, in my opinion, is not just the new financial burden on citizens and households. The biggest risk is that after so many years and efforts of local authorities and achieving a good level of waste management the Law creates a huge risk that quality of service and this level will be lost, and literally in one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u153	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Replies to Mr. Ivanov's statement? I can't see. Here's your speech, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Undoubtedly, today's debate held in the Chamber on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees shows that these changes are extremely important. It shows that these changes have many aspects. This is a bill that concerns not only good financial management of public funds. This is a bill that concerns every citizen. This is a bill that concerns both the social issue and economic issues and environmental issues. From what I've heard so far, I can't help but share the impression that we are all uniting around the spirit and philosophy of the principles that lie at the heart of the Bill, the principles of justice, the principles relating to the foundations of environmental legislation, the We all agree that we need to work together to make the environment in the populated areas more and more friendly, to be clean, to be well maintained our cities and villages, so that environmental pollution is not allowed. Transparency, awareness, publicity, dialogue is also a principle enshrined in the proposed bill. That is why I would like to call on everyone here to support the Law. As it became clear, this issue has been on the agenda for many years. However, we must make the steps forward.. The steps related to the achievement of national objectives; the steps that are related, if you will, and the common European priorities related to the implementation of the steps of the transition to the circular economy. Because pre-treatment, recycling of waste, all of this needs to be applied to reduce the amount of depopulated waste. Here each of us has a place, has a role, and this Bill is one of the incentives that will lead to reducing the amount of waste generated, to fairly distribute the burden on the basis of the waste generated by each of us, to enable municipalities to reasonably structure their accounts plan, to spend the funds to invest in improving waste management systems. That's what you do in years. The indicators are clear, the positive trend is also in terms of achieving the objectives related to the waste management hierarchy and improving the living environment of our citizens. Let us unite ourselves around this to support a sensible bill following these fundamental principles. As far as the debate is concerned, it can continue in the period between the first and second reading of the Bill, within which constructive proposals can be discussed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u155	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. Replies to Mrs. Vassileva's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u156	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It's obvious that when you take such a radical step, there are winners, there are losers. The truth is that here in this Chamber many of the MPs have been mayors and they know that this problem is more than 15 years, it is constantly being discussed and the idea of making reforms is constant. I won't repeat the colleagues who spoke before me. That's not the point. The truth is that from all this history, and this is an honor in the interests of the truth of colleagues from GERB and from BSP, and of colleagues even from DPS, because these are the three main parties that have mayors in the country, the truth is that the weight of this whole story will fall on their mayors, and it will be sure that it will be so. What's going to happen? It's clear what's gonna happen. This is one of the main revenue feathers of each municipality, of each mayor. I am convinced that the new system will make the mayors have less revenue in their municipal budgets. There's one way out from here, and we're already going to see if this thing we're doing right now is going to produce some serious results. A large number of mayors will be reaching out for local taxes. I can tell you this right now, and you'll see it's gonna turn out that way. From now on, it depends on how in cities citizenship will accept another tax hike in municipalities. So here it is, I'd say, pinching the problem of how society will socially accept this tax hike, because I'm convinced that some mayors, not to say most, will get there. Here the point is that the victims are both GERB and BSP, and DPS, we The Patriots have only a few mayors in Bulgaria and a small settlement. Here I really expect the political clash to happen in 2019, because many of the citizens will say: why are you raising our taxes again? This is what will happen, but otherwise I firmly believe, as my own personal opinion, that this system that we are currently introducing is fair. It's mostly fair to citizens, it's fair to business, but like any system, it's not perfect. Some colleagues here have very rightly said that none of us in this room can be a magician to decide how he will really react so abruptly, I repeat, such a sharp change in things. I personally, as well as my fellow Members, will support the Law at first reading. Some things at second reading have to be ironed out, but let's not throw the baby for the sake of the dirty water, so as a former mayor, I will support this Law for the first time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u157	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Any lines to Mr. Atanasov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u158	They voted 183 MPs: 112, against 38, abstention 33. The bill was passed in the first vote. We move on to the next item on our agenda: GENERAL LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE MOVE LAW, No 753-19-8, dated 19 July 2017 81, AL. 2 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE BORIS Yacheva AND THE GROUP OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES ON 15 June 2017 AND No 754-01-33, PUT BY THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES STILL IN IBANOV ON 30 June 2017 With the report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the President of the Commission will introduce us to the people representative Halil Letifov. You have the floor, dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, allow me one clearance procedure. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Krasimir Tzipov to be admitted to the Deputy Minister of Interior, and Mr Boyko Ranovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u160	We are voting on the proposal for admission in this House. They voted 140 MPs: for 139, they won't mind, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite Deputy Minister Tzipov and Mr. Ranovski to the Chamber. You have the floor, dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Renewal and Supplement to the Road Traffic Act." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. According to § 1, there is a proposal from the MP Boris Yachev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is "1." to drive a road vehicle with a blood alcohol concentration of more than 0,5 per thousand and/or after use of narcotics or their analogues;
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u162	You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, as well as the version proposed by the Commission of § 1 by importer, in accordance with its report. Please vote on the text of the importer for the name and § 1 on the Commission report. They voted 145 MPs: for 145, against and abstention there is no. The name of the Law and § 1 of the Commission report are unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u163	According to § 2 there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... Article 19 is amended as Art. 19. (1) When a road is situated on the road road, the drivers of road vehicles on it shall be obliged to release it as quickly as possible when approaching a road vehicle from the regular public passenger lines in order to miss it. (2) Where there is a canvas on the road, with paved road, especially for the movement of railway vehicles, it shall be prohibited to move non-road road vehicles on it, except for road vehicles from regular public passenger lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u164	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! What is offered in this paragraph? First of all, I'd like to remind you that we're looking at the 73rd Amendment to the Road Traffic Act. I keep saying we need a new Road Traffic Act. I see no fulfillment of Mr. Tsvetanov's promise to have such a Law introduced in the autumn by the working group. [[GERB lines.]] All the changes that are being made at the moment do not see what will contribute to reducing the victims on the roads in the two paragraphs that are being proposed at the moment. What's this about? Colleagues, listen carefully to what nonsense we will accept: "When the road road is situated on the road, road drivers are obliged to release it as quickly as possible when approaching a road vehicle from regular public passenger transport lines to miss it. Explain if you are driving and behind you there is some bus, van, how do you know if this bus is from the public lines of use, how will you release the line the fastest, in what way, when the two sails around you are occupied, where will you go to release it, and respectively how will you be sanctioned and by whom?! We accept a norm that will not be fulfilled. The cars will move along the tracks, will make it difficult for the traffic of the trams in this case only talk about Sofia, because in other places there are no trams, but nevertheless the proposal continues to appear in the report, and even worse is that it has been adopted by the Transport Commission. And the second, more disturbing proposal: When there is a canvas with a pavement built on the road, especially for the movement of railway vehicles, imagine it, for example Blvd. "Konstantin Velichkov" or "Konstantin Velichkov" Blvd. The movement of non-rail road vehicles on it is prohibited, except for road vehicles from the regular public transport lines. Therefore, on the lines of trams, which are the environmental, economic, fast transport in Sofia, we are now launching the buses to make them even faster or even more environmentally friendly.! In addition, tram routes are fundamentally different from bus routes in terms of safety. Tell me, when there are two buses that stop at a traffic light, and behind them the tram moves at the speed at which it moves, but we know that the stopping distance of the track vehicles is much longer than that of others, in God forbid a catastrophe how many casualties will there be?! And we will all be accomplices to the adoption of the text, because on the tram track we will put the bus with the passengers inside, standing, without belts, without anything, we will bet them and pray to the Lord some vatman does not stop at them. They're even now the trams are bumping into each other, and now, right now, these catastrophes are happening. Colleagues, I suggest that this text not be accepted. I propose to consider in the future in dialogue with Sofia Municipality what is the problem. What problem do we solve with this text? Then let's offer solutions. Otherwise, I expect Mr. Ivanov's next proposal would be to bring the buses into the metrolinas even faster. Thank you. [[Laughter, excitement, applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u166	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 2 on the Commission report. They voted 143 MPs: 99, against 35, abstention 9. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted. Re-vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am proposing a re-voting because two of my colleagues failed to vote. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the functioning of the voting boards. This is not the first and only case. Please, when the sitting is completed, make the necessary verification as to why it cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u168	Of course. Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. It's a re-vote. Vote 149 MPs: 105 against 37, abstention 7. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u169	According to § 3 a proposal from the National Representative Boris Yachev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the "1." to a driver who has a blood alcohol concentration above 0,5 per thousand and/or has used drugs or their analogues or of an unfit driver;
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u170	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote § 3 on the Commission report. They voted 143 MPs: 143, against and abstention. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u171	According to § 4 the proposal from the National Representative Boris Yachev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: It's five o'clock. there is doubt that an accident participant has a blood alcohol concentration of more than 0,5 per thousand and/or has used narcotics or their analogues or does not have the necessary driving rights;
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u172	Statements? There are no speeches. We are voting § 4 on the Commission report. They voted 146 MPs: 146, against and abstention. Paragraph 4 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u173	Proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Toma Bikov and Petya Avramova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 The registration of a registered road vehicle of an owner which, within two months of the acquisition, fails to comply with its obligation to register the vehicle shall be suspended by service marking in the automated information system.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u174	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5 with its respective content, in accordance with the report on the same. Please vote on § 5 on the Commission report. They voted 143 MPs: 142, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u175	Proposal by Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. The Commission does not accept the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u176	Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Sorry, guys, that's how it works, but because there's a shift in the paragraphs. This is about the annulment of para. 2 in art. 144, namely for the notary certification when transferring registered motor vehicles between owners. The motives with which we propose this thing are in your programme, and in our election program there was a proposal to relieve society from administrative burdens. We believe that notary certification is absolutely unnecessary at the moment. As long as there are two coupons already, there is no need to go to a notary. The buyer and seller can absolutely freely enter into a contract, go to the respective department of the Ministry of Interior, register their car without paying those fees that are paid in the notary offices. Moreover, even at the moment, who does not wish to attend a notary office, has this opportunity to make a transfer of the car without going to a notary. Of course, we don't forbid this thing from happening. Whoever buyer has concerns that buying the car may have any burdens or may have some ownership, or may have any problems with it, of his own free will can go to a notary and confess his security deal, but we don't necessarily do it for every single buyer who buys a car. I think that this proposal should be supported if you are sincere in your desire to ease the Bulgarian citizens in their administrative burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u178	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky! - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u179	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I take the floor as an importer of this proposal. I believe that with the mandatory notary certification of contracts, much of the surplus funds go to notaries, and there is also no guarantee that when the contract is notarised, fraud cannot be committed. I would like to give you an example of the fact that President Parvanov's Mercedes was sold to a notary. I will give you another example of the abuse of notaries: I live in a housing cooperative, where there are still cases and we cannot get notary acts, but some of our colleagues have sold their apartments five times through a notary that violates the Law, but it does not guarantee that when a contract is notarized, it will be protected from relevant abuses. That is why Mr. Svilensky and I have introduced this change to cancel the fee and pass through the notary offices, because I believe that many funds go to the notaries without the necessary legal guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u180	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov! Is the line Mr. Shopov or a statement? A statement. Are there any lines before that? There are no other lines. Mr. Shopov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Don't, guys. It's too early for that. I don't think it's ever gonna be a good time. We're talking about a government sanction here. This state sanction is carried out by a notary and it is about something significant. If we go this way, you will soon say: "So as not to take the notaries some money, let's not go through the notary and the real estate deals. It's just bullshit! That's a child's idea to me. Notary fees are negligible compared to the interest of these transactions and that is not the problem here at all. The notary form has far more important importance. This is not just to register the will of the parties. It is a matter of consequences which are related in view of significant ownership. In such cases, the deal goes through a notary. The question is very legal, colleagues, and I would like to hear here the lawyers from BSP how do they feel about it? The issue is not a problem of the nature of the problems in the Road Traffic Act. The issue here is done and should be a matter of a very significant, large, not only public discussion, but, above all, in legal circles. It's a liberal view, but I'm not surprised. You socialists are close to the liberals, the social liberal idea is clear and I am once again entering a theorization here. The conservative, the serious, the tested in the years, in the centuries, if you will, the feeling and vision on the matter is the conservative. And that's what it is, and don't experiment on it, because we're gonna flood the courts with lawsuits. Then let the judges think it's not easy for them anyway. I can outline at the moment at least a few hypotheses about the consequences that can follow if you do not pass through a notary. It's neither the time nor the place at the moment. This is the place, of course, for such discussions, but we are talking about a very significant and thorough debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u182	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov! First line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your speech, Mr. Shopov. I respect you as long-standing and experienced people's notions, only I'll tell you that what you've drawn is not so black and it's not so scary. And right now, if you decide to sell your car to me, your personal car, and we don't want to go to a notary, you and I are going to the Road Police Department. You stand on one desk, you fill in against three levs of an application for the registration of your car, then we sit on the bench with you, you write a contract that Pavel Shopov sells to Georgi Svilenski car for BGN and I with this contract go to the other counter as this car is no longer registered, and against another fifteen levs I register it. Have you figured out how the situation is going right now? And that's what these people know about buying cars. And why should some people, so-called "taricati" take advantage, while the mass of Bulgarian citizens should go and pay for you needlessly small, but for most of the people negligible large notary fees. Then let's close this time that I told you. This paragraph states that only registered cars are subject to notary certification. What about the other cars? I told you, against three leva, you deregistered against another 15 leva. register the new car. I do not propose any reform in the legal system of Bulgaria, but let the lawyers say the opinion, we say that we must relieve the citizens. And when something can happen, why don't we remove it where it's written in the Law? Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u184	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Shopov for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u185	I was wondering if I should take a line because I'm shocked by the ease with which you illustrate how something easier can happen for citizens? It's clear you can do that. However, I tried to bring depth into thinking, one depth of the problem, to be understood, and I must have been very well understood by the lawyers. And here, while I was listening to you, there were reactions from colleagues who very well understood me. I'm talking about a state sanction, I'm talking about significance of interest, I'm talking about consequences that are visible from the practice, in view of such a thing. The simplest example that I can give you in this regard is the very common practice of people in this way, with some contracts, to transfer cars to each other, and then in such cases usually come terrible consequences. Colleagues, I would advise you in life that none of you do it lightly, even to loved ones, like this, with a contract or without a contract: Here's your car, take the money and be done. Well, this is about a credible date! Do you know what that means? It can be given by a notary. No one can say that the contract, which, as you suggest, will not be antiattended, and if anything happens, the owner answers the one who is nominally the owner. And the parties can take their contracts off the table. I give one of the millions of cases, one of the hypotheses to happen, Mr. Svilensky. Drop this job, don't turn legal peace between institutes, institutes that have been tried so far and have proven absolutely their worth. Don't throw things into chaos! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u186	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. The word has the People's Representative Ivan Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u187	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think that the proposal made is reasonable enough, and the arguments that have been put forward by colleagues are serious enough. Just to remind you of colleagues who have not bothered to visit a foreign country in the European Union, this practice is only not to be in Bulgaria. There should be an intermediary between two persons who, under our Law on Obligations and Contracts, conclude a contract for the sale of a movable item, note what the car is, and there is an intermediary who, for a certain amount, validates the contract to you. This thing happens only in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria from all over the European Union. We're talking about administrative burdens and whatever else you can think of. We want to avoid that burden. There is no problem in France, in Germany to buy a car, going between the two persons and the only institution where the transfer of the car is then certified is the municipality and the services where the cars are registered. This is for European practice, because we are seeking to enter the European Union. What is practically happening in Bulgaria? There are enough institutions in Bulgaria to ensure that a transaction on the transfer of cars will be orderly and will not be abused. And now, under current legislation, we have a two-week period to register a car in a relevant DMV service. Henceforth, any dispute over the antiquating of such a deal is futile. Moreover, the system of registration of cars in Bulgaria itself is reliable enough and sure that such a confessed deal, after the registration of the car, will not be in danger of falling into someone's hands other than the owner who was previously and then the acquirer. Moreover, there is already an automated link between the DMV and the relevant tax office, where the information comes in and the person owes his taxes. We have enough institutions to control this process. We want to remove at the moment a parasitic unit, such as the notaries, so that Bulgarian citizens can actually be relieved both financially and administratively. The resonant step that we need to take is precisely to support and vote on such a proposal, at least to become enough Europeans and to be able to travel proudly in the European Union, to say: "Yes, we, as a German or French citizen, have transferred our car to the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u188	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? Other speeches. I won't. I close the debates and put to the vote the proposal of MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 135 MPs: 40, against 52, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. The time is 14.07 "We have run out of time for today's meeting, which is why I am closing it. Next session tomorrow at 9.00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-13.u189	We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
