ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u1	I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. Honourable Members, allow me to introduce you to the National Assembly's Work Programme for the period 18 January 2017: 1. A solemn ceremony for taking an oath by the newly elected President of the Republic of Bulgaria Rumen Radev and the newly elected Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria Iliana Yotova We propose that this be the first item for Thursday, 19 January 2017, at 10:00 p.m. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. Adopted in first vote on 12 May 2016, extension. 3. Project for a decision to support the continuation of the implementation of the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multifamily Buildings and the actions of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to increase the financial resources to 2 billion. lv. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 15 December 2016. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses. It is a joint project drawn up by the Budget and Finance Committee on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 27 July 2016 with importers: the People's Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 3 December 2015; the People's Representative Petar Slavov and a group of MPs on 3 February 2016 as well as the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 20 April 2016. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Contracts. Importers were Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs on 8 June 2016. He was accepted at the first vote on 19 October 2016. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid. The Council of Ministers was introduced on 31 October 2016. It was adopted on the first vote on 14 December 2016. 7. Draft declaration of continuity between the 43rd and the 44th National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria on the preparation and implementation of the parliamentary dimension of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, 1 January 30 June 2018. We propose that this be the first point for Friday, January 20, 2017. 8. Second vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 1 November 2016. The first vote was adopted on 20 December 2016. 9. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act. Importer was the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2016. He was accepted in the first vote on 16 December 2016. 10. Second vote on a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 3 October 2016. The first vote was adopted on 7 December 2016. 11. Second vote on the Bill to supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importers were Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs on 18 November 2015. He was accepted in the first vote on 7 December 2016. 12. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016. Adopted in the first vote on 21 December 2016. 13. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure of the Area. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 4 November 2016. The first vote was adopted on 16 December 2016. 14. Second vote on the Law on concessions. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2016. Adopted in the first vote on 8 July 2016. 15. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 " 103" including from the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote, honourable Members. They voted 145 MPs: 124 against 6, abstention 15. The National Assembly's work programme for the period 18 January 2017 has been adopted. Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. After him, Mr. Haytov, again for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u2	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose a procedure point twelve of the newly voted National Assembly Work Programme during the week, the second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection from point 12 to become point five, as the Bill introduces European directives and reduces the administrative burden on business. I think these two grounds are sufficient to support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. A reverse opinion? Here you go. The MP Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I have a reverse procedural proposal, or rather a corrective one. I demand to you and to your colleagues from GERB the twelfth point not the fifth, but the sixth point as it is. 5 is the reduction of the legal interest for delay, which concerns the rights of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens when they have cases against a number of types of monopoly. I demand to you, colleague Ivanov, that the point become a sixth, so that it does not shift. 5 on the agenda, for which there is great public interest. You know that in such cases thousands of Bulgarian fates are affected and many people have failed completely undeservedly, as the legal interest for fun in Bulgaria currently has a sanctioning rather than a compensatory character. I appeal to you to support your proposal together, but not to do so. 5 and to become t. 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u5	You want it to be a fifth point? [[Heckling]] We are voting on the proposal of the MP Stanislav Ivanov. 12 of the so-accepted program to become t. 5 and then the points are renumbered. They voted 145 people: 96, against 7, abstention 42. Point 12 becomes t. Five, and then they're all renumbered. Here you are, Mr. Haytov, for procedure. After him for a procedure, the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm also making a suggestion. 6, which is: the changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is really only a single text, supported by the Commission and at second reading, to become a point. 7, actually after the proposal of the colleagues from the Reformation Bloc and after the proposal adopted by colleague Ivanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u7	Wait a minute, Mr. Haytov. Point 6 is quite different in the program. What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u8	Point 11 to go after the point of Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u9	Point 11 to become t. Six?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u10	Mr. Chairman, I'm telling you to stand up. c. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u11	The 12th point becomes the fifth point, from then on all are renumbered. Who do you want to be? Do you want it to be after fifth, because if it's after fifth, it has to be sixth?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u12	In six.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u13	After six, you want it to be seven, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u14	After six, after the Law of Duty and Contracts.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u15	Okay. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Yavor Haytov, i.e. 11, which may be the twelfth one now, anyway, is the second vote on the Bill to supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure, the importer is Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs on 18 November 2015, it is adopted at the first vote on 7 December 2016, to become the so. 7. They voted 142 MPs: 66, against 6, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. The word for procedure has the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm making a procedural proposal. 14 - Second vote on the Law on concessions, to become a t. Six after the change of agenda. The reason for this is that under this bill we have a criminal procedure from the European Union in an advanced phase, and the forty-third National Assembly has already been working on the Bill for six or seven months and it is good to end the Law on concessions at second reading. In order for this to happen, the Bill should be ahead in the daily program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u17	You want to be t. Six?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u18	I want it to be t. 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u19	A reverse opinion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u20	Colleagues, I'm making a reverse offer. I mostly address colleagues from GERB. Excuse me, however, colleagues, the extremely unpleasant situation is being created that all these proposals that you have made for the Law on Environmental Protection, and now for the Law on concessions, which I promise you, we will be looking at it for days, and in the Legal Committee we have probably six sessions dedicated only to this Bill, the National Assembly will look at this from here to the end of the world, if we put it so far today. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] If you really don't want to confirm that the proposal is only to replace the Law on Obligations and Contracts and this penal interest, which in one paragraph we are actually fixing, but we are really solving the problem of hundreds and thousands of Bulgarian citizens, to not be solved, to be stopped in practice by all these lobbying interests that have probably intervened, calling on the phones and wanting this not to happen [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] Then I really don't know what to say. I suggest you: let it be t. 7. It was the right offer before that. It's the most natural thing we can finish in half an hour, and then watch the Law on concessions if we have to by next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u21	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Let's see if we can accept the decision. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Delyan Dobrev. 14, second vote on the Law on concessions, importer of the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2016, adopted on the first vote on 8 July 2016 to be p.o.b. 6. Please vote. They voted 152 MPs: 99, against 24, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask for a re-voting procedure, for the simple reason that I failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u23	Yeah, that's enough. Revoting procedure. Vote 150 MPs: 95, against 29, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. Point 14, in the existing agenda as numbering, becomes item six. People's representative Willy Lilkov for a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to propose that, as the emotions are getting a little heated, tomorrow after the President's oath, i.e. 5 on today's agenda to become t. 1. This point is extremely important and very much please do not try to sink it with such proposals on the agenda. I repeat, tomorrow. 1 in the meeting of the National Assembly to be t. Five of today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u25	We have t. 1, you can only offer it as a t. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u26	Okay, like t. Two, after the President's oath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u27	A reverse opinion? There's no reverse opinion. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Willy Lilkov. 7 from now on our existing agenda, the last accepted, to become t. Two for tomorrow's meeting. They voted 146 MPs: 79, against 4, abstention 63. The motion is accepted. Revoting the People's Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. There are colleagues who didn't vote, there are colleagues who made a mistake in voting... [[(Loud noise and lines on the right. Communicating: ……]] I stress, my fellow Members, the following: the interest that is very relevant to you and very disturbing to you...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u29	Mr. Kirilov, without the substance...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u30	...you say it concerns absolutely the entire people, it concerns only some debtors, but let's get to the debate. [[Noise and lines on the right.]] We'll get to a debate. Don't worry. Interest is not the only issue we need to deal with in the last plenary sittings of parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u31	Revoting procedure. Vote 154 MPs: 75 against 14, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Proposals for inclusion in the agenda under art. 50, para. 3. On the basis of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose to be included as a point in the forthcoming weekly program of the National Assembly for the period 18 January 2017: Draft Decision on the imposition of a moratorium on all construction activities and on the issue of building permits on the territory of the Park "Bedechka", town of Stara Zagora, No 654-02-92, submitted on 22 December 2016 by Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs. The proposal was made by the MPs Dimitar Tanev, Dimitar Delchev, Nastimir Ananiev, Antony Trenchev, Boyka Marinska and Nayden Zelenogorski. When we examined this proposal at the Chairman's Council, there was no report received and I told my fellow Members who participated in the Conference of Presidents that on this basis it would not be put to the vote, only that the Court of Justice announced that there was such a report. Do you keep your offer, Mr. Zelenogorski?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u32	Yeah. Please justify it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman! Colleagues, we support this proposal. In fact, the proposal is adopted by a full majority in the Regional Commission and in the Legal Commission and it is to impose a moratorium on construction in the Stara Zagora Park. You know that there are many active civil protests there, there is a strong civic position in terms of experience through construction, investors to damage one of Stara Zagora's lungs, and Stara Zagora is, I would say, somewhat problematic city in terms of air cleanliness and the battle for oxygen is very important. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u34	What's the matter, Mr. Kirilov? What's it to you? Well, of course, that's the point. He has a proposal for inclusion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u35	So I ask you to support this proposal, as we have also supported it in two committees. Otherwise, we will have to explain to the voters in Stara Zagora why we are opposed to preserving this park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u36	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. Mr. Zenogorski presented his reasons for asking for inclusion on the agenda under art. 50, para. 3. We are voting for proposals to be included in Mr. Nayden Zelenogorski's proposal. They voted 124 MPs: 44, Against 6, abstention 74. The offer is not accepted. Revoting? People's representative Dimitar Tanev for revoting. We can't really talk here anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u37	My fellow Members, I propose a re-voting procedure. There were colleagues who didn't vote. It is extremely important to say that if this point is not accepted...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u38	Thank you, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u39	It's not gonna be a park, it's gonna be a neighborhood.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u40	Revoting procedure. They voted 116 MPs: 51, against 4, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. On the basis of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose to be included as a point in the upcoming weekly program of the National Assembly from 18 to 20 January 2017. The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Obligations and Contracts, No 654-01-81, submitted by Willy Lilkov, Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 8 June 2016. Willy Lilkov, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The proposal is included in the weekly program. [[Noise and lines.]] You're withdrawing him? [[Heckling]] Yeah. Thank you. On the basis of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I submit a proposal for inclusion of a point in the forthcoming weekly programme of the National Assembly for the period from 18 to 20 January 2017. First reading of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, No 654-01-140, submitted by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev on 13 December 2016. The proposal belongs to the importer himself. The proposal is unacceptable.. has not been dealt with by a committee, no deadlines have expired and we will not put it to the vote. Go ahead, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The procedure is for the move of point two of the second vote of the Road Traffic Act to become point four. The reason for the move is to clear two texts on which there is no complete agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u42	Is there a reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u43	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman! There are two texts that need to be cleared, but I suggest replacing point two with point three. We don't need that much time to solve for these two texts, but we have to end this bill. He can't sit unfinished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u44	I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Ivan Valkov to move point two to become point four. Vote 104 MPs: 85 against 7, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Point two becomes point four. There's some kind of renumbering coming up from there, so I hope someone's watching this. Any other suggestions for displacements? I won't. Honourable Members, in relation to tomorrow's first point at 10:00 p.m. A solemn ceremony for taking an oath by the newly elected President of the Republic of Bulgaria Rumen Radev and the newly elected Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Conference of Presidents agreed on the following procedural proposals that I will make now. They are the product of long-standing parliamentary practice. We're not doing anything extraordinary, we're just sticking to this practice. First proposal: plenary sitting on 19 January 2017 Thursday, start at 10:00 p.m. Second proposal: the point to be transmitted directly on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio. Third proposal: to allow the Melnik Bishop Gerasim to accompany His Holiness the Bulgarian Patriarch Neofit. On all three points, consensus was reached by the Conference of Presidents. I'm offering them to you for a vote. They voted 115 MPs: 111, against 1, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted. Messages. Draft and draft resolutions for the period from 11 January to 17 January 2017: On 11 January 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act was adopted. Importers are Ivan Stankov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. On 12 January 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code with importers Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs was adopted. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 17 January 2017, a Law on the conservation of purity in use and development of the Bulgarian language was introduced. Importer is Kiril Dobrev Dobrev. The bill is about to be distributed. ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 4111 of the European Parliament, Sofia, 16 January 2017 declaring as a Member of the European Parliament the next candidate on the list for the release of a Member of the European Parliament With a letter. No 750-06-3 of 16 January 2017 the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva informed the President of the CEC that by letter with ex. No DI 300461 of 13 January 2017 the President of the European Parliament Mr Martin Schulz has informed the National Assembly that in accordance with art. 13, para. 4 of the Act for the election of Members of the European Parliament by direct universal elections and Rule 4, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament Mrs. Iliana Iotova has resigned from 17 January 2017. At a plenary session on 16 January 2017, the European Parliament will consider and declare its seat vacant with effect from 17 January 2017, for this reason it will be grateful under art. 13, para. 2 of the Act shall be informed of the name of the person who shall take the vacancy. Iliana Malinova Iotova was elected Member of the European Parliament by Decision No 575 EP of 30 May 2014 of the Central Election Commission as candidate on the list of Coalition for Bulgaria. On the basis of art. Article 7 (1) and Article 7 (1) 13, § 1 of the Act for the Election of Members of the European Parliament by means of general direct elections, the vacant seat is taken on the next on the list of the same coalition candidate Petar Atanasov Kurumbashev. In the light of the foregoing and on the basis of art. Art. 391 of the Election Code in connection with art. Article 7 (1) and Article 7 (1) 13, § 1 and § 3 of the Act for the Election of Members of the European Parliament by means of a general direct election, the Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing as a member of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria Petar Atanasov Kurumbashev, EGN... from the list of a coalition of parties. The declared Member of the European Parliament shall be given the certificate. On 13 January 2017, the National Assembly received a Report on the implementation of the Plan for preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council for the European Union in 2018 on 30 November 2016, adopted by Decision No 29 of the Council of Ministers of 2017. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the chairmen and co-chairmen of the parliamentary groups, the presidents of the Standing Committees and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. On 13 January 2017 the National Statistical Institute received information about consumer price indices for December 2016. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO SUPPORT THE CONTINUATION OF THE APPLICATION OF THE NATIONAL PROGRAM FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY OF THE MULTIFAMIL LIVE BUILDINGS AND THE ACTION OF THE MINISTER COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA TO REDUCE THE FINANCIAL RESTURANCE OF 2 MILLION. LW. Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u45	♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to support the continuation of the implementation of the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multifamily Housing and the actions of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to increase the financial crisis to 2 billion. BGN, No 602-03-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers The Commission's meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, as well as representatives of professional and civil organisations. On behalf of the importer, the draft decision was presented by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova. In his article Minister Pavlova pointed out that a detailed analysis of the implementation of the National Programme has been made in the report on the proposal for a decision. The program stimulates the work of small and medium-sized companies on the principle of a company for a building in a city. The needs of the building fund in Bulgaria for renovation and renovation are great, as a large part of it, especially the buildings built by industrial means are very outdated. The impact of the implementation of the programme is already present. The bills for heating and energy consumption in the renovated buildings under the programme have been reduced dramatically. To date, around two thousand and two hundred buildings and block sections with more than 148 000 homes are covered, for which the resources of one billion leva were spent in 2015. All payments shall be made only in the case of 100% MRI carried out under strict control by the mayors, banks, investment and construction supervision. The positive attitude of the population is also visible, and so far there are more than 6,000 people willing to join the programme and 4000 are waiting for approval. For this reason, the current draft decision provides for the granting of another billion leva in 2017, which, as well as the first billion, will be guaranteed and secured by the Bulgarian Development Bank, and in all additional expenditures there is an agreement between the Bulgarian Development Bank and the Ministry of Finance. In the course of the discussion, opinions were expressed that the programme should continue because no one loses to it, on the contrary, will have a very serious energy saving effect that will release about 1500 megawatts of electricity, which in the coming years will be realized and will cover the costs incurred. On the basis of the discussion and the outcome of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 9 votes for, without opposition and 4 votes abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision to support the continuation of the implementation of the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multi-Family Housing Buildings and the actions of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to increase the financial resources to 2 billion. BGN, No 602-03-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. The floor has the Vice-President of the Commission Diana Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u47	At a regular meeting held on 12 January 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the draft Decision to support the continuation of the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for Multifamily Housing Buildings and the actions of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to increase the financial resource to 2 billion. BGN, No 602-03-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 December In accordance with The document with importer Council of Ministers was presented by Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. By Decision No 1059 of 15 December 2016, the Council of Ministers approved the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Report on the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for Multi-Family Housing, adopted by Decree of the Council of Ministers No 18 of 02 February 2015. The national programme is in line with the EU's strong conviction for the contribution of energy efficiency to sustainable Community development. Energy efficiency has therefore been identified as a lasting priority in the development of the EU by 2020 and in the long-term horizon by 2050. In view of the circumstances of the programme, it was imperative that it be refined, which led to several amendments and additions of PMS No 18 from February 02, 2015. Minister Pavlova touched on what the effects of the implementation of the programme are on social, economic and environmental. They are visible and measurable. Bulgaria is the country with the lowest energy efficiency of the building fund as a whole. Some 600 small and medium-sized enterprises are involved in the program. Construction companies selected as implementing companies under the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria; it affects about 3 million. people, a total of 2022 are the buildings that are subject to the implementation of the programme for which contracts have been concluded with the Development Bank, of which more than 1000 buildings are already under process and implementation procedure, such as such and over 200 completed buildings, changes in the shape of the cities where the project is implemented, households have felt a reduction in their electrical bills. energy by about 50%. The amount of contracts concluded by the bank has reached almost BGN 1 billion, which justifies the reason to temporarily appeal for the suspension of new contracts until a decision is taken, given that the government is resigned, for the continuation of the program as an application period, which expired at the end of 2016. The need to extend the deadline and the resource under the programme with another billion levs is strategically important for the country. The program is apolitical and is aimed at all Bulgarians. Undoubtedly, the long-term vision and strategy, creating this programme, as well as other documents related to the renovation of the residential fund in the country as a whole, shows that such a type of programme in Bulgaria should continue to exist in the next at least 10 years in order to cover not only panel buildings that are now in focus, but also to expand to all types of residential buildings in the country, not only the multifamily, but subsequently the single family residential buildings. That's how it's written in the strategic documents. The report approved by the Council of Ministers contains detailed information on what has been achieved so far and what is expected in the future. Support from the National Assembly is necessary in view of the transparency of the spending of funds under the programme and the long-term financial commitment for the next at least 10 years, according to the provisions of the Public Finance Act. After presenting and discussing the draft decision, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 8 votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... BGN, No 602-03-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 December In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Next, a report from the Energy Commission. It will be introduced to you by the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, allow me first to make a procedural proposal for admission to the hall of Angel Gekov, Executive Director of the Bulgarian Development Bank, and Nikolay Nankov Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u50	We vote on the proposal. 70 MPs voted: 69 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u51	♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to support the continuation of the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for Multifamily Housing and the actions of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to increase the financial resources to 2 billion. BGN, No 602-03-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 December In accordance with At its regular meeting on 12 January 2017, the Energy Commission discussed a draft decision to support the continuation of the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for Multifamily Housing Buildings and the actions of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to increase the financial resource to 2 billion. BGN 602-03-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 December 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nikolay Nankov. The draft decision was presented by Mr. Nikolay Nankov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, who divided the arguments in favour of continuing the National Programme into four groups: economic, fiscal, social and environmental. In view of the scale of the National Energy Efficiency Programme of multifamily residential buildings, employment and increased financial revenues are observed both in the construction sector and in relation to manufacturers of construction materials, engineering, architectural and design companies, transport industry, warehouses and logistics centres. This concerns directly all companies implementing the Programme and their accompanying types of businesses and employees in the aforementioned sectors. Due to the intensity of construction and repair activities, economic recovery, employment increase and unemployment reduction in whole regions, respectively increases the income of whole households, and hence increase domestic consumption, a major indicator and an engine of economic growth. According to the provided data from the branch organizations, employed and engaged in the implementation of the programme are approximately 80 000 people, not including management and accompanying staff. The immediate social impact of the Programme helps reduce the cost of heating households between 45-55%, improving health conditions for life, creating a pleasant living environment (improved and renovated common areas and surrounding area). It should also be noted that the more natural appearance of the finished buildings compared to the rest. Given that in the territory of the country, the group of disadvantaged vulnerable persons is approximately 1,1 million. people, through the measures implemented under the National Energy Efficiency Programme of multi-family residential buildings, are also supported by these persons. The environmental effect is expressed in reducing the release of harmful carbon emissions into the atmosphere. Mr. Nikolay Nankov presented in summary the data from the National Energy Efficiency Program of multifamily residential buildings. The current data on 10 January 2017 show: 5695 registered associations of owners; 4685 submitted applications for funding; 4030 contracts between municipalities and owners' associations; 3810 applications for financing to the Bulgarian Development Bank; 2022 concluded contracts for financing between the municipality, governor and BBR; the number of dwellings to be renovated within these 2022 buildings is 147 461, with the residential area equal to 11 361 795 sq. m; the number of residents who will benefit from the improvements is more than 340 000; the expected energy savings from the measures implemented in the renovated homes will be 975 226 Mwh per year; the amount of saved greenhouse emissions will be 319 ktCO2 per year; the buildings with activities started are 1921, with 203 renovated buildings, 549 at different stages of construction activities, 368 are signed with an engineering contract without starting activities under the SMR. The data from the register of the Bulgarian Development Bank on 11 January 2017 show the concluded anexes to the contracts for targeted funding amounting to BGN 902 044 136.38, the amount used in the contracts for targeted financing is BGN 446 787 021,35. After the presentation of the draft decision, a discussion followed. People's representative Delyan Dobrev said that the National Program, besides raising the standard of living and quality of life through energy efficiency and reduced final consumption of energy in consumers, would also lead to the saving of approximately 150 megawatts of generating power that could be realised on the market at times of peak consumption. Ms. Magdalena Tasheva asked the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to provide the Energy Commission with information on the addresses of the buildings completed and adopted by the admission committees so that the MPs can personally visit the buildings. Mr. Ramadan Atalay expressed support for the National Programme by proposing to consider its extension with the inclusion of single-family buildings as eligible for funding. Mr. Nikolay Nankov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, explained that the necessary analysis of Mr. Ramadan Atalay's proposal will be carried out, and Mrs. Magdalena Tasheva will be prepared and forwarded with the requested information to the Energy Commission. After the discussion was concluded and on the basis of the vote, the Energy Committee with 12 votes, 1 against the House and 4 abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision to support the continuation of the implementation of the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multi-Family Housing Buildings and the actions of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to increase the financial resources of 2 billion. BGN 602-03-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 December 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. On behalf of the resigning minister Lilyana Pavlova. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u53	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the opportunity to present on behalf of the importer the proposed draft decision of the National Assembly to support the continuation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme and the proposal to increase its resource from 1 billion to 2 billion. lv. Just two years ago in this Chamber, I presented to you the decree adopted by the Council of Ministers and the decision for the establishment of the National Energy Efficiency Programme. I think this is the largest socio-economic programme aimed at Bulgarian citizens directly, directly. Programme, which gives 100% subsidy, 100% grant support to all Bulgarian citizens living in the territory of the country without territorial restriction, in the territory of all 265 municipalities, where there are multi-family residential buildings of the type What have we achieved in the past two years? To date, I can say that we have almost six thousand associations of owners of this type of multi-family residential buildings that are willing to join the Programme, regardless of the fact that the Programme started hard in 2015, started with a very strong negative anti-campaign with attempts to scare Bulgarian citizens for someone to take their homes or pay them or stay homeless and so on. I am glad that people saw the results, saw the benefits, saw that the program is only and only and entirely aimed at them, to give them warmer, more beautiful, more cozy homes. To date we have approved for financing and concluded agreements with more than two thousand buildings that are under realization, to a different extent of realization. Two hundred and three of them are fully completed, over 550 are in the process of carrying out construction and installation activities. We certainly do not allow this type of activity at the moment in the winter period, because at temperatures below 5 degrees we cannot afford this type of activity, but under favourable weather conditions the repairs to these over 500 buildings will continue. More than 1000 buildings are buildings which are in a procedure for selecting a contractor or a procedure for technical, energy or constructive audit and are able to start their implementation during the construction season of 2017. Something very important. As information on the Programme, I will add that we have over 2,000 agreements and buildings that are ready to be approved and financed under the Programme, of course, with a positive decision, if the National Assembly wishes and support to continue. The program has three main directions, three main effects that it aims to implement. These are the social effect, the economic effect and the environmental effect. Starting with the social effect, as I said, the program is the largest social agenda aimed at all citizens, without dividing them by political, party, religious or other principle. This is extremely important. Currently from 265 municipalities on the territory of the country, I can say that in all 28 districts, in each of the districts are realized and there are approved buildings for financing. There are no discriminated against settlements or discriminated against areas which have not been admitted to implement projects under the Programme. This is very important. Of 265 municipalities there are not all municipalities and not everywhere there are many or large numbers of such residential buildings, but in the territory of 165 of them are already realized and there are buildings that are approved for financing. In terms of the economic effect, it was extremely important, especially in 2016 with regard to support for small and medium-sized companies in the construction industry, small and medium-sized companies manufacturers of construction materials, suppliers of window frames and other types of materials. This was a very important support and a very important focus of the Programme. The program is open to all small and medium-sized companies in the country because it is they who are the engine of the implementation of the Programme. Today, we are reporting to you that we have succeeded over 570 construction companies throughout the country participated directly, directly in the implementation of the construction and installation activities under the Programme, and beyond those over 570 small and medium-sized companies that participated in the construction process, hundreds more are the companies, producers, suppliers, sub-contractors, who were also involved in the implementation of the Programme. This was extremely important in 2016 not only in terms of the possibility to provide work for these companies, but also because, as we expected, after the completion of the previous programming period in 2015 and still not everywhere the new projects started from the new programming period by 2016, it was important that there was no major delay or blocking of the construction process or less work for the construction industry. It is precisely the renovation programme, until one programming period is completed, while the projects with European funding from the new programming period are being launched, it is this national, budgetaryly funded programme that has enabled the construction industry to take a breath of air to work, to implement its projects and to ensure employment. Data from the Statistical Institute show that we have accordingly an increased number of employees, a reduction in unemployment, of employees, especially in the construction sector in the past 2016, so from this point of view the effect has been achieved. Where we have fully completed buildings, buildings that have already passed, a heating season passes, statistics, data also show very good results in terms of saving household spending, saving the costs of heating and lighting housing, as this effect, apart from the beautiful effect, apart from changing the shape of our cities, of whole neighborhoods in some places and of specific buildings and around block spaces, is extremely important to say that this saves about 50% of the costs of each household, of each family in heating and lighting costs. When we talk about households and families, we can say that at the moment with the funds, with the first billion under the Programme, with these programs that have been implemented, we have 340 thousand people, Bulgarian citizens covered by the investment under this Programme, which represents almost 150 thousand apartments as consumers, as it is very difficult to give more precise statistics in terms of number of buildings, number of block sections, as the buildings of panel construction are different. Some are very high as floors, but have two or three entrances, others have 10-12 entrances and a series of block sections bound in each other, but for those over two thousand buildings there are actually much more, several thousand block sections that we finance, which we support. These are generally the motives of the Programme. What we offer to your attention, given the great interest, given the ready, concluded and waiting for more than two thousand buildings ready to join and continue to implement or implement those of the two thousand, the National Assembly will support the long-term extension of the Programme, as well as the extension of its duration, the extension of the period for adoption of documents, the conclusion of contracts under the Programme and the increase of its resources by another 1 billion. BGN, in order to be able to have financial collateral, behind which municipalities, which are the main engine for the implementation of the Programme, an engine that fulfils the objectives of the Programme, to continue their actions, to conclude contracts, to investigate these buildings and to implement all measures not only for energy efficiency. That's a very important difference, I'd say. This Programme does not include only measures for the energy efficiency of these residential buildings. This programme also includes activities related to major renovations, ongoing renovations, accompanying repairs, technical, constructive strengthening of these buildings, as we know the situation of the residential fund, of the building fund, especially of panel buildings, is quite bad, so our efforts are imposed not only on the need for energy efficiency. It is indisputable, but there is also a need for major, targeted repairs to the rooftops, to the overall constructive, sustainable strengthening of these buildings, as their lives must be renewed, and this is a huge chance for all of these Bulgarian households to be a fact. Thank you for your attention. We rely on your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u54	Thank you, my dear Minister, for resigning. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva. Mr. Honest Veselinov after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u55	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am coming out here to urge you not to stamp, not to take the role of a rubber seal of this yet another multibillion-dollar gesture of the ruling party. Here's what I can offer you now. On 12 January, the Energy Commission presented this report to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works present here. I can offer it to anyone. Any objective person will immediately find that this cannot be a report against which you want 1 billion from the Bulgarian taxpayer. This is a saltless fiction that sometimes passes into live advertising and propaganda. Here you can find both literary and stylistic pearls. By the way, we just heard one of those. Mrs. Pavlova said that with this Sanitation Program, households would save 50% of the heating costs and, notice, lighting! How are they gonna save 50% of the lighting costs? Do you have any idea? Are you going to give them white nights by sanitizing them? Another point is that there is no report in this report. It's unclear where the first billion went. The attendee at the meeting, Deputy Minister Nankov, said that, I quote: 355,000. lv. These are paid off by the Bulgarian Development Bank to municipalities and their counterparties for services that precede the renovation itself. I asked where are the next, the rest of the amount, the billionth! Well, here they are: 926 million, said the Deputy Minister, are in the annexes, which the Bulgarian Development Bank concluded with the district governments and municipalities, as the contract between the owners' association in a panel block is trilateral. It is concluded between the municipality and the district government. However, in it, the Deputy Minister said, there are no financial parameters. The financial parameters are then determined between the municipality or the district government, between the local authorities and the Bulgarian Development Bank. What does that mean? That the people who bet their apartments and were responsible for the debts, the debts of this association, this legal entity, have signed a white check. [[Noise and lines.]] Sanitation can cost as much as it comes out here, about 450,000 per building, but the Bulgarian Development Bank will issue an annex in which it is estimated at 1 million, and it is written in the contracts that no one can leave the association not just until the guarantee deadline expires, but until the debt is repaid until the investment is paid up if I have to use their stylistics. That is, we are currently receiving a proposal to sign another draft of the ruling GERB party. I will not speak here that absolutely unclear are such moments, for example: what is done with the apartments of the owners, who, seeing the threat, refused to enter the association? How do you sanitize them, Mrs. Pavlova? Get out there and explain. Or don't you sanitize them? You're staying that way, the stains on the facades? Again I call: colleagues, in these last days we see that they are very quick GERB. They are in a hurry to release that plundering and anti-Bulgarian Law on concessions, on eternal concessions, on 100-year concessions. Now they are in a hurry to arrange another 1 billion before they have counted the previous billion, which of course the treasury will be repaid to the Bulgarian Development Bank, i.e. by each of us. Therefore, I call on: let us have a little more dignity. Let's think about the average person, because this scheme is a way for these associations to be bankrupt, for example, from the second half of 2018, and people to become tenants of their own homes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people representative Iskren Veselinov. After him, the people representative Georgi Turnovaliyski.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u57	Dear Minister, dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! About two months ago in this Chamber, the Patriotic Front and the United patriots submitted a proposal to increase the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners, because in just the last two years we have 30% growth of pensioners at risk, pensioners who have fallen below the poverty line. You didn't support us, you accused us of populism, you said there was no money. On the very same day, the government of the Republic of Bulgaria, already resigned, voted two billion and two hundred, if memory serves, a budget surplus. Distribute it as a billion went for the sanitization, which is obviously an emblem, a profile of populism that GERB has chosen to preach in view of the upcoming elections. It's a program we haven't supported at all. This is a point in the government's programme with which the Patriotic Front disagreed, and one of the four positions in this programme, on which we have not agreed and have never had any commitment to support it. We were right and I'm telling you now, two years later! It is said that this program is social. No, it's not social because it's not aimed at the needy. It does not investigate the needs of the specific sender and there are numerous cases of renovated housing of extremely well secured citizens, even millionaires, as it is not, of course, just paneling. It is also about the EPC and all other forms of industrial construction that are eligible for funding. It is said that it covers the territory of the whole country. This is also not true because it is aimed solely at industrialized construction, which is a fact in large cities. Of course, the lion's pie will again be won by the city of Sofia, which has become the case of the political party GERB, which pours billions in which the European funds, which we pretend to delete the difference in the development of the regions, have turned Sofia into a medium European city, raised the incomes to three times more than those for example in Vidin, but for Northern Bulgaria, for Northwestern Bulgaria, there are, of course, thunderous declarations, programs, but there are no real actions. These two billion that you want to spend on renovations are equal to the highway, which has no secured funding. This one billion you now want to spend, let's announce that it will be spent on renovations, is equal to the highway from Ruse to Veliko Tarnovo, one time killer, which each week has 5 victims. We read in the news, we click with language, but we do not do anything there either. This is not even right-wing populism in itself, because it does not lead to investment in something that leads to development leads to consumption. You say one of the positive effects is how the shape of cities and facades has changed. Yeah, they're fresher painted, but nowhere did they come to what they wanted to unify the facades and return to their architectural appearance, or even to the same architectural view of these buildings. Each terrace remains different colored, circled and so on, i.e. this as an effect has not been achieved, Madam Minister. You say we have an extremely good energy effect, which is also not true. Investments to achieve economy for one megawatt hour amounts to 300,000. £680. When building new power we are talking about investment from the order of 2000 to 2500 BGN. for megawatt hours. I have bothered to ask experts for a reference for such type of energy efficiency projects. When investigating 100 such projects, the average cost of achieving economy of megawatts is between 1500 BGN, i.e. your price is more than twice as high as in private projects. It makes sense that this is because in this case we have a spending of government money, in which the owner who should be looking for the most rational solution is not interested, he just gets a gift. Last but not least, you mention the benefits of these 600 companies. Yes, we agree, these 600 companies benefit. But I'm asking: $150,000. the apartment that you're going to sanitize for two billion if you consider these two billion in new construction of 500 leva. The square meter, that's 66,000. The apartment, newly built, brand new, sanitized, including with the ground under them. Wasn't it more regular if we're going to change the housing fund, if we're going to, if we're going to, active demographic policy, we're going to give young families some opportunity to settle in, move on to this option? Of course, the decision has been made, it is already consumed and this is a rhetorical question. In general, however, for us, not least, remains the failure of this programme, even from the point of view of the criteria that you set yourself at the beginning of the mandate, because it was then said that on the second year we would have 50% sanitized by these 6,000. buildings mentioned as possible scope of the programme. Right now we have 200. That's three or five percent. That is, even from the point of view of the great boasting of how attractive it is and how well the program works.. No, it does not work well! Of course, we will not be able to cool GERB's enthusiasm to accept this decision because elections are coming, because this will obviously be one of the emblems of their governance. The emblem, by the way, is quite questionable, as I have bothered to tour some of the newly renovated buildings. I enjoyed the mold in the apartments, the poorly mounted dograms, the ledges that bring the water back into the building, and a number of other things that are a technical detail, but important because it shows our right that when a gift is made, when there is no self-participation and control respectively by the one who is interested in the work, the results are always bad. In general, the Patriot Front will not support this draft decision. We strongly hope that the next government of the country will revise it and direct the resource that we will all pay, because for the renovation of the blocks in Sofia, with the VAT they pay, with the pennies they count for their bread [[GERB lines]] , will finance it including the old people in the mountain neighborhoods. They won't see any use in this program. Even here there is an element of discrimination because they have no way to apply for this program and make their own housing energy efficient. We hope that the next governance will revise it and really focus on meaningful social programmes that fight poverty, which create conditions for development, for regional development, including, and which will be useful for the whole society and not for part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u58	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? Here's a line, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u59	Dear Mr. Veselinov, your speech in some parts was correct and constructive, so I decided to give you a reply. However, it is not correct to compare the pensions and the money needed for pensions with the National Program or the Highway Hemus. These are completely different subjects. In the same way, we can compare the value of the fence and the money spent with the fence, and why did we give it for a fence and not for pensions, right? It is not good to enter into such a political debate, because we know that both need one and the other. However, you are right that the programme cannot continue to be 100% after today's decision that the aid intensity needs to be reduced. I am sure that this will happen from any government formed after the April parliamentary elections, because not only is self-participation by the owners of apartments, on the floor property, but it will ensure a larger scope of the programme and a larger volume of completed SRI, when we attract both private investment and investment of the owners to this programme. There are options in which this can be done with an advance by the municipal administration and subsequent payment through tax buildings or by other different options, which I would be happy to discuss in more detail when we have time. However, you are not correct about the fact that there are no economic effects in the Programme, because the economic effects are not so much in terms of construction companies, suppliers of materials and so on, but rather they are expressed in the fact that the savings, not being allocated to electricity of 1 million megawatts, are about 200 million. lv. Each year, 200 million each year. BGN, these funds will remain in households and will be given for increased consumption by these households. This is just the range of the first 22 blocks. When the program continues, that 200 million. lv. It's going to be 300 million. lv. And so on. These saved millions either go back into consumption that same year, or people save them in bank accounts. Whatever they do, it helps the economy. You know that the 3.6% growth that we recorded in 2016 was due very much to increased consumption. That is, this has led to higher economic growth. Even the money saved in a year or two in the medium term becomes investments because the banks lend it as loans, plainly speaking. And you don't have the right bill, because I don't know how you're doing it. I don't know how you're doing it. I don't know that 150,000 sanitized homes are equal to 66,000 new apartments built at 500 euros per square meter, because the average value of this renovation or the upper limit is currently around 65 euros, and you say 500 euros for the new construction. The difference is nine times! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Here's your next line, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Veselinov, I'm asking you to do this. I made one removal from your speech where you mention two billion for 150 thousand apartments. If the account is accurate and correct in your statement, this means that the renovation of a flat comes out approximately 14 thousand. lv. Anyone can figure that out. However, you did not ask perhaps the question that Mr. Dobrev raised to some extent. 65 euros, but I do not know about a square meter of sanitized dwelling? So that's the other question, how much does the sanitization cost per square meter? The question is whether it includes the construction of a constructive plan, the building's constructive strengthening, the energy passport................................................................................................ [[Comments in GERB.]] That is why I am addressing my colleague because it is his speech and it is right for him to address the minister, respectively, to respond. These are the points of disagreement. And if I may, I have something else in the social sphere that started my speech, Mr. Veselinov. He said about one of our proposals. Mr. Veselinov, we had two suggestions. I would ask you to recall the second, as if we were talking about the most social agenda, this was the most socially fair proposal, namely the indexing of pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u62	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u63	First of all, I will say that the figure of.150 thousand apartments. I just heard it in the hall and use it because Minister Pavlova used it. I haven't seen her in reports, at least I've never met her before. I divided 2 billion by that number. In terms of the figures per square meter, block 101 in the area of "Medden mine" Burgas, the price is 245 BGN. per square meter, not 65 euros. The price actually doubles. There are massive contracts of over 100 euros. I don't have the whole sample, and I can't handle it, but I'm giving specific examples. Regarding the question of colleague Dobrev about the priorities and that we should not oppose them, the only reason we oppose them in this case is because in one case we are talking about things available to the entire Bulgarian population, for a service to which everyone can become a consumer, while in this case not every Bulgarian citizen can become such a consumer. However, there is a ray of hope that you agree to co-financing because it is one of the most significant vices of this Programme, which is why we have not supported it so far. In general, this needs to be reconsidered. For us public resources must be directed towards services accessible to the whole of society.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. There's a word for a statement from Mr. Turnovallisky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u65	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! I will start my speech from where you started, Mrs. Pavlova, from 22 February 2015, when in this House the debate on questions was held by colleagues from our parliamentary group with a proposal for the National Assembly to take a decision, one of the points at which it was required the Council of Ministers to submit the Programme to be debated in this House. You, of the ruling majority, did not accept this proposal, made another decision and adopted the Programme without it being debated. In her speech in the Chamber, Mrs. Pavlova mentioned that this should not bother us that the program is on the Ministry's website and anyone can meet it. But behind this programme are serious public funds, which I think are being spent in violation of the Public Finance Act. In the debate there were questions to the Minister about how the Programme will be financed and why the 2015 budget lacks funds under the Programme. The answer from you, Mrs. Pavlova, was that this is perfectly normal because in 2015 it will pay the Bulgarian Development Bank and in 2016 it will be a fact in the budget. Only that didn't happen! Not only in 2016, but it also did not happen in the 2017 budget. Here you recorded in your report that for 2017 a potential funding opportunity is envisaged. What does the State Budget Act mean about a potential opportunity?! And what is most disturbing to me is that your report states that the draft act does not have a direct or indirect impact on the state budget for 2016. That how you paid this 1 billion. BGN, if it does not have an impact on the 2016 budget?! It's working! This has been shown by the Decree of 2 December 2016, which you have accepted and which approves additional costs. You're financing with public resources private property. Now you want approval for another billion. BGN, no analysis, no motive why you want 1 billion. Why not 2, why not 3 or 10 billion, although this was also debated in the debates?! The report you apply has no financial justification approved by the Minister of Finance because there is no financial justification. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, if this Sanitation Program is an election promise of GERB, government policy, National Program, why didn't it become part of any of the budgets adopted over the years, nor in the three-year budget forecasts, but is financed as additional costs by a decree of the Council of Ministers?! How is the government's main policy a national programme an additional cost?! There's nothing normal about it! It is even less legitimate to spend billions of public resources without the sanction of parliament and in the dark! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u66	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u67	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am going out on the stand, perhaps rightly, because in January 2015 at our request to Minister Pavlova, which then grew into a parliamentary debate precisely on the National Programme, we made a proposal to actually make a national programme to cover the entire housing fund in which to be clear sources of funding, to have a financial mix of public funds, from a budget, from European funds, from public-private partnerships and others, to be clear what is the capacity of the survey, a roadmap, the Bulgarian to know, to find himself in the years when and where there will be an opportunity and how his home can be sanitated. In fact, according to the philosophy of our party and those who supported it, we were looking for a national and solidarity effect for the whole residential and building fund of the country. In the first part of our proposal, colleagues, you then ignored it with a little more self-confidence, with a mood and you started to realize the program. There is no doubt that for many of the Bulgarians this program is good, it really has an environmental, economic and social effect. Look what's happening. So far, what Minister Pavlova shared about 203 to 210 finished buildings in construction works, in construction, and in construction around 550 or with one billion and 750 thousand buildings. Let me remind you that only in a large-scale capacity are 18,900 blocks. I will remind you that more than 50% of these apartment blocks are in the four major cities of Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna, Burgas and that there lives more than a million and 700 thousand people. So we've done about, no 5% of this fund. So we're talking about philosophy, if it's going to be a national program, it's going to have clarity about scope, if it's going to be about panels, there's going to be clarity when we're going to make them all, for how many years, with what resources, with what resources? That certainly did not happen. Here, however, because we are the Bulgarian Parliament and we speak on behalf of the Bulgarian citizens, there are several things. We've lost control of the program. The Ministry of Finance prepared state guarantees, in parliament we had to make a decision to make the collateral for the Development Bank, the Ministry of Regional Development with the commitment of the Council of Ministers to be responsible for the Programme, made the methodical commitments. You threw the mayors' responsibility because they were doing public procurement by giving them corridors up to BGN 360. per square meter. After that, the market and public speaking went back to BGN 280. And now it's about 200 leva. with VAT per square meter. We believe that this public resource could make twice as many buildings. I know that Minister Pavlova will say: Surely someone will say how many buildings are built constructively because very few housing blocks if there is constructive strengthening. The negotiators here were right. When you give people who will spend not their own, but a public resource up to BGN 360. per square meter, they say, "Yes, we have to absorb them." But when we, as the National Assembly, say that we speak and control the public resource of the Bulgarian people, which we have to ensure as control here, I think we also have a responsibility as the National Assembly to know exactly what this Programme is about. Perhaps there will be a majority to pass this Programme for the next stage. I'm not talking about the gap between Minister Pavlova and Minister Goranov. During the summer of Manol Genov's questioning, Minister Goranov said more than one billion projects have been agreed. In the report, we say there are about a billion of us right now. My sense of space is that a lot more money has been agreed on than a billion dollars. That there was a violation of the Law, there was no dispute, there was a talk here before me. I appeal to the Minister still resigned and to those who will accept the government. Control is needed for every lev that goes, implementation of the projects is necessary if they are to be implemented, with the awareness that this is a resource of the Bulgarian people. We will again propose, and we will still want a national programme for the entire building fund, if this will continue as a policy, to be clear to the Bulgarian people, on the principle of solidarity. It is not possible for the grandmother from Turyan to have a small village near Smolyan, where she has the windows and is cold, and the people who died of frostbite in Kryschovo to deprive one of the public resources during this billion, who came at the end of the year and in parallel to making quality of life elsewhere with the quacking lack of solidarity in Bulgarian society. As such a view, we will refrain from supporting the Programme and will ask above all for control on behalf of the Minister, control of what has happened so far in the implementation of the Programme and compulsory National Programme on the principle of solidarity, because it is neither national nor solidarity at present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u68	Thank you for your speech, Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? There aren't any. Madam Minister, you have had a lot of comments and comments. At the end of the debate, you will have the opportunity to take the floor. The next speech is the public representative Mr. Alexander Nenkov. Here you are, dear Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am sincerely pleased that the discussion of the National Energy Efficiency Programme and the release of an additional billion by chance or not coincided with the end of the life of the Forty-third National Assembly and the end of the government of Borisov 2. I'll tell you why. On this Programme, a few years ago, we started talking and commenting on how to build it, how to finance it, who to be in its scope, who to have this opportunity. Since she's really sociable, we had a few options. Option one which, until now, under various financial instruments or operational programmes, homeowners who live in multi-family residential buildings have co-financing. The fact is, however, that until now, the programmes that have been acting have not produced a good result. You are very well aware when people have to take money out of their pocket, they are usually much more skeptical about the effect of the end product and about giving money. We therefore started with the other option, because the issue is really very pressing, requires very serious work, requires a lot of effort not from a single government, but from all the governments from now on, as we are very far behind in this process. In fact, our motive to start with it being a grant at the beginning is precisely to give rise to public interest. I think that's why I said earlier, I am very glad that it coincides with the cabinet of Borisov and the forty-third National Assembly, because now in the Minister's report we can actually see what the real effects of this Programme are. The very fact that it is estimated somewhere around 1 million. Megawatt hours a year saved electricity, these are.. colleague Dobrev just said between 150 and 200 million. lv. per year, it's really money saved by these people taking advantage of this program, which will go into the economy in one way or another. The very fact that the shape of these buildings is changing, the very fact that the price of these properties is rising, because you are very well aware that such a building increases its value. The very fact that I say it for a reason at the end, but it may actually be one of the most important things is the constructive strengthening of these buildings. Colleagues, you know that much of these buildings are already at the end of their constructive life course. Therefore, we must go in this direction from now on more and more intensively. This is not about one or two billion I agree with, there must be control, every lev of the Bulgarian taxpayer must be an expressive one. For these two years since the Programme has started, many of the colleagues, many of the parliamentary groups, not to engage in political attacks, have said many things about this Programme, not to mention how money is spent to the point that people will get stolen apartments and such baseless accusations that ultimately have had their effect because many people have been affected by these negative assessments and speeches. Now, nowadays, seeing that 6,000.. we have a total of 6,000 associations of owners who are ready, waiting for this Programme, the very fact that there is such interest, seeing the neighbours around you, seeing what they are saving as heat, it is obvious that the Programme is giving its result and I am very glad that today we have an opportunity to talk about this topic. Another thing I'd like to say is, well, everyone's talking against the program or at least almost everyone's not good, it's not good enough, it's not solid enough, it's better to raise the money for pensions or any of these. All right, fellow Members, if we are against this Programme, what do we offer? What's the alternative? The alternative is for these blocks to sit in the way that I'm sure you like it, too, very well aware of their constructive sustainability at what stage it is and that they have come out of service. So what do we suggest? Let's not do anything like this and see what happens! No, my fellow Members, this is not right! I agree that the Programme should be developed, I agree that co-financing should be sought from all residents in these buildings and this is my understanding and a large part of my colleagues just say what was the motive for launching the Programme in this way. I agree that the Programme should be developed not only for multifamily residential buildings, but for the future and for the single family. This depends on the will of all MPs from now on in the following parliaments and subsequent governments. What alternative have we given so far? Instead of investing some of taxpayers' money in something useful, something that people will feel directly as a financial statement, and so far, just to remind you, a few weeks ago, we gave a billion and two hundred thousand for one or two reactors that would come from Russia at some point. What are we gonna do with these reactors? So two and a half billion went to waste. These two and a half billion, if we had invested them for example in energy efficiency, although it is really not good to make such comparisons, because things are different, but I mean that these two and a half billion so far, at this point, money has been wasted. They have brought nothing as added value to the Bulgarian economy, nor to taxpayers, nor to any of the citizens. Colleagues, I appeal to putting aside my tight party interests, given the fact that we are in an election campaign, to support the Programme because it is a good thing. If there is one thing that bothers you, something that can be improved today Minister Pavlova is a minister, tomorrow it may be someone else, the question is that the program is going in this direction, not to lose pace, but, on the contrary, to look for an opportunity to increase the pace and only in this way there is a real chance that all these blocks, opportunities that are revealed through energy efficiency in order to save, which the Bulgarian citizens will actually feel, will be a fact. I appeal to support the Programme and hope that the next majorities, parliaments, offices not only go at these rates, which are not at all small, but, if they can, increase them. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. [[Applause from GERB.]] - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u71	I appeal for less general talk and more substance in the statements, Mr. Nenkov. One thing you have to do is go out there and tell me who's going to pay back the billions. Who's going to return it? Exactly one year ago February 2016, your group voted for state guarantees for a loan to the Bulgarian Development Bank by Euros. Who's going to return it? In the last two years, I have repeatedly asked the question of Minister Pavlova and Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev: why, since the Law on Floor Property Management allows the General Assembly of Owners to conclude contracts for renovation, repair and so on, why do you force people to enter into a legal entity in the association of owners? Your ministers were stuffing, stuffing, stuffing, spinning, squinting, and finally they said, "Because the creditors want it that way." Once we have creditors, we have debtors. Go out and tell them, because I doubt Minister Pavlova will answer who will return the money. Where will they come from, from the treasury, pick them in the trees, with the rain of tomorrow? Get out there and tell me who's gonna pay back the loans!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. Second line? There aren't any. Mr. Nenkov, you have the floor for the doppelganger. You've been called for more substance. We've found out what it's about.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u73	Mrs. Tasheva, I don't understand what you mean by substance. I just listened very carefully to your speech and did not understand any specifics other than simple and cheap attacks. I'll try to answer your question. Of course, this money comes from the taxpayer, naturally it is money that is collected from the Bulgarian people through an excess that is in the budget, as one billion will come from the surplus, the other billion will come naturally again with loan funds that are guaranteed by the Bulgarian state. Of course they will be from the Bulgarian taxpayer. It's about time, I suppose, and you know, the state isn't some humorous cow that we're rolling and giving money to, that's the money we made. The question of a government, of a majority, is how I will distribute these goods and how I will distribute this financial resource. All I'm saying is that this program makes sense because that money is actually coming back. When we save, for example, from these blocks that are currently participating in the Programme and we save a million megawatt hours and multiply them by as much as the megawatt hour currently costs, we will find that these are between 150 and 200 million. If we put it in mind the one billion that has already been spent, this return will be somewhere for about 8 years. What else is not clear to you? Where will this money come from? Of course, this money, staying more in households, they will enter either through consumption or through banks in the form of loans, so that money is not lost, they do not disappear into space and the state is not some milk cow that is the taxpayer's money. Our task is to see how to distribute them, so that they are best spent and there is really a return. Just in the years back, I said the project "Belene" two and a half billion so far has gone absolutely to the wind. There is nothing built or anything. That's how they went. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u74	You had more time, but anyway, you developed your asshole. The next statement is Mr. Stoynov's, then Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, then Mr. Atalay. If you want us to give the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria to take turns, or do you want to? Here you go, Mr. Stoynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! On 12 January 2017, the Energy Commission examined the project for the continuation of the implementation of the National Programme for the Energy Efficiency of Multi-Family Buildings and the actions of the Council of Ministers to increase the financial resources to 2 billion. BGN 602-03-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 December 2016. This National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multi-Family Residential Buildings was adopted by Decree No 18 of the Council of Ministers of 2 February 2015. The Programme was developed and implemented in the implementation of the powers of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, regulated in the Energy Efficiency Act. The programme adopted is in line with the firm conviction existing in the European Union for the contribution of energy efficiency to the sustainable development of the community. Energy efficiency has therefore been identified as a lasting priority in the development of the European Union by 2020 and in the long-term horizon by 2050. Energy efficiency has been recognised for decades as a valuable tool to address the challenges facing the European Union as a result of its increased dependence on improving the security of energy supply and the need for action to limit climate change as a result of the use of energy. In implementing the requirements of the Programme over time, difficulties have arisen in its implementation, which in turn caused changes to be made in at least three successive decrees of the Council of Ministers as follows: Decree No 114 of the Council of Ministers of 8 May 2015, Decree No 282 of the Council of Ministers of 19 October 2015 and the last Decree of 23 April 2016. These three decrees of the Council of Ministers have eased and improved the amendment of the Programme in these two years and have created more favourable conditions for the population of the institutions working on it. I will not dwell in detail on the three amendments made with the decrees of the Council of Ministers, hoping that you are all familiar with them. I can say why, when examining the draft decision on the continuation of the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme of Multifamily Housing Buildings and the actions of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to increase the financial resource to 2 billion. lv. in writing. - I voted in favour of the Energy Committee and why and now in plenary I will vote in favour of the Energy Committee. I am a Member of Parliament from the Twenty-Sixth Multi-Multiple Election Region of Sofia District, and a resident of the Srednogorie region, including Zlatitsa, Pirdop and the other major and small municipalities. In this area, at the beginning of the action of this Programme, a part of the population with distrust referred to it. Nevertheless, another part of the people risked in the city. Zlatitsa she worked extremely successfully. The mayors in Srednogorya are representatives of BSP left Bulgaria%, but this was in no way an obstacle to them applying and the program to work successfully, as is the case with the town. Gold. Currently three blocks have been renovated in Zlatitsa and two have been officially opened by the district governor of Sofia region and the third block is near completion. The following construction and installation activities were carried out by the contractors: a complete replacement of roof waterproofing, installation of a lightning protection system, which many of the units currently do not have, a complete replacement of the living window, placing inox railings on the residential terraces, where nothing is being worked on the terraces themselves. Complete replacement of water and drainage pipes, outdoor thermal insulation with 10 cm insulation material and mineral plaster. We know that all the privates we do our apartment isolations are made with 5 cm insulation material, and here we work with 10 cm. And a lot of others I'm not gonna tell. The whole vision of these multi-family buildings has changed, which in turn contributed to increasing people's interest in the National Energy Efficiency Programme. In my meetings with the voters in the region, whose representative I am, questions are being asked................................................................................. the continuation of this Programme for both multi-family buildings and single-family buildings. I am convinced and call on the MPs from all parliamentary parties, leaving behind party biases, to vote and support the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to increase the financial resources to 2 billion. BGN, which will improve the conditions and lifestyles of the people, the vision of the settlements, the energy efficiency of their homes, as well as the successful development of the small and medium business in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u76	And thank you, dear Mr. Stoynov. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Next is the national representative Tasco Ermenkov, who wants a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u77	Let's extend the time, if we may.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u78	Please extend the time of both the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria and proportional to the other parliamentary groups. Here you are, dear Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are looking at the Project for a decision to support the continuation of the implementation of the National Programme energy efficiency of multifamily residential buildings. I'm saying there's no such program. We have nothing to support, because so far, the Energy Efficiency Programme, even more national, is gone! I'll try to prove to you why. Firstly, because in order for it to be a national programme, it must have really national coverage and not 3% of the housing fund, which with the two billion will become 6 billion. BGN, and is for multi-family buildings only. The second thing I want to tell you is that this is not energy efficiency. And I'll prove to you why. Because energy efficiency by definition must meet four conditions. You'll have to excuse me a little for the mentoring, lectoring tone, but I need to get you to know these facts so you can understand why it's not energy efficiency. The first requirement to recognise an energy efficiency action is to reduce energy consumption to a baseline. Here, let us say, with some approximate assumptions, we could talk that this Programme complies with this requirement. The second is preserving or increasing energy comfort in which people live after the measures taken. There's a lot of doubt here. Here, Mr. Veselinov even talked about the mold that appears from time to time in some of the buildings. But let's just say that this could partly be related to a bad performance, but in the conceptual part of the program it is relevant. Two more requirements are followed in order for the Programme to be energy efficiency and not investment exercise. The requirement is to pay the investment from energy savings to a baseline. I ask with these prices, which I will tell you shortly when this will be paid and will it ever be paid? The second thing, which is even more important, that the period of payment of this investment must be no longer than the duration of the measure. I'm setting it as an example. If the isolation you have put in place has a 10-year service life, then the investment for placing this insulation must not be longer than those 10 years. Colleagues, you understand that by making a small calculation on what has been spent, on what is saved, nor will the investment come back from savings, and for the payout period not to mention at all. So let us not talk about an Energy Efficiency Programme, which we now have to decide that we must continue. Such a program, one more time, I won't! I'll give you the calculations, which are why I'm also basing my conclusions on it. For example, it was said here during the meeting of the Energy Commission and a little contested by Mr. Dobrev will excuse me, not 150, but 135 megawatts because it is not 8 sq.m., but a little less on average hours. [[Reply of MP Delyan Dobrev.]] Yes, 135 megawatts, and the Deputy Minister and I have agreed that I am close to this number. So when energy efficiency calculations are made and whether investments are useful, they should generally be lower than investments to build new energy capacities. What do the numbers look like? One economyd kilowatt under the Programme. 135 million in 1 billion. BGN means EUR 3788 per kilowatt. Just to let you know that the investment value of your so-loved project is 3155 euros. It's a lot lower, isn't it? I'm asking what efficiency we're talking here? When and in what way will this effectiveness be repaid? We have nothing against the Bulgarians living in better conditions. The Bulgarian Socialist Party has always supported programs that are reasonable, which are built in the way a programme is built. And this is above all the setting of a strategic goal, after which setting intermediate stages, defining the events to be taken in successive times, and how much these events are worth, and whether the financial resources of the state are possible to meet them, and only then do we proceed to any action. Otherwise, any other spending of money becomes a waste of financial resources. Because I had the opportunity to see it being spent, because my block is one of those who was subjected to this measure, I want to tell you that it was quite an interesting view of people from a minority group [[Heckling]] You're right, Mr. Vesselinoff. That's how they did it for me. Four times we had to call them to fix things that weren't connected underneath, and only thanks to me. You know, if it wasn't for me, they wouldn't have done this thing, let's call it the abuse of authority and the knowledge of processes. [[Laughter and lines.]] I want to tell you... Yeah, I'm saying it responsibly. Because how many blocks didn't there have been people to help them? Because the control over the implementation of this program was zero. Because ask if somewhere in those blocks that were built went one of the city's construction supervision to see what was being done and what were the results? And I ask: who will finally give the final assessment of the quality of the work done? Is it planned in this Programme to do final energy efficiency audits to see what it was and what it got? For this reason, I say again: there was no energy efficiency programme to support its continuation! There was an investment program that spent some money on how effective, how not, the future would show. I personally professionally can say that they have not been spent effectively, but it does not matter. This was rather a program, a pardon, a programme, not a programme, but a programme or programme for the renovation of the building fund at 3% of it is neither national nor comprehensive nor social. Because it can't be a social program when people of a different material condition live in multifamily housing blocks, but everyone gets free, and ultimately the whole Bulgarian people repay this loan because that money comes back from the people and not from someone else and eventually the results will be what they usually get. The money, it is true, does not disappear, as one colleague said, they go into the pockets of certain companies. We will not be accomplices to this thing, and when we come to power this Programme will correct it both as control and as scope, and as implementation to really be an Energy Efficiency Programme, not a program for enriching close court companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u80	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. You won't declare conflict of interest? [[Noise and laughter in the hall.]] I understand because you were included in the program. - What's the line? Kostadin Markov of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc - First line, Mr. Kirilov 2nd. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u81	I was very worried about where Mr. Ermenkov lives now because the program is gone and his block is sanitized. I'm very worried there's a housing problem. Of course, tradition dictates that when BSP comes, many programs stop. Therefore, my advice to them is to vote for this Programme, because perhaps it will be the only thing that will go if they return to power. The other option is, of course, to build a nuclear power plant called Belene, instead of having plastic frames on the windows and heating ourselves with calories. I'm sure that's how they're gonna pay the bills, that it's gonna be more profitable economically. The program has its own problems.. there can be a lot of talk about them, there must be problems with control, although this is an investment process in which it is clearly regulated who is responsible for what. Yes, it goes into construction supervision, yes, there are clauses in the contracts of the companies - contractors, in which there are described warranty terms, there are guarantee amounts that will be withheld if there is something poor, so in this regard I would not develop criticism. Much can be desired in the direction of constructive audit of buildings, of the constructive effect of renovation of buildings, which I am not convinced will be achieved, but this is a good starting step. I support what my colleague before me said in a statement that it is better to move on to a option not 100% co-financing, but a self-participation of the owners, and this is a normal next phase in this type of programme. So my colleagues from the Reformation Block and I, I hope, will support the second stage of this Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u82	Thank you, Mr. Markov. People's representative Danail Kirilov, second line, Mr. Dobrev, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, Dear Mr. Ermenkov. I have so many objections to those of you who have tried to develop that I am really hesitant where to begin. First of all, you say four energy efficiency criteria. Who made these four criteria? Who's the source? What is the universal, let's say, the certified source of these four criteria? Is this the Agency for Energy Efficiency in some past period? Secondly, in terms of control. For me, this program is extremely unique because it contains all possible forms of control. All possible forms of control! However, the strongest form of control for me in this case is the control of the floor property. Yeah, then it's the mayor's control, then it's the governor's control. In the meantime, it is all the control that is on the LU with regard to the investment process. But the strongest control, here I say, is now the civilian control over the spending of these funds, belongs to the owners concerned. Because you can't buy them with anything but quality and good performance. By expressing a very deep doubt on all the numbers, Mr. Ermenkov, which you pointed out, I would ask you to recall Sofia Municipality in 2004. The municipality paid millions to private companies because they helped the municipality and municipal structures achieve energy efficiency! Well, that's what's different about the particular case! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u84	Thank you, too. Mr. Dobrev, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u85	Mr. Ermenkov, the Ministry of Regional Development has given us a very clear tab, with all the parameters of the Programme. You read the numbers a little bit like the gospel devil. There is no need to distort the numbers so much, you can only look at the expected energy savings from the renovated residential buildings Isn't that right? There's no dispute in this arithmetic........................ about 200 million. If this is a billion-dollar savings, 200 million is saved a year, it means that in five years the invested funds will return, so to speak. But not only will they return, they will generate additional economic growth and activity in the country. And with regard to your comparison of what installed power we can build with the same money, my colleague before me gave a very nice example of us putting nylons on the windows and warming ourselves with calories and accumulating stoves just because we have to build new installed capacities, but I would like to give you a purely professional note that this account of yours is incorrect because even if 135 megawatts are, by the way, my calculation is for 144 megawatts, if I'm not mistaken, was at 7800 hours, not more than 8000 hours, at 7800 hours at about 140 and several megawatts. Anyway, we'll take 135. But this is 135, if we're talking about base power that works 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. You know that this is saved energy during the three months in winter. If we multiply these 135 megawatts by four to replace the saved energy with new installed power, it means we have to build 500 megawatts. Isn't that right?! Am I right? Because the savings are within three months. The consumption is not in the 12 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u86	Thank you. A hole, dear Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u87	Mr. Markov, I didn't say the block wasn't isolated, I was talking about quality. It's funny you should say that. It doesn't suit you. My question to you is that people who think that public resources should be spent more carefully: how many blocks and how many square meters in Burgas were made at BGN 360. The square meter? Ask the mayor, he'll answer you! To Mr. Kirilov, to say that there are textbooks that say what energy efficiency is. After the meeting I will give them to you to read if you have such a desire. There are European directives and documents where this is written. By what you said, the only thing I can replicate you is: "Oh, santa simlicitas! Mr. Dobrev, you're right in some of the numbers you say, but it's equilibric. The savings calculations shall be made per square meter, not per season, and shall be made by reference line. [[Reply by MP Delyan Dobrev.]] Wait a minute, wait a minute. What would be a base line if everything was done as it should be, but these are not real values, you know very well! However, for all who are interested, since the end of February, I lead a Master's Degree in Energy Efficiency at Sofia University.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u88	I can tell, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u89	Come on, I'd love to teach you a few things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u90	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I can tell you're taking a course. That's where you come in from.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u91	But it's not a free course!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u92	Here's a statement from Mr. Ramadan Atalay. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! I just want to remind you that two years ago, I finished my speech again from this tribune, saying that the road to hell was paved with good intentions. Here we are discussing today the Programme, whether it is national, it is an interesting Programme, which is worth the support. Before we start explaining to society and some of our colleagues, we need to ask: why shouldn't a person, when elections come, fall into populism, and why, when you are in power, certain programs that you have accepted have not happened, what is the reason? Why don't you actually have partners? Why do your partners today not support you and want to change those funds that are allocated to a national programme for other social purposes? Why did it come to this that GERB all the way through e-mails went looking for partners? Because you were unable to dispel the doubts in society that there are certain corrupt activities in the Programme, which is so good for the country. Whether it is or not, you are obliged and you must disprove them, but the doubts in politics are reality. The first doubt that all colleagues here today voice is that you tried to use the political agenda during the presidential election campaign. Now I remember that sometimes when certain fellow Members are asked for the immunities of votes, I ask myself, is this not also an influence by power? There is no Mr. Tsvetanov, I do not want to talk about selling phones to certain village mayors in the municipality of Kainardzha to extend the terms of the contracts in order for a certain part of the voters to be able to vote for you. When you tried to use this Programme for your political purposes, you could not understand that Mr. Tasco Ermenkov lives in such a block and there is no way to convince him to vote for GERB! Next thing: there is a doubt about the real costs. You are the people who need to go out and say that the Development Bank, its supervision, everything that is being carried out as energy efficiency activities is being implemented because the funds allocated are from the taxpayer's resources. You have to do this thing and you have to succeed! If you do not succeed, there will be colleagues who will come out here and say: "Better that these funds go for the money." Colleagues, really, pensions are very low. If the pension system policy was not wrong and was not changed after 2009, the minimum pension would now be BGN 267. You must admit your wrong pension system policy so that you can once and for all disprove and say that these are one-off funds and are for this Programme. Once again, the program is good and positive. Let's not tarnish her again. The control of the implementation of the activities, and especially of the companies that do the energy efficiency audits and subsequently what they need to prove by certificate, that all the conditions required under the Programme are met must be explained first to the MPs, because I see that a large part of the colleagues have doubts about this, including me, Madam Minister, because there is discrimination that happened during the two-year period. The public reacted that certain funds could not be allocated only for large housing blocks, although you corrected yourself from 36 apartments for multifamily housing you went down to six apartments, but the resentment of the single family dwellings remained. Perhaps in this Programme, we have talked with Mr. Dobrev for a long time about what the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has proposed during the Commission Otherwise, doubts that certain tax funds go only to large settlements where voters are only for a certain political power will remain. Dear colleagues, we have decided to visit several sanitized blocs in the Commission. The problem of "Topplofication Sofia" if it is not solved together with the renovation process, if the vertical cords of heat supply or energy supply in each dwelling are not taken out in the common areas and the commercial appliances are not placed at the entrance of the apartment, the doubt that energy efficiency has not fulfilled its task will remain and will be a reality. Dear colleagues, the energy efficiency activities are described in these programmes, but these activities, whether they are implemented or not, we, as the National Assembly, or the next ones to come to power, must control them. You know why you don't have partners? [[GERB lines.]] You know why you don't have partners? I hope you remember. A few words about the program. It cannot be excluded that, once the designated renovation activities of the housing block have been carried out, it cannot have no effect. It's out of the question. On a simple account, which we made, these 6666 BGN on average, which are separated for each apartment in Sofia, let's make sure that they are also given to each house in the designated place where people can perform their energy efficiency. If, my fellow Members, we had implemented the 2008 Energy Strategy and we had made it possible to phase out those old power plants and had made it possible to build new energy-efficient capacities, and if we had carried out the activities... Because the 2008 Movement for Rights and Freedoms each year proposed that each Prime Minister's portfolio be separated within 50 to 70 million in order to carry out energy audits and at the same time start energy efficiency. In 2008, Germany had completed its energy efficiency by 20 billion in all multifamily homes. There was nothing else left for us to do that was beneficial to society. We will support the Programme without giving up the responsibility for both the implementation of the Programme and the costs that are being made, and for our proposal, which we insist on from these funds being initially able to separate 200 million. lv. for single-family housing to eliminate discrimination against society. And, honourable Members, to be reasonable and not to interrupt a good activity just because the next election is coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? I won't. Please come in for a statement. The People's Representative Manol Genov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u95	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister! I've heard a lot about the program here. Mr. Kirilov said she was unique. It's really unique. Such a miracle is neither in Europe nor in the world. And the way it's done and done... [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] It's unique, it's unique. [[GERB lines.]] Apparently, some North Korea experience has been borrowed. China can't think of such a thing. The food environment for corruption is unique, colleagues, which is created with this Programme. A company has been assigned to run an object. Why didn't you recommend this for the jersey, and now go racketeering the performers and sign them here and there for a corresponding reward to do his job and fulfill his duties? The food environment for corruption is unique and Mr. Metodi Andreev even agreed with me. The documents go to the Bank, they sink, and only some employee knows when they will pay and to whom and how much. I will ask the honourable Mrs. Pavlova to say, if there is information, which of the pending companies, municipalities who have given payment documents in the bank has been paid after 1 January 2017. It's chaos with the transparency of the program. From this tribune, I have raised the question of the finance minister that the register, which is led by the bank, is exceptional as a misleading fact for society. It doesn't make sense from there. There are applications that the people who made the contract paid some money. But when this job is done, when the invoice is given, how long is waiting to be paid this invoice, it is not clear! And hence the doubts that Mr. Atalay shared from this tribune just now. The one with vertical heat exchangers, I would add to the water companies, is another matter. From this tribune, I've spoken it. Mrs. Pavlova said they'd keep it in mind, but I didn't see it, and I didn't hear it happen anywhere. And another interesting question has a contract signed by BGN 360. Contracts are then executed at an indicative value of BGN 260. What's the difference? Did some guys come by one day to ask where that money went, to show interest? These are our questions and our doubts, colleagues. We have nothing against the philosophy of the Program. I'll tell Mr. Dobrev, because he told me about some foil, I'll remind him of a case when he was a consultant on a project you sanitized the fence of a school, Mr. Dobrev. You sanitized the fence to make it energy efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u96	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. [[(Comments from GERB: Personal explanation!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u98	Dear Mr. Genov, what sanitized fence are you talking about?! I wasn't a consultant on any sanitized fence. If you wish, continue your sentence so that I may judge you and receive justice for this slander you have uttered from the stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u99	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Debates closed. The Executive Director of the Bulgarian Development Bank Mr. Gekov has raised many questions, you can answer. Then Minister Pavlova resigned and then we vote. You have the floor, Mr. Gekoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Bulgarian Development Bank performs a purely agentic function in relation to the National Energy Efficiency Programme. It is related to the payment of the activities of concluded energy audit anexes and to the carrying out of the construction and installation works. Note that the problems posed by us are mainly related to the quality of the formed documentation when presenting the relevant requests from the municipalities. The main engine of the Programme is the municipalities several who have the relevant problems with their administrative capacity, respectively in many cases delays are related to failure to comply with the requirements of the Programme. The development bank has absolutely no benefit in delaying any payment. As soon as the request is deposited in accordance with the requirements of the Programme, payment shall be made within two or three days. Unfortunately, many times the documents have not been completed according to the requests, which means returning, making the appropriate adjustments, re-sending. As you well understand, this technologically extends the time limit. Not to mention that very often there are differences in the payment request and the invoice attached to the documentation. I'm giving you a perfectly normal case. On the invoice issued, which is for example 100 BGN, the payment request is for 95 BGN. Keep in mind that we do not have any butchering in respect of the entire technology of the process of carrying out energy efficiency. We are solely responsible for the financial part of the operation. The funding is provided through own funds and through the two currently concluded credit lines by the Development Bank to the Council of Europe and KfW, which we believe currently cover the financial needs of the Programme. We are prepared to increase funding to the full amount of 1 billion if necessary. This I could briefly share on your questions. If you have any further questions, I'm ready to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Gekoff. Minister Pavlova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would like to thank everyone for the constructive debate, for the constructive criticism. Certainly, we are most likely not infallible. We ourselves appreciate that we have the opportunity, we have the desire, we have somewhere to improve the Programme, conditions, control and all the efforts we have put into it for two years. Nevertheless, I think we have achieved a great deal in these two years. The change in the face of these cities, which managed to make a larger scale of buildings, is visible and undisputed. I am ready in every quality that I am now resigning and then, together, to find the best way, the best mechanisms in which to improve the Programme. I will, of course, try to respond to almost everyone, to most of the main comments, questions or criticisms. I certainly wouldn't be 100% thorough, but I suggest the debate continue. I'll start with Mrs. Tasheva in the order of the speeches. Mrs. Tasheva was first in terms of savings. Yes, Mrs. Tasheva, we have data because these are cumulative calculations of savings. This is called heating and lighting savings. Of course, they are in different values by all the individual indicators of the energy audit, of the energy audit of the building. Each individual indicator calculates a specific percentage of savings, which in total saving of one dwelling, of one household, of an apartment varies between 40 and 80%. In our buildings we report about 50-60% savings. Undoubtedly, in addition to the savings for heating costs, we also have savings between 40 and 60% of the reduced electricity consumption resulting from the installation of energy saving lighting, as well as the change of the installations we are talking about. With regard to the disagreeable, it is not a coincidence, although the Law on Floor Property allows any floor property, whether it is for the Sanitation Program, for its own purposes or for its own private renovation, or other issues, the Law on Floor Property allows 67% of the owners, if they agree, renovation and renovation measures of a building to happen. [[Noise and lines.]] You know that we, within the framework of the Programme, have increased this percentage and it is a 95% consent precisely to ensure that when we invest public resources, but in inviolable private property, we have the full maximum possible consent of a maximum number living in the building. If some of these 5% of those living in one building disagree, do not damage the other 95%, these apartments do not enter or perform repairs. So private property remains inviolable. There is a report, there is a report in the report and according to the implementation of the Programme there is an annual report to the National Assembly. The reporting is clear, transparent and available. Regarding Mr. Veselinov's comment. Mr. Veselinov, I would appeal to something very important. We must not oppose pensions, sanitization and highways. We need to make sure that for each of these policies and programmes we have enough resources, there is enough revenue in the country, there is a well-functioning economy, so that they can happen. Through the renovation, it is more employment, more social security, more money in the NSI, more opportunities to increase pensions by much more, with as much as we want to increase them annually. Mr. Turnovallisky for budget issues. I don't see Mr. Turnovalysky in the room, but I'll answer his comment. There is a difference when we have an act of the Council of Ministers, and it is a decree when it is a decision of the Council of Ministers. When we talk about a decision of the Council of Ministers to propose a proposal to the National Assembly, it always goes with a simple financial justification, because it is not a decision for financing, and it does not require, and until it is adopted by the National Assembly, there is no direct or indirect influence on the state budget. If you vote positively today, which I appeal for and thank you for, then there will be, and then the budget will have to decide to increase the resource and it will be included. It is precisely because we do not violate the Public Finance Act that I am here today on behalf of the government to present, protect and receive the support of the National Assembly in the coming years forward this Programme to continue and to realise its benefits. Mr. Ermenkov, the program is gone, and it doesn't exist, and you were the first to sanitize yourself. Not only did you sanitize yourself, accept the costs and sign that you accept the activities that have been carried out. There is Act 16 issued and put into service. [[Applause from GERB.]] She's gone, but you took advantage of her first! It shows a lot, but I think everyone can draw their conclusions without commenting on it. Dear Mrs. Yankova, you know, we have worked with you before with European funding, with the UNDP Programme. Smolyan is one of the communities where they first sanitized. We see the effects, we see the enormous benefits of the program. I am truly sorry, very sad and very sad that it is BSP that will not support this socio-economic programme. The effects are visible both in small settlements and in large ones. But that's your decision. Regarding the comments on prices and the number of buildings. I can say: let us not forget that the statistics that you quoted about the number of buildings, the number of panel buildings or the number of buildings built by industrial means include separate block sections. In our program, speaking of a building, we are talking about combinations of all block sections from which it is formed. I know that panel buildings, in most cases in large panel buildings, which are the main focus and priority so far under the Programme, include three-four-five block-sections. So the real number of buildings on statistics that you're quoting is much more. That is why we are talking about over 160 thousand homes that are in the scope and volume of the Programme. There were other comments. I will try in the general comments to conclude to say: our will, our desire from the first day of the creation of this Programme to this day, and from now on, is to continue this Programme. It is not at stake to be realized in just two years and with only one billion, on the contrary. This Programme must continue and it is initially laid down first, to be long-term, at least 10 years. The start-up investment is worth a billion. I hope that after today it will be two billion, the building fund that enters the Programme will be extended. We have already reduced it as an opportunity for smaller buildings, and subsequently to add brick buildings and lower construction, and, of course, in the long term to enter single-family residential buildings, but we had to, prioritize and start with large panel buildings, because in them lives the largest number of population and covers on the largest scale precisely the fact, because it is national, on the territory of all areas, on the territory of all municipalities where there is such a type of building. With regard to its own contribution, even when we started the Programme, it is written in the Programme itself that yes, after the first years of its realization, in order to move forward successfully, there must also be an own contribution of those living in these buildings in the coming years, so this is also at stake now. There is this, so here to respond to Mr. Markov: thank you for your support. Yeah, there's got to be a contribution of his own. Subsequently, the Programme not only to expand, but also to make its own contribution to the participants. And to the Patriot Front: where there are socially weak and people pensioners, yes, for them it must continue to be social with 100% funding and co-financing by these families and households who can support it accordingly. This is a model that needs and can be developed in order for the program to be realized. With regard to the Bulgarian Bank for Development and the Financing of the Programme and why we do not see it in the budget, the Programme is built on the principle that it is longstanding, goes far beyond the scope of a three-year budgeting, because it has bet the Bulgarian Development Bank to play as a financial agent, as a financing body at its own expense and at the expense of loan agreements in the years ahead, and then, when there are budget opportunities, which thanks to the realised revenues, savings and smuggling actions we had in December last year and we secured it financially with the first billion, the state to pay gradually forward in the years without burdening the budget. When the budget and a good fiscal position are possible, then it will pay these costs and this will happen forward in the years. Thus, the Bulgarian Development Bank is the one that finances the fund on the basis of own resources and on the basis of two credit agreements ratified by you, ladies and gentlemen, two credit agreements worth 250 million. euros approved, supported by the National Assembly and ratified by law. They allow the bank to secure payments in the future and, hopefully, for the next budget to be adopted, to be increased and indeed to be another step forward, not the last billion, but to be the next billion, which together we can establish and together make the rules better, better quality, because Bulgarian citizens deserve it. I'm sure of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u103	Thank you, my dear Minister, for resigning. [[Applause from GERB.]] I'll introduce you to the Project Decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? to support the continuation of the implementation of the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multi-Family Housing and the actions of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to increase the financial resources to 2 billion. lv. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Supports the continuation of the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multi-family residential buildings and the actions of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to increase the financial resources to 2 billion. lv. Please vote. They voted 152 MPs: 109, against 11, abstention 32. The decision to support has been adopted. [[Applause from GERB.]] It's 11:45. We'll stop for 30 minutes. We continue with the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses. I'm asking for a presence in the hall so we don't start with a name check. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u104	We are continuing our work, honourable Members, with a next item on our agenda. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. This is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR EXCIES AND DANISH CARDS. A general bill of laws adopted at the first vote on 27 July 2016 amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 554-01-184, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 3 December 2015; No 654-01-10, submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs on 3 February 2016; and No 654-01-57, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 20 April 2016. Dear Mrs. Yordanova, you have the floor to introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Report on the General Draft Law of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses adopted at the first vote on 27 July 2016; No 654-01-10, submitted by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs on 3 February 2016; and No 654-01-57, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 20 April 2016, drawn up on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on excise and tax warehouses. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs: In version 1 of § 1, the following amendments and additions are made: 1.1 for t. 1: (a) A new item shall be created. 8 with the following text: It's 8 o'clock. "Specialised small object to be absorbed' is an object where more than 10 specifics of pure alcohol per year can be produced for personal consumption of natural persons only, producers of grapes and fruit, and for quantities up to 30 litres of ethanol per family per year the excise duty rate shall be applied according to art. 31, para. 1, t. 6.2-See Annex II to this Regulation. b) the current t. 8 becomes t. 8a with the following additions and amendments: - the expression "specialized small object for distillation' is replaced by "specialized small object for distillation of a small producer'; - a comma shall be placed in a sub-point (a) after the request for a translation object (s) and a work shall be added on the basis of a licence issued to a natural or legal person registered as a farmer of grapes and/or fruits and shall not be able to carry out its activities under the licence granted; - the existing text of point (b) is deleted and replaced by the following new text: (b) is not a tax warehouse, but has means of measuring and checking that account is taken simultaneously of a volume in litres equivalent to a temperature of 20°C and an alcoholic strength calculated at a temperature of 20°C. - in the text of the proposed new sub-paragraph (Variant 1) at the end of the sentence, after the word (c) a new item shall be created. 8b with the following text: 8b. A small producer of ethyl alcohol is a natural or legal person who: (a) produce ethyl alcohol (grape, wine, fruit or pear brandy) only from grapes, fruit or wine distillation-own production without addition of sucrose or other sweeteners, except in the years where official authorisation by the Vine and Wine Agency is granted, up to 4,5 volume per cent; (b) may offer works of ethyl alcohol (rakia) for consumption only to end-users, restaurants or drinking establishments against a issued document of origin after paying all due excise duty under art. 31, para. 1, t. 6, without applying the rules on tax warehouses; (c) lodge declarations and keep diaries under the provisions of Section IV and V of the Wine and Spirit Drinks Act; (d) does not produce ethyl alcohol for the personal consumption of natural persons 1.2. for t. 2: ............................................... Art. 38a 4 of the Law, in the expression "Legally and economically independent specialized small object for translation" after the word "distillation" is added a small producer, the words "art." 57, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 58th, para. 2, p. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure until 4 November 2016: In § 1, option 1, point Point 1 (b) (i) (i) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option 2 of § 1. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for version 1 of § 1 and shall propose the following version: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 t. 8 point (b) is replaced by the number (s)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u106	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Andreev. After him, Mr. Stefan Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to say from the outset that, during the Commission, I withdrew all my proposals from this point forward not because they were not correct, not because they were not in line with Directive No 9283, but because I felt that the political situation at the moment is such that it cannot allow it to accept those proposals which the European Union is giving us as an opportunity. I would like to say in advance that what we are doing now is thanks to the political will of Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Valeri Simeonov and many MPs, including the people of the so-called pressure group. But what are we really doing? To explain to those people who have not been interested in this matter until now and why I have chosen this particular matter to explain it from the stands of the National Assembly. Because when we talk about corporations, about monopolies, it's very difficult to explain what this thing is, unless we're talking about fuels. Rakia is something from the everyday life of the Bulgarians. With this bill, we can practically show how, in the presence of a legal framework that allows us the European Union, we give it up and we do not want to apply it in Bulgaria only because a state monopoly, as was the spirit monopoly, has gone into private hands. Then he began to govern the state, in fact, he began to influence the political decisions of the Bulgarian legislative body, as is the National Assembly. There's no other explanation. Customs said: "Yes, Mr. Andreev, we know that what you have proposed is entirely in line with the European directive, but whether it will be implemented depends on the National Assembly. And in order not to disturb the people, the small producers, who were unjustly crushed by customs for a year and suffered too much financial loss, I decided to withdraw the proposal, as Valeri Simeonov did, so that we would not create any further commotion. But we cannot help but admit that what Europe allows us, we do not want it. Therefore, today, when we are going to vote on these texts, let us God restore what was before these amendments. This is actually Todor Zhivkov's time. That's what we're doing right now. Even in Todor Zhivkov's time, this was much more liberal because at that time the points that carried out this service had no limit. Now we're putting a limit of 1,000 liters. Let one of the great experts on this Law show me in Directive No 9283 which regulates this matter, where there is a limit, where there is a limited volume for the small objects in question! There's no volume! There's no limit! Even the Ministry of Finance was wondering how to justify its proposal. They have even sent a letter to the European Commission asking for an explanation of these 1000 liters of pure alcohol can they be attached to the potions for brewing brandy. These 1000 litres of pure alcohol, which appear in the directive in question, distinguish which are small and which are medium and large producers. They relate only to excise duty. The European directive says that when you are a small producer, you have the right to produce up to 1000 litres. What does a small producer mean? This means that a person who has received his land, has a vineyard, has a plum garden, has a apricot garden, under the European directive can license a cauldron, announce it to the tax authorities, put on measuring instruments, go all the way to registration, which is not small, there is no large This is given by the European Union as a right at once, without a tax warehouse. Why did the European Union do it this way? So that small producers can exist. But since stability in Bulgaria is like the dead excitement, first of all the small vessels are drowned......... and small businesses. That's what we're doing! We are actually returning a situation that gives us the right to develop these people, corresponding to our role and to our membership in the European Union. I therefore wish the parties who claim to be centre-right in the next parliament to take my proposals, which I have made in this Law, to recognize them and if they have the courage to show that the time of corporate political management is over, that the time has ended when the monopolies determine what the Assembly will decide. So now, in order not to interfere with the National Assembly, this statement was to bring the MPs together, I withdraw the proposal, which was read by the National Assembly's stand. I say again, not because it's not right, but because it's not the time. God bless him!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u108	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. - What's the line? I won't. Please come in for a statement, Mr. Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Although I am aware that this text will pass and the House will generally support it, I think that many important things should be said in the debate. First of all, the speakers at first and second reading mix the concepts. The Kazanders, the cauldrons and the brewing of the brandy is a favor. The production of brandy by people who have cauldrons and buy grapes is already production. In my opinion, there is no difference between them and other proceedings that must go through registration regimes. The bad news is that all the time we've been talking about homemade brandy, and eventually, factories will benefit from the production of illegal alcohol. My colleague Emil Dimitrov and I had made an alternative proposal before giving each household the opportunity to grow its own homemade brandy, but in Bulgaria tens and hundreds of types of distillation facilities are sold. This could have happened, but it wasn't accepted at first reading. Boiling the material of the respective citizen and making homemade brandy is one thing, but for me, the other process that we observe is more dangerous, especially in the maritime areas of Burgas and Varna.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u110	And Carnobat!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. In Karnobat we have the most alcohol captured to prepare ethyl alcohol, which summer is sold as local vodka and local whiskey. It's ethyl alcohol with glucose or ethyl alcohol with caramel. We remember the 12 deaths in Yakoruda. It would be a pity if, due to a reduction in control and non-measurement of what we are doing, we leave large distillation facilities without any control, neither in terms of quantity nor in terms of quality. Since the end of the National Assembly is nearing and no longer legislative initiatives can be taken, perhaps the next National Assembly should consider medical supervision regarding the fitness of the produced alcohols in all distillation installations in the country's territory. I will not support the proposal, because both 500 and 1000 liters appear to be something immense.. Why should it be 1000, but not 1200 or 800 liters?! I call on all the parliamentary groups to think about this. One is homemade brandy and its brewing. We are obliged in respect of factories that pour out tens of thousands of litres of illegal alcohol, on which neither excise nor VAT is paid, but is mainly carried out in establishments during the summer season at sea, namely through customs and other law enforcement authorities to be checked, monitored. What comes out like a ton of alcohol is not homemade brandy. It's fake brandy, fake vodka, fake whiskey. This should be our goal.. fighting this illegal alcohol with a vague suitability for use by a human being. With regard to it, all the strictness of the Law and of the State must be brought down. Thank you for your attention. I think you'd vote wisely.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Kenov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! At this hour, we have a chance to put an end to an unfair decision that the National Assembly adopted a year and a month ago. Immediately after the adoption of the decision, which limited the possibility of producing spirit drinks in the so-called village cauldrons, mainly brandy, with a volume of over 500 liters, placing them in tax warehouses on the one hand, on the other hand, with the limitation of the possibility of working for half a year, unfortunately, the National Assembly has given a very heavy blow to this industry. This industry is the services, these are small producers, people around whom they feed several families, so it's about a few thousand people. Either way, we're trying to set a point and return the old terms to the old Law. From this point of view, Mr. Kenov, I can't understand why you won't support him. Of course, it's a step in the right direction. We consider, life and health, in the next National Assembly, even more to ease and free the entire sector from the restrictive conditions, but this is a matter of the future. You are probably all aware that there are no such restrictions in Greece or in the Czech Republic or in Italy or anywhere. We've gone to all the trouble of looking into it. Indeed, what Mr. Andreev said is that the European directive does not limit the category of service performers such as these said. I repeat that we have made this mistake and I sincerely hope that this year everyone has been able to get acquainted with the proposal that we have already made on 3 December 2015. We have discussed in detail and we have all quite thoroughly discussed in all the parliamentary groups, both in the Commission and in free discussions the possibility of introducing, returning a fairer rule of law. Today we have a text around which, thank God, we are united all parliamentary parties. I would like to thank for the full understanding of colleagues from GERB, BSP, colleagues from the Reformation bloc and all other Bulgarian parties. I use to thank them for voting and for adopting the Law at first reading. Thank you, colleagues. In this way, we have proved that we can also do good things together. To recall that the only ones who abstained and did not vote on the adoption of these texts at first reading were from the DPS Parliamentary Group. I call them, I turn to them, although I do not see them in the Chamber, let them show whether they are a Bulgarian party and whether they would stand up for the interests of small Bulgarian traders. Once again, I appeal for the support of this Law. Naturally, as importers, the Patriotic Front will support it. Once again, thank you for your cooperation with the other parliamentary groups. I wish, in this same order, that we are able to remedy other shortcomings in our legislation in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Go ahead, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u115	Although the issue I am about to raise has been discussed in the Commission, I must also put it before the National Assembly. What the Commission has approved as a text is replaced by I am merely clarifying for those who were not present at the Commission meeting. Working volume because if a vessel is 1000 litres of volume, it cannot be filled to the top with material. There must be free space because this free space creates the pressure in question. It's like a pressure cooker I set a very good example there. On every pressure cooker, it says "working volume." It is very important to record the volume of work, because people in the industry are worried that the customs will start measuring them including the volume of the columns and thus what we do will actually be partial, palatial. It will not be in the spirit of the ideas that we are currently putting into this change. So I suggest that you write a thousand liters of working volume. This is my editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u116	Here you are, Mr. Genov. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u117	Mr. President, honourable Members, I will fully support Mr. Andreev in this proposal because he who has not gone to the cauldron does not know what a working volume is. It is absolutely right that if the volume is calculated and the column of the column has air, there passes only the fumes from the material that is complex. It is normal and logical to write this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Indeed, the issue was discussed in the Budget Committee, and the only problem is that everywhere in the Law is used the term "volume." That is to say, the introduction of the work volume is only here, which will create chaos in the implementation of the entire Law. Without the knowledge of Mr. Genov and Mr. Andreev, this was the consideration outlined in the Budget Committee. We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Metodi Andreev. They voted 109 MPs: 55 against 2, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote option 2 of an importer which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 15 against 4, abstention 92. Option 2 by importer has not been accepted. I put to the vote the name of the Law and option 1 of § 1 on the Commission report, the proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev, which is not supported, has been withdrawn. We vote on the name of the Law and § 1 on the Commission report. They voted 111 MPs: 110 against 1, no abstentions. The name of the Law and § 1 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u119	The proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes that § 2 be rejected. The proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes that § 3 be rejected. The proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes that § 4 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u120	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject paragraphs 2, 3 and 4. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against 1, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to reject paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u121	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the substation in the version until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2 with the following wording: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: ..21. a document proving that the distillation facilities for the production of ethyl alcohol, spirits and spirit drinks were purchased by a person registered under the Wine and Spirit Drinks Act
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u122	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 with the wording of the Commission report. We are voting § 2 on the Commission report. They voted 116 MPs: 115 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted. According to § 5, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes that § 5 be rejected. According to § 6 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes that § 6 be rejected. According to § 7 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes that § 7 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u123	I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals to reject paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 by importer. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 by importer are unanimously rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u124	There is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal of the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3 with the following wording: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Nine. a document proving that the distillation facilities for the production of ethyl alcohol (rakiya) were purchased by a person registered under the Wine and Spirit Drinks Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u125	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. They voted 119 MPs: 118 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u126	According to § 8 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group which was withdrawn to the Commission. There is a proposal from the MP Georgi Turnovaliyski: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 8: 1. In para. 1 after the word 2. In para. 5, Izr. 2nd is out.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u127	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u128	You're withdrawing him.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u129	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. To clarify to the Chamber Mr. Turnovalyski withdraws the proposal as it relates to the already dropped texts concerning the transfer of control to the municipalities. There is a proposal from the MP Metodi Andreev and a group that has been withdrawn. The Commission proposes that § 8 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u130	We are voting for the motion to reject § 8. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 8 by importer is unanimously rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u131	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u132	We vote on the text of the importer for § 9 supported by the Commission, becoming § 4 in its report. They voted 111 MPs: 110 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraph 4 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u133	According to § 10, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes that § 10 be rejected. According to § 11, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes that § 11 be rejected. According to § 12, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal by Metodi Andreev and a group which has been withdrawn from the Commission. The Commission proposes that § 12 be rejected. According to § 13 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes that § 13 be rejected. Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes that § 14 be rejected. According to § 15 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes that § 15 be rejected. According to § 16 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MPs Metodi Andreev and a group which has been withdrawn from the Commission. The Commission proposes that § 16 be rejected. According to § 17 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes that § 17 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u134	We are voting on the Commission's proposals to reject paragraphs 10 to 17 including by importer. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. Paragraphs 10 to 17 including on a proposal from the Commission have been unanimously rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u135	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under § 18, there is a proposal of the MPs Valeri Simeonov and a group which has been withdrawn. There is a proposal from the MP Georgi Turnovalyski, which has been withdrawn. There is a proposal by the MP Metodi Andreev and a group has also been withdrawn. There is a proposal of the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes that § 18 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u136	We are voting on the name of the division of the "Transitional and final provisions" as well as on the Commission's proposal to reject § 18 by importer. Vote 112 MPs: for 111, against none, abstention 1. The name of the division "Transitional and final provisions', as well as the Commission's proposal to reject § 18 by importer, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u137	There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 5 with the following wording: .................................................................................. (1) The requirement under art. 48, para. 2, p. 21 shall not apply to the persons referred to in Article 21. 47, para. 1 who submit a request for a licence under art. 48, para. 1 within 3 months of the entry into force of this law. (2) The requirement under art. 57, para. 3, p. 9 shall not apply to the persons referred to in Article 9. 56, para. 1, t. 1 who submit a request for registration under art. 57, para. 2 within 3 months of the entry into force of this law. There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 6 with the following wording: ........................................................... The requirements of art. 48, para. 2, p. Art. 21 or art. 57, para. 3, p. 9 shall not apply to persons who, at the date of entry into force of this Act, have been granted a licence to manage a tax warehouse under art. 50, para. 1 or certificate of registration under art. 57, para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u138	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals to create new paragraphs 5 and 6 with their respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. Paragraphs 5 and 6 are unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u139	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, which has been withdrawn. Paragraph 19. Proposal by the MP Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, which is issued under the letter...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Proposal of the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 7 with the following wording: .................................................... In the Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks (Obn., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Section IIIa with Article 9a shall be established in Chapter 9. 142a - 142c: "Department IIIa" Register of persons carrying out activities with distillation facilities for the production of ethyl alcohol, spirits and spirit drinks Art. 142a. (1) A register of persons making imports, introduction into the territory of the country, production, sale, supply or supply of distillation facilities for the production of ethyl alcohol, spirits and spirits shall be established. (2) The register under para. 1 is public and is led by the Ministry of Economy. (3) The order and manner of keeping the register under para. 1 shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Economy. (4) The persons entered in the register under para. 1 may sell or provide distillation facilities for the production of ethyl alcohol, spirits and spirits to persons registered under the Commercial Law, the Co-operative Act or under the legislation of a Member State of the European Union, or to another State a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, as well as legal persons established on the basis of a regulatory act. (5) The persons who are entered in the register under art. 132, para. 2, may trade in distillation facilities for the production of ethyl alcohol, spirits and spirit drinks, informing the Ministry of Economy thereof. (6) The order for notification under para. 5 shall be determined by the ordinance under para. 3. Art. 142b. (1) The persons shall submit an application to the Ministry of Economy for entry in the register before they start carrying out the activities under art. 142a, para. 1. (2) Within 14 days of the submission of the application under para. 1 The Minister of Economy or an official authorised by him shall issue a certificate of registration of the persons and their entry in the register under art. 142a, para. 1. Art. 142c. (1) The persons referred to in art. 142a, para. 1: 1. keep records allowing the establishment of the person who has received the distillation facility for the production of ethyl alcohol, spirits and spirits; 2. by the 14th of the month following the month in which they were ordered by the distillery, provide information to the Ministry of Economy for persons who have received the distillation facility, including at least the following identification data, a full name, a single identification code of the Commercial Register or a BULSTAT code. (2) On request or on its own initiative, the Ministry of Economy shall provide the Office with the information under para. 1, t. 2 as well as information on the identified cases of activities with distillation facilities carried out by persons not listed in the register under art. 142a. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2 and 3: A person who does not fulfil an obligation to register in the register under art. 142a, a fine or penalty of 500 to 5 000 BGN is imposed. (3) A person who fails to fulfil an obligation under art. 142c, a fine or a penalty of 200 to BGN 1000
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u140	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 7 in the Commission's report, after its amendment. Vote 112 MPs: 110 against 1 abstention 1. Paragraph 7 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u141	Paragraph 20. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 8 with the following wording: ................................................................................... The persons who until the entry into force of this Law carried out the activities under art. 142a, para. 1 of the Wine and Spirit Drinks Act shall be registered within three months of the entry into force of this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u142	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 8 on the Commission report. They voted 105 MPs: for 103, there are no abstentions 2. Paragraph 8 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u143	Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev, which has been withdrawn. Paragraph 21. Proposal of the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become 9 with the following wording: ..................................................... The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u144	We are voting § 9 on the Commission report. They voted 111 MPs: for 110, there is no abstention 1. Paragraph 9 of the Commission's report has been adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo, bravo!" by GERB.]] ............................................... We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE ROAD MOVE LAW - sequel. Importer is the Council of Ministers, on 31 March 2016, adopted at first vote on 12 May 2016. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u145	First, I want a procedure for admission in the Chamber of Deputy Minister Valeri Borisov from the Ministry of Transport, Deputy Minister Philip Gounev from the Ministry of Interior, Boyko Ranovski, Head of the Department of Road Police and Krasimir Kalajdzhiev from the Road Administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u146	We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Nastimir Ananiev. They voted 83 MPs: 81, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u147	Let's continue with § 3. Proposal by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev under the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 138c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The technical services shall be legal entities or sole traders which comply with the requirements of the applicable regulatory act and/or art. 61 of Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows: 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: supplied to the requirements of para. 1 shall be certified by an evaluation report. The report may also include an accreditation certificate according to the standards set out in the applicable regulatory acts and other documents issued by a competent authority of a Member State of the European Union certifying the possibility of technical services to carry out the activities referred to in the report. 3. In para. 3: (a) c. 1 words "Executive Agency" "Bulgarian accreditation service" are replaced by "Executive Agency" "Automobile Administration" and the words "the regulations" under art. 138, para. 4s is replaced by the applicable regulatory acts. (b) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." be issued for the activities for which the technical service applies to carry out and with a scope within which the test methods and/or checks are included, in accordance with the applicable regulatory acts. 4. In para. 4 after the words 66, p. 1 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u148	Thank you. Speeches, honourable colleagues? There aren't any. We are voting on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission for § 3, which becomes § 6. Please vote. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u149	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 4, which becomes § 7, as in para. 10, t. 4 the words the holder of it shall be replaced by the person referred to in art. 138c, para. 1..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u150	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 4, which is supported by the Commission and becomes § 7, including the wording of the wording. While you are voting to announce that on the balcony are guests from Varna who watch our work. [[Applause.]] Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u151	Proposal by the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Stanislav Ivanov according to the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new § 8 and 9: ................................................................................... In Article 4 The historical vehicles shall be registered under conditions and in order laid down by the ordinance under para. 2. Upon registration of a historic vehicle, a property document and an identification card shall be presented issued by the International Federation for Ancient Vehicles or by another organisation authorised by it on the territory of a Member State of the European Union. § 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 143 is created. 14: At the request of the owner, the registered road vehicle may be reregistered as a historical vehicle, subject to the conditions and procedure for the registration of such vehicles, as defined by the ordinance under art. 140, para. 2. In this case, the original registration documents provided for the registration of the road vehicle may be returned to the owner.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u152	Statements on the proposed new paragraphs? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on a proposal from the Commission to create new paragraphs 8 and 9. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u153	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become §12.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u154	So far, thank you. Statements on the three proposed paragraphs? I can't see, there aren't any. Honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer, supported by the Commission for paragraphs renumbered 10, 11 and 12 respectively. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u155	Proposal by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev under the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 152 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 2 point (b) shall be added after the word "vehicle'. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: For the issue or extension of the authorisation, the persons referred to in para. 3 submit an application to which they shall apply a declaration that no insolvency procedure has been opened for them and the documents specified by the ordinance under para. 1, t. 3. 3. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The issuing of the authorisation and the extension of the authorisation shall be carried out within 30 days of receipt of the application. 4. In para. 7 after the word 5. In para. 9 the words for each branch shall be deleted and a sentence shall be created second: the duration of the authorisation shall be extended for another 5 years when the person under para. 3 has applied for this before the expiry of the authorisation and complies with the requirements laid down by the regulation under para. 1, t. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u156	Thank you. Statements on the two proposed paragraphs? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, a text of the importer, edited by the Commission for § 8, which is respectively § 13 and a text of the importer, supported by the importer for § 9, which becomes § 14. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u157	According to § 10 the proposal by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev under the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 166a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 words with an approved type shall be deleted and the following words shall be added to the comma and shall be added to the different category L. (b) c. 2 a comma is placed after the word.... and a comma is added.. different from category (c) c. The word "normal' is replaced by "the regulatory'. 2. A new para is being created. 2 and 3: The President of the Commission for Consumer Protection shall be the competent market surveillance authority within the meaning of art. 6, p. 1 of Regulation (EU) No are to be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. The President of the Commission for Consumer Protection shall organise and carry out market surveillance activities for L-category vehicles as well as systems, components or separate technical units for them, in accordance with art. 8 of Regulation (EU) No is amended in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 laying down requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 339/93 (OJ L 218, 30 of 13 August 2008.) which includes carrying out checks on: 1. the presence of a valid certificate of conformity; 2. the presence of mandatory signs and type-approval marks on vehicles, components or separate technical units in accordance with art. 39 of Regulation (EU) No is replaced by the following: 3. the name of the manufacturer, registered trade name or registered trade mark and the address in the European Union on the vehicles, components or separate technical units produced by it made available on the market or, if not possible, on the packaging or in a document accompanying the component or separate technical unit; 4. the measures taken by economic operators referred to in Chapter II and Chapter XII of Regulation (EU) No could be taken where the obligation concerns the market surveillance authority; 5. the conformity of vehicles, systems, components or separate technical units made available on the market with the approved type; 6. the provision of information to consumers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No could include delegated and implementing acts issued on the basis of that Regulation; 7. ensuring the implementation of measures relating to the conduct of withdrawal campaigns in cases where under Regulation (EU) No 166a, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 8. the parts and equipment which may pose a serious risk to the proper functioning of essential systems relating to the safety of vehicles when moving on the road or to their environmental characteristics. (3) In carrying out the market surveillance activities under para. 2, p. 5, 7 and 8 of category L road vehicles as well as of systems, components or separate technical units thereof, the authority referred to in art. 166a, para. 2 may require the necessary information for the implementation of the supervision by the Executive Agency. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 4 and in it: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the words "al." The following shall be added to the list: (b) c. 2 the words with the approved type shall be deleted. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 5 and in it: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the words "al." The following shall be added to the list: (b) c. 1 shall be added at the end of the market surveillance period. 5. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 6 and in it after the words. The following shall be added to the list of items referred to in points (a) and (b) of paragraph 1 of this Article: 6. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 7 and in it after the words. The following shall be added to the list:
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u158	Thank you. Statements on the proposed paragraph? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer edited by the Commission for the renumbered § 15. We are voting on the text proposed by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u159	Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Valkov according to the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Svilenski under the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports both proposals. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 171 the following additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 is created b. "G," "g," (g) which, when driving a motor vehicle, enters after a sign prohibiting the entry of the road vehicle concerned in the event of a temporary ban on movement outside the settlements,.... for a period of one month...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: the following point (a) is (s) to an owner who manages or allows the driving of a driver in a section of the road network with a temporary ban on movement outside the settlements for a period of three months.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u160	Thank you. Statements? There aren't any. Honourable Members, we are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 16. Vote, please. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u161	Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Valkov according to the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 172 the following amendments are made: 1. In para. 3 the words "b" and "b" are replaced by the words "b" and "b" and "b" and "b" are replaced by "b" and "b" and "b" and "b" are replaced by "b" and "b" and "b" are replaced by "b" and "b" and "b" are replaced 2. In para. 4 the words "in" and "in" are replaced by "in" and "in" and "in" and the words "in" and "in" are replaced by "in" and "in" and "in" are replaced by "in" and "in" and "in" are replaced by "in" and "in" and "in" are replaced by "in" and "in" and "in" are replaced by "in" and "in."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u162	Report the next two paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u163	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 18. Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Valkov according to the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 175 is It is punishable by deprivation of the right to drive a motor vehicle for a period of 3 months and a fine of 1000 leva driver who refuses to comply with an order of the traffic control and control authorities in the case of a temporary movement organisation or a temporary traffic ban.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u164	Thank you. Statements on the proposed three paragraphs? There aren't any. Honourable Members, we are voting on an block proposal from the Commission for a new § 17 text of the importer, supported by the Commission for § 18 and a proposal from the Commission for a new § 19. Please, voting mode. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Report § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u165	Proposal by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev under the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 178c The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) c. 6 after the word "Accession', the conclusion of psychological fitness and/or fitness shall be added and after the word "Acceptance' shall be added, except where a conclusion is not permitted, in more than one failure to test the cognitive sphere and/or invalid personality test. (b) Paragraphs 8-12 shall be created: It's 8 o'clock. order or allow the start of the psychological study in an hour other than the pre-destined schedule; 9. order or allow non-compliance with the documentation requirements in relation to the organisation and conduct of psychological research; 10. order or allow the psychological examination to be carried out in a room other than that recorded in the laboratory examination report; 11. order or allow the psychological study of a foreigner in the absence of a translator or in the absence of a statement by the translator that the translation will be made correctly; 12. order or allow a psychological examination of a person who has not submitted the documents specified by the ordinance under art. 152, para. 1, t. 2. 2. In para. 3: (a) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." begin the psychological examination in an hour other than the hour previously announced in the schedule; (b) c. 4 in the beginning is added to the conclusion of psychological fitness and/or the conclusion of psychological fitness and/or the following is added to the word................................. is added.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. (c) c. 5 in the beginning is added...the conclusion of psychological fitness and/or fitness is given; (d) points 6-9 shall be created: It's six. fail to comply with the documentation requirements in relation to the organisation and conduct of psychological research; 7. conduct the psychological examination in a room other than that recorded in the examination report of the laboratory; 8. conduct a psychological study of a foreigner in the absence of a translator or in the absence of a statement by the translator that the translation will be made correctly; 9. conduct a psychological study of a person who does not present the documents defined by the ordinance under art. 152, para. 1, t. 2, and/or does not back up copies of them. 3. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: A fine or a penalty of 200 BGN shall be imposed. to a natural or legal person who allows or commits a breach of the requirements laid down by the ordinance under art. 152, para. 1, t. 2, unless otherwise provided for, more severe punishment. 4. In para. 5 after the word "taximetres" a comma shall be placed and "vehicles for own account" shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u166	Thank you. Statements, honourable Members of § 12 concerning the psychological study of drivers? There aren't any. Honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission for § 12, which becomes § 20. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Please report § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u167	Proposal by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev under the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 178d The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: A vehicle which places on the market a certificate of conformity with an approved type without being issued or places the vehicle on the market in breach of a applicable regulatory act shall be punished with a fine of BGN 2500. 2. In para. 3 words The applicable regulations under art. 138, para. 4 or UN/IEC Regulations or Regulations of European institutions in the field of type-approval of vehicles and 3. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: For infringements provided for in: 1. Article 13 (2) (d) of Regulation (EC) No 715/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2007 on type-approval of motor vehicles with regard to emissions from light passenger and freight vehicles (Euro 5 and Euro 6) and on access to vehicle repair and maintenance information (OB, L 171/1 of 29 June 2007).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 2. Article 15 (2) (e) of Regulation (EC) No 79/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 January 2009 on the type-approval of hydrogen-powered motor vehicles and amending Directive 2007/46/EC (OJ L 35/32 of 4 February 2009.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 7 3. Article 11 (2) (d) of Regulation (EC) No is amended as follows:), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 4. point (d) of Article 76 (2) of Regulation (EU) No is replaced by the following: 5. Article 11 (2) (d) and (e) of Regulation (EU) 2015/758 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on type-approval requirements for the deployment of the 112-based eCall in-vehicle system and amending Directive 2007/46/EC (OB, L 123/77 of 19 May 2015)), hereinafter referred to as the Regulation (EU) 2017/158, a fine of 4000 BGN shall be imposed on a natural person, and a legal person or a sole trader shall be subject to a penalty of 8000 BGN. 4. Paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 shall be inserted: For infringements provided for in: 1. Article 13 (2) (a) and (c) of Regulation (EC) No 715/2007; 2. Article 13 (2) (a) and (c) of Regulation (EC) No 78/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 January 2009 concerning the type-approval of motor vehicles with regard to the protection of pedestrians and other vulnerable persons road users, amending Directive 2007/46/EC and repealing Directives 2003/102/EC and 2005/16/EC, hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 7 3. Article 15 (2) (a) and (c) of Regulation (EC) No 79/2009; 4. Article 11 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EC) No are replaced by the following: 5. Article 16 (2) (a) and (c) of Regulation (EC) No 661/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 concerning type-approval requirements for the general safety of motor vehicles, their trailers and systems, components and separate technical units intended therefor; 6. points (a) and (c) of Article 76 (2) of Regulation (EU) No is replaced by the following: 7. Article 11 (2) (a) and (c) of Regulation (EU) 2015/758 a fine of 3000 BGN shall be imposed on a natural person and a legal person or a single trader shall be charged a penalty of 6000 BGN. (9) For infringements provided for in: 1. point (b) of Article 13 (2) of Regulation (EC) No 715/2007; 2. point (b) of Article 13 (2) of Regulation (EC) No 78/2009; 3. point (b) of Article 15 (2) of Regulation (EC) No 79/2009; 4. point (b) of Article 11 (2) of Regulation (EC) No is amended as follows: 5. point (b) of Article 16 (2) of Regulation (EC) No 661/2009; 6. point (b) of Article 76 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 7. Article 11 (2) (b) of Regulation (EU) 2015/758, a fine of 4000 BGN shall be imposed on a natural person and on a legal person or a sole trader a penalty of 8000 BGN. (10) For infringements provided for in: 1. Article 13 (2) (e) of Regulation (EC) No 715/2007; 2. point (d) of Article 13 (2) of Regulation (EC) No 78/2009; 3. Article 15 (2) (d) of Regulation (EC) No 79/2009; 4. Article 11 (2) (e) of Regulation (EC) No is replaced by the following: 5. Article 76 (2) (e) of Regulation (EU) No is subject to a fine of BGN 2000 and a fine of BGN 4000 for a legal person or a sole trader.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u168	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Get some rest. Anyone wishing to speak on the proposed paragraph, renumbered in the 21st? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, a text of the importer edited by the Commission for § 13. [[Heckling]] The Commission shall support a text of the importer for § 13. [[Heckling]] For the record, we explain that Mr. Ananiev's proposal is supported and integrated in the relevant paragraph, which we are now voting on, and it is § 21. Please, voting mode. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u169	Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov in the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 183 is It is punishable by deprivation of the right to drive a motor vehicle for a period of 1 month and with a fine of 300 BGN. a driver entering after a sign prohibiting the entry of the road vehicle concerned in the event of a temporary traffic ban.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u170	Thank you. There is no proposal for the creation of § 22 speeches. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission to create § 22. Vote 73 MPs: for 71, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u171	Under § 14 "A proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev under the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Stanislav Ivanov according to the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 14, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... Paragraph 6 of the Additional Provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. point 9 is amended as follows: Nine. The type-approval is a procedure to certify that a type of vehicle, system, component or separate technical unit complies with the relevant administrative provisions and technical requirements set out in an applicable regulatory act. 2. A t is created. 66: "66." The regulatory act is: (a) the regulations referred to in art. 138, para. 4; (b) Regulation (EC) No 715/2007, including its implementing acts; (c) Regulation (EC) No 78/2009; (d) Regulation (EC) No 79/2009; (e) Regulation (EC) No 595/2009, including its implementing acts; (f) Regulation (EC) No 661/2009, including its implementing acts; (g) Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows: (h) Regulation of the Economic Commission for Europe of the United Nations annexed to the Agreement concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which may be fitted and/or used on wheeled vehicles and conditions for mutual recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions signed in Geneva on 20 March 1958; (i) the Regulations referred to in Part I of Annex IV to Directive 2007/46/EC, including their implementing acts; (k) Ordinance No H-3 of 2013 amending the construction of registered road vehicles and individual approval of road vehicles registered outside the Member States of the European Union or any other State of the Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; (l) Regulation (EU) 2015/758. 3. A t is created. 67: I'm sorry, The historical vehicle is a mechanically driven road vehicle which is at least 30 years old, not used for daily transport, preserved and maintained in historically correct condition, is part of the world technical and cultural heritage and for which an identification card has been issued by the International Federation for Ancient Cars or by another organisation authorised by it on the territory of a Member State of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u172	Thank you. It's a historical vehicle. It's okay. Statements under § 23? Here you go, Mr. Mihov. I knew you'd talk. You have such a historic vehicle. We know from the media. I hope it won't be subject to the Cultural Heritage Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u173	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for the line. First of all, I have to say that I don't have to declare a conflict of interest because my notorious vehicle is too young. It is for everyday use and has not yet become part of the world's cultural and historical heritage, but perhaps one day it will. I take the floor first of all to thank my colleagues from the Transport Commission to Mr. Ananiev, Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Iskren Veselinov for supporting this amendment. A little story. Already in the Forty-first National Assembly there was a legislative initiative. Today, I think we're doing something good for all car enthusiasts, for all those who are keen on the history of automobile construction. This is good, and I hope, as a first member concerning this change, has been unanimously adopted, that we also accept it. Once again, I thank my colleagues from the Transport Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u174	Thank you. Any of your colleagues have any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission, for § 14, which becomes § 23. Please vote, colleagues. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. This paragraph has indeed been unanimously adopted. Mr. Ananiev, proceed to the end without the last paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u175	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the division. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 25 and in it the word..................................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 26 and in it the word.....................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u176	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We are voting for the importer's texts for paragraphs 15, 16 and 17, respectively, which become paragraphs 24 to 26, including as well as the importer's text for the name of the subdivision which is supported by the Commission. Please, we are voting on an block of proposals made and supported by the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u177	Proposal by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev under the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 18, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of: 1. par. 13, t. 1 and § 20, which shall enter into force one month after the promulgation of the Law in the Official Journal; 2. paragraphs 8, 9 and § 23, p. 3 which enter into force 6 months after the promulgation of the Law in the Official Journal. 3. paragraph 21, t. 3 concerning para. 7, p. 5, § 21, t. 4 concerning para. 8, p. 7 and para. 9, p. 7 and § 23, t. 2 concerning t. Point (l) of Article 66, which shall enter into force on 31 March 2018. 4 paragraphs 1 and 17 which shall enter into force from 22 January 2017 Here I have an editorial proposal. 4 drop, since we have added it to the hypothesis that we are voting on this Law after 21 January, when the other law enters into force, and we are no longer in such a hypothesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u178	Thank you. Replies to the editorial proposal made? I won't. First, we are voting, honourable Members, on the proposed editorial proposal to drop the item. 4 of the proposals § 27. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We now vote on the whole renumbered § 27 at the same time as Mr. Ananiev's proposal and integrated in the text, plus the editorial change made. We are voting on the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u179	70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. Paragraph 27 on the Commission's report has been adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u180	My procedure is related to a technical error which has been made in the Law on Road Transport in the voted item. 1 of § 39. It refers to the provisions of para. 2 in which there is a reference to art. 26, para. 3 and 4 of the repealed Law on People's Education. Please allow for a re-vote in plenary the following text of § 39: .............................................................................. Paragraph 4 of the Final Provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The provisions of para. 1 shall not apply to transport by urban additional lines, to transport by urban and urban lines, which are mainly supported by the historical interest in them or their tourist significance, to specialized and occasional bus services, and to taxi services, except in the case of art. 283, para. 2 of the Preschool and School Education Act. 2. The creation of para. 5. For the purpose of allocating the funds under para. 1 includes intra-urban transport carried out by tram and trolleybus transport and subway.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u181	Is there a reverse opinion on the proposal of the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev, as proposed by the Parliamentary Tribune? There is also a letter to the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsacheva. There's no reverse opinion. We are voting for the proposal for a revoting in the plenary of § 39 of the Road Transport Act, No 654 01-112, submitted by the MPs Ivan Valkov and Stanislav Ivanov on 7 October due to a technical error. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. And now we vote § 39 as presented by the parliamentary tribune by Mr. Ananiev. Vote 67 MPs: 65, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 39 has been reassigned and accepted. Let's continue with: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION LAW. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016. Adopted in the first vote on 21 December 2016. Mr. Svilen Ivanov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 20 September 2016, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on an amendment and supplement to the Environmental Protection Act, No 602-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016. The Law on the Protection of the Environment is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Protection of the Environment. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u183	Statements by name? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the importer, supported by the Commission, for the name of the Law. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. Name accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u184	Procedure on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure, please be admitted to the plenary Hall of Paroleta Luleva "Director of the Department of Prevention at the Ministry of Justice, Silvia Dimitrova, Head of the Department, Maria Galabova "Head of the Department of the same Directorate, and Tanya Hristova "Director.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u185	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting for admission to the plenary of those persons. However, we allow them only for a few seconds until the end of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u186	They will also be allowed for tomorrow's session.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-18.u187	Vote 66 MPs: 63, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Tomorrow, when we proceed with the relevant bill, they will be admitted. Before announcing the termination of the meeting, I will remind you, honourable Members, that tomorrow we begin the meeting at 10:00 with a solemn ceremony for the taking of oath by the newly elected President of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Rumen Radev. My fellow Members, I'm adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
