ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! Please, registration mode. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting, there's a quorum. Today we continue with the vote on art. 51 on the Commission report. First of all, I'm putting it to the vote. 3 of art. The proposal made by the National Representative Krasteva for dropping the number Vote 219 MPs: 93 against 113 abstentions 13. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 51 on the Commission report. Vote 218 MPs: 132, against 84, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Re-vote, please. Dear Mr. Popov, you are an experienced parliamentarians and a lawyer. Please, no arguments, to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u2	I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. Some of the colleagues failed to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u3	Thank you. Revoting procedure. Vote 219 MPs: 130 against 89, no abstentions. Article 51 of the Commission report has been adopted. Here's a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! The state besides territory, borders, population and institutions is also forms of social regulation, namely religion, law, morals, education, notice the media, publicity, civil rights and freedoms. I voted against it because, in order for there to be a political debate, there must be, firstly, political parties, and political parties cannot be if there is no state. I voted against it because being a patriot is not a reward, it is not a sign, it is not a medal, it is a special duty and responsibility. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u5	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u6	You can't be a patriot and kick national security, national foundations of the state, and reach out first to the media, to the freedom and rights of citizens. That is why I voted against it, because you cannot love your country, on the one hand, and, on the other, hate democracy, freedoms and people. That's my voice against it. I voted against it, I say it sincerely, because yesterday I was amazed and stepped on by the irony and echidity of Mr. Simeonov [[noise and lines, laughter]] , from Mr. Tsvetanov's waving finger and the way he held a tone of our colleague. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Dear colleagues of GERB, in my opinion you underestimate the political moment because twice you are trying to complete your mandate, now you will try a third time, but you know which person, when every time you try to do things the same way, expects a different result. That's why today I'm gonna tell you what day it is...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u7	You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u8	Today is not a day when we vote against public broadcasts, today is the beginning of the end of this model of governance. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Others? Here you go, Mrs. Nino. Second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u10	Mr. Chairman and colleagues! I voted against it for reasons which we have already highlighted in the discussion. Censorship, limiting freedom of speech, but especially for a third and important reason. It's not the most important thing for us, colleagues, to be on TV, they give us enough. The great reason is that in this way you limited the right of access to information of Bulgarian citizens. This is one of the reasons why I voted against. But there is another one that reminds of the past, and also shows what the future of the Forty-fourth National Assembly will be. And this is Mr. Tsvetanov's statement, which he personally addressed, attacked and involved the family of a colleague of mine. Mr. Tsvetanov, we will not allow you in this Parliament to attack MPs from BSP for Bulgaria, without arguments and without reasons. [[(Laughter) Loud noise and lines from GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u11	Mrs. Ninova, this can't be the cause of a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u12	This is a reason because it shows the style that will be required in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u13	For your negative vote, there's no way that's a reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u14	On the occasion of one vote, a man in the ruling majority hinted about human rights, about democracy. I mean the style I'm talking about. Tsvetan Tsvetanov has seven times become the reason for the condemnation of Bulgaria in Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u15	Mrs. Ninova, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u16	...by naming it juicy in the decision of the European Court of Human Rights and Bulgaria has been condemned and taxpayers have paid. Yesterday, we were again waving a finger here, talking about human rights and attacking a young colleague from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. Now that shows style. This style, which was in the previous parliaments, which you will impose in this and which we will categorically oppose. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u17	Third negative vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I give my negative vote because yesterday we talked a lot about human rights and spoke the most colleagues from GERB. I would like to appeal to them to be humbled when we talk about human rights, because in this House we often break every subject through the prism of political speaking and we are not quite objective. If we want to be objective, then I urge you to walk to the hospital in Gorna Oryahovitsa, to the maternity ward, and see...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u19	Mr. Bojankov, I'll take your word for it! Negative vote on the occasion of a specific text.. You must argue!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u20	...photos...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u21	That's what I'm talking about. [[Noise and lines.]] Don't call from the gym. Don't call from the gym! Do you know the negative vote procedure what it means, Mr. Bojankov and colleagues? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u22	...to see the pictures standing on the walls, to talk to doctors, to hear from them their point of view about human rights being violated...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u23	What's this got to do with Channel 1 and Channel 2? I'll take your word for it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In the manner of conduct please, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova! Yes, indeed, our country is condemned, but not for reasons that are only from the Ministry of Interior. [[Noise and lines.]] Wait, wait, wait!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u25	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Tsvetanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u26	In the manner of conduct, because, Mr President, what was her attitude in the manner of conduct and everything as a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u27	Yeah, the blame is on me for letting her talk like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u28	Yeah, the blame is right on you for the way you run it. ("Eeeeeeeeeee.") Mrs. Ninova, when we talk about affected rights, just to remind you that as Deputy Minister of Economy you are the one who gave the Plovdiv Fair. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Didn't you harm the Bulgarian citizens in the way you gave a fair to one of your fellow parties? Let us be moderate in our speeches because what GERB did in the first term in the fight against crime, gave our country recognition that it has efficiency and that we have actually stopped these abductions that were monthly with you. Do you know about armed robberies when our country was set as an example in a negative plan for what it was as inability for people to be calm and secure in our country? Ms. Ninova, you must go out and tell us how and why you took this political decision in the cabinet Stanishev with Minister Ovcharov so that you can give away a Plovdiv fair, which to this day you all know what you have done? Why did you do it this way? Didn't you hurt the Bulgarian taxpayer? [[Applause from GERB.]] Didn't you hurt the Bulgarians? For millions of levs! And what Sergey Stanishev did was to fire you, and I don't know why and what his motives were, but as far as I know, he fired you in a way that you suffered your political responsibility. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u29	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. How many people are in the way of driving? Just figure out who's after who, and I'll let you guys say whatever you want. (.................................).................................................................... Here you go. Who's first? Mr. Kutev, come in. I think you'll make a good description of all the people you're talking about. Here you go. You have the floor. Come in the manner of conduct. [[Noise and lines.]] There's no personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u30	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry, but what you're doing right now is you're missing the hall. And that's not what we have to do. My procedure in the manner of conduct is that you must find as President of the National Assembly a way, and this way is in the procedures, things to go smoothly and no personal insults. What Mr. Tsvetanov has done has obviously crossed all limits. [[Reply from the hall: "Cornelia, Cornelia! "]] I'm being asked by Cornelia from the auditorium. I don't know why we should have this dialogue between us, but Cornelia was talking about cases that were filed and completed...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u31	Well, stop the dialogue with the gym and we won't talk!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u32	...and that some people are convicted of. The question here is Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u33	It's the way you keep it. [[Noise and lines.]] Don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u34	The way we lead! I'm going back to him. If you do not hold discipline and order in the Chamber with the procedures, it will become a Mahlenian dispute. I'm sorry, but Mr. Tsvetanov already turned it around. Level's up. Don't go any further, please! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u35	The appeal is to all speakers. As you understand procedures! I'll let you make a full appearance! Who's next? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! The President of the National Assembly is first among equals. It should apply the same archin to all Members of the National Assembly. It is unacceptable the dependence in which you have put yourself and demonstrated here the President of the National Assembly, with severe dependence on the President of the Parliamentary Group of GERB, has just become clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u37	And the BSP too! You should have said before that I was addicted, because I let you talk out of procedure. By the way, who is it? Next? Are you Mrs. Ninova? [[Relations from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] I won't give you a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I will not give you a personal explanation! If you want the way you want it, come on in. Anyone who wants to do the way you want to do it, come on in!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u38	Mr. Chairman, the procedure is to say things that do not refer to this diaspora.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u39	You started it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u40	So I hope I have that opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u41	Sure, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u42	And divide Mr. Tsvetanov's speech or manner of conduct into two. One is about human rights, principles and judgment procedures in Strasbourg, which he is talking about. They are seven and seven times about preliminary sentences given by Mr. Tsvetanov, guilty people against whom the investigation continues and is not over. Mr. Tsvetanov told us in advance who was guilty and who was innocent. This is why Bulgaria has been convicted and all taxpayers have paid for this his will and violation of human rights. I'm going to the second part for the fair. Don't give sentences again from this tribune! There's order, laws and Constitution in the state. Since 2009, you have ruled this country with small periods where you are not in power. What have you done so far that you have not investigated the privatization of the Plovdiv Fair? And if you're people who hold on to the laws, order and constitution, you know where the prosecution is, you know where the court is, go today, file a lawsuit against whom the order and the Constitution in the state must be respected. Whoever violated them should go where they belong, but after the designated authorities in Bulgaria are pronounced. Not one person, both five years ago, both two years ago and in the future, to issue sentences from the stand of the legislative authority. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Are there any more? Ms. Karayancheva, please record those who wish for a procedure in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We thought the bottom with the completion of the forty-third parliament was achieved, but apparently the forty-four will continue digging down. I do not see how if, on one side of the Chamber, they have a claim to the upbringing and behaviour of the other side of the Chamber, respectively, with the same actions and even exceeding them in rudeness and indiscretion, they intend to fight their colleagues. I believe that this is not right. In this sense, our small, cohesive group... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u45	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u46	...the political party will be the example of how we should behave in the National Assembly and that not only with calls, screaming, but perhaps later you will get to fight, but on the contrary, with polite behavior, only with arguments, we must defend our own. And because it is in the manner of holding the Mr. President, I will ask you to follow the strictest of the Rules of Procedure, because if we miss the beginning, I am really worried that maybe at some point in the National Assembly there will be a fight. Thank you. I wish you a successful meeting..............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. The word has the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev. After him, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u48	Dear Mr. President, I am making you a remark in the manner of conduct, because in the course of a procedure, you have allowed BSP colleagues to say whatever they want, which has nothing to do with the text voted, whether parliamentary control should be transmitted on BNT 1 or BNT 2. Apparently, colleagues have had some memorable speeches, affected by unknown what in the last few days, perhaps nervous by meetings at the Executive Bureau of BSP, which make up the current topics of the last few days, but you are the President of the National Assembly and should not allow the MPs to use the procedures as a negative vote and by the way of a statement to say what they want. Because that's exactly what's happening right now. Everyone takes the floor, goes into procedure and says whatever they want, pre-trained. And if the young colleague who spoke at the last negative vote is for the first time a Member of the National Assembly, perhaps he does not know the procedures, because the Rules of Procedure have just adopted it, there is no excuse for Mrs. Nino, who is not the first person in the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u49	Thank you. Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, my speech is regarding the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u51	Until now, such statements have been continuous.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u52	Because in this form it is allowed to speak untruths from Mrs. Ninova, spoken exactly 10 minutes ago of these microphones. Ms. Ninova, it is not true that the Political Party GERB has not done checks on the theft of the century in Plovdiv the so-called International Fair. [[Applause from GERB.]] The reports of the General Directorate of the Crime Police are sinking in 2010 in the direction of the Prosecutor's Office. Since last summer, I was elected representative of the Municipality of Plovdiv in the General Assembly of the Municipality of Poldin, a company through which this privatisation takes place, as a representative of the Political Party GERB. The theft of the century through the town of Poldin, Mrs. Nino, and the companies of your comrade Georgi Gergov managed to drain 150 million from the Municipality of Plovdiv. lv. in the form of expensive properties. It is through this company that the privatization of the Fair takes place, where half a billion total drains from the municipality and from the state. This happened during the period from 15 June 2006 to 19 April 2007, when he managed the triple coalition when the Minister of Economy was Mr. Ovcharov and Mrs. Ninova was Deputy Minister and Chairman of the Board of Directors of...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u53	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u54	...the same one... [[National Representative Spas Gurnevski speaks in off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u55	You have no say in this. Sit down, Mr. Gurnevsky! If you are not aware, I hope that you in this Chamber are aware, but if viewers and listeners are not aware, all speeches are in the manner of conduct. Then I'll read you what that includes. Don't be surprised what's being said here, from the beginning it's just a procedure of conduct. Everyone who speaks makes a characteristic of the knowledge of the Rules of the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u56	Dear Mr. Glauchev, the best characteristic you have done for yourself by allowing complete disregard of the Rules of the National Assembly and chaotic speeches on various topics. If you think it's a good testimonial for you, it's not for us and I have to admit I didn't expect it, but I'll say I miss Tsetska Tsacheva. [[Radio.]] Since you are obviously incapable of mastering the Chamber and procedures, you have admitted this situation, I suggest you go and rest in the room of the President of the National Assembly and withdraw the meeting until at least noon...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u57	I can give you your room if you need it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u58	...to one of the vice presidents, so it was him and Mrs. Karayancheva. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u59	Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, it will be very difficult for me to speak after the proletarian flame in the eyes and words of Mr. Gurnevsky. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] But still, I want to agree with Mr. Dobrev that you really don't handle this function.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u61	Don't you agree with Mr. Vigenin?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u62	Mr. Dobrev, offer someone else, we will not vote abstention, this time we will support and elect another chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u63	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov. By the way, let me remind you that we proposed to Mrs. Ninova. [[Laughter and applause at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appeal to you in the manner of conduct, as what is happening at the moment makes little sense to the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u65	It's completely meaningless.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u66	Please take a note and let's stop it for one simple reason. If I may, I will address all Members of the National Assembly. In economic theory, there is a Swedish economist, Knut Vixel, who has the so-called Vixel Trap. For those of you who do not know what it is, the Viking trap is when you think you are doing an action and it will bring positive for you, and it actually leads to a negative. This applies to absolutely everyone in this room. If we think that we should continue in the same way and that we will draw some positives, you are cruelly mistaken. In the end, we only drag him to negatives. So, Mr President, and to all colleagues: let us, as adults, think very seriously and take this debate seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u67	Thank you. Any other procedures? I can't see. We're moving on to the report. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u68	Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u69	Mr. Kirilov, I'm sorry to interrupt, but obviously some procedures had to be improved by the Rules of Procedure Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u70	And I thank you for this notation. Yes, I strongly agree with you, because any abuse can lead to precedent, and it is a reason to do an analysis and to comply with the infringement. Yes, there is a need for a procedure to terminate procedures in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u71	Thank you. Let's move on to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u72	Under art. 49 has a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "Each session, starting with the plenary week, begins with a hearing of the Himmna of the Republic of Bulgaria." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, para. 3 words are dropped only once in one sitting. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the test of the project for art. 49, which becomes art. 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u73	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u74	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We proposed in art. 49, para. It concerns the roll call check and the possibility of requesting one, in practice, the possibility that each single parliamentary group within a single meeting would request this procedure. Parliamentary groups in all their powers in all other procedures are identical and equal, except this one. That is why we have made this proposal. It is clear that each parliamentary group should have this opportunity within the framework of the sitting. If a parliamentary group requests a roll call check, then it is overturned, the possibility of other parliamentary groups at a later stage to do, express the same procedure. That's not fair. It is also not in line with the other powers of the parliamentary groups described in detail in the Rules of Procedure. We therefore hope that this proposal will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u75	And thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will motivate our proposal, it was reported by Mr Kirilov, namely at the beginning of the plenary week the National Assembly to start hearing the anthem. The anthem, as you all know, is a national symbol and element of the self-consciousness of Bulgarian citizens. In this regard, we find it appropriate for the MPs forming the supreme legislative body of the state to start their work by listening in the first session of the week to the national anthem of the republic. Like the other national symbols, the flag and coat of arms of the Republic of Bulgaria are present daily in plenary, as we believe it is appropriate to hear the anthem at the beginning of the plenary week and not only at the beginning of the sessions of the National Assembly as it is now. I believe that this will not take much time from legislative work, nor should any of us be ashamed of hearing the national anthem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u77	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines? I won't. The People's Representative Tasco Ermenkov has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u78	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I, too, would like to defend the proposal of colleagues Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs on dropping the words only once at the request of a parliamentary group and try to justify it. Now, I would like to remind you of how laws with a sanitary minimum of 61 votes were adopted to all who were in the past National Assembly, and important laws relating to finances related to the situation of people associated with benefits and so on. You are not surprised why, apart from all the procedures you are talking about and insisting that they undermine the authority of the National Assembly, this is also one of the reasons why this authority should be brought down.. the adoption of important laws with a clear absence of MPs from their seats. I understand the trick that was applied in the past National Assembly. I use the word "trick" for a reason so that I do not use the word "kidrenka" or something pò in which the majority responsible, by gathering a majority in the Chamber, so that the corresponding quorum of 121 people can have. Then he quickly disbanded and left, and no one had the right then to check the quorum under important laws, and apparently there were no more than 70-80 people present in the Chamber. So please very much, if you do not want this measure to be restrictive, let this restriction be removed. Because all parliamentary groups are interested in the important laws being adopted by the respective majority. The greater the majority and the greater the participation of those who voted for a law, the more weight it is, I think. Even though it's a formality, even though you're going to tell me that 61 votes can be passed any law. Yes, for formal reasons, we can, but whether society accepts the way these laws are adopted is another matter. In this regard, let each parliamentary group have the opportunity, in case there is any doubt about the quorum in the National Assembly when voting on important laws, and at all when voting on laws, because minor laws are not available, to have the opportunity to request a name check. I am not saying that each group should have the right 10 times a sitting, but each group should have the opportunity to ask for a name check, so that we can really, first of all, be equal as parliamentary groups, secondly, have a slightly more disciplined influence on the presence of MEPs in the Chamber and ensure the adoption of the laws with yet a slightly more solid involvement of lawmakers. Therefore, if, in your opinion, the whole expression is exaggerated only once in one sitting, I suggest that you do so so that the President is entitled to do so on his own initiative...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u79	He's always right.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u80	..she is always entitled to call and make a roll call....and a parliamentary group only once in one sitting has the right to ask for a roll call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. For a replica, the People's Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor for a reply to object to the opinion of colleague Tasco Ermenkov regarding the practice of the last parliament. I believe that in the practice of the last Parliament we had legislation that was fundamentally different from the previous one, that is, we have made an attempt in legislative work to seek as much consensus as possible. That wasn't true. Many bills have been submitted together with importers from different parliamentary groups. The important bills, as you say, have been supported not only by one parliamentary group. We, in the work of the Temporary Committee, have fallen into this situation several times, and I would not like to fall into plenary, but I would ask that we compare the rules. The Rules of Procedure by 2013 say that a parliamentary group may request at most twice a total in a single meeting by name verification. The Rules of the Forty-second National Assembly say "no more than one time. " This is the rule, as has been established in the 42nd Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u84	Colleague Kirilov, I am also a supporter of reading what rules have been adopted, but the fact that rules have been adopted that restrict the rights of the MPs and the parliamentary groups to ask for a name check cannot be an indulgence that we will do so in the future. The time is now to fix this thing and I say again, each parliamentary group is equal to the other parliamentary groups and there is nothing wrong with having every parliamentary group able to...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u85	...to ruin the sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u86	...in the event of a doubt in the availability of the quorum, to request once a meeting by name verification of the quorum. That we have adopted laws by consensus, well, I don't mind, but that is no reason to limit the number of votes for this law. Moreover, you can see that, at the very beginning of the registration of Members of the National Assembly in the Chamber, which also matters to how many votes the laws are adopted, the President of the National Assembly usually rushes so, if he can, to cut them down to 121 registered, right, the ideal case for registration to begin the work. So once again, please, let's be reasonable. There will be no abuse of this thing, but it will have a disciplinary effect... [[Laughter at GERB]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u87	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u88	...on the coworkers. Otherwise you remember in the past the National Assembly, again I will repeat, usually the one who calls the most from the moment it became, wanted a name check, this check was carried out, after which, with an excuse for the expression, the ruling whipped each other [[Laughter at GERB]] And the laws passed by 61 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u89	And you stayed here from morning till night!?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u90	Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I accept that the task for which we are gathered is not to make the rules work, if possible, without being abused by any of the parties. The current text, I think, is from the forty-third or forty-second National Assembly, the idea is that we have proposed it...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u92	Remember 2013!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u93	...and that's true.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u94	Please don't engage in dialogue!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u95	It introduces practice, as mentioned by the colleague, which we have obviously found ourselves a way around it. For example, the parliamentary group of GERB, wants a name check and from now on the name check cannot be done. What we propose enables each parliamentary group to do this once in a sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u96	We offered it in the Forty-First National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u97	In my opinion, this is also an opportunity, but it cannot be abused. The Bulgarian Socialist Party can only request such verification once. There are five parliamentary groups in this National Assembly. I don't believe and I don't see how it can happen that in one sitting there are three name checks just because there is no such interest at the moment. I took the floor to say that I support the text that we have made as a proposal, because for me it is a way to find a consensus where we do not abuse both of them. It seems to me that such a text is reasonable enough to preserve the possibilities for normal parliamentary work. Otherwise, the other option is when there are only fifty people in the room. You understand yourself that you have been doing this since the first National Assembly, which GERB entered, this was your main topic of how many people are standing in the Chamber, i.e. this text is dealing with the same issue. It seems to me he's making sense. If we don't vote on it right now, we'll just make the National Assembly work worse. It is therefore not speculation, but my firm conviction that it brings results.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? First, the People's Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kutev, I took the liberty and, with apologies, I broke the rules, as you spoke, to replicate you: It is largely a sign of the development and suppression of parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u100	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u101	2013 matters not only because you needed one vote and one hundred and one vote to adopt a government, it matters because then we challenged the rules of the Rules of Procedure not only in plenary, but we were looking for a broad constitutional debate. I conclude with the following: the tendency to limit requests for name verification is from 2005, since 2005! By 2005, until the triple coalition, there was no restriction on the parliamentary groups to request such a procedure to the parliament of the triple coalition. Once it has been clearly demonstrated for these twelve years that this procedure is being abused, the only reasonable reserve is that power to be strengthened by the President, who monitors the quorum and cannot without the quorum. Therefore, a roll call check can be carried out at any time when, figuratively speaking, the quorum is threatened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line, Mr. Krasimir Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We all know this debate is absolutely pointless! It's pointless because we've all known in these years, since this rule was introduced, what it's used for. And now to sit here and convince ourselves how democratic it would be for everyone to want a name check, it's not normal for me, it's not normal for me. A member of the management of a parliamentary group cannot say that he wants a name check, and he has previously told everyone to leave the room and he is also leaving the room so that he would not possibly be included as a attendee! What are we lying about here and pretending to be democratic about?! [[Noise and lines.]] In 2013, you introduced this rule and very well remember that there were four parliamentary groups, three of which were in the management. You introduced him because GERB could ask for a name check, and now the groups are five, of which three are in opposition. You want us to return something so that we can make the National Assembly work worse! We all know that this procedure worsens not only the work of the National Assembly, but undermines the authority of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u104	We learned it from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u105	I think it's the responsibility of each and every one of us, whether in government or in opposition. Let's think about this a little bit: whether we should work for the authority of the National Assembly, the MP, because we all know that in Bulgaria there is a certain circle of people whose aim is that no institution in the state should have authority, not to have strong institutions, because when the institutions do not have authority, then the best is stolen and all irregularities in the state are made. When there are weak institutions in a country, the state is weak! Our duty here, of all of us, is that every institution has authority to have a strong state! Then we'll have authority too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. The third line is from Mr. Veselin Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! From the speeches so far of Mr. Kutev, Mr. Ermenkov and Mr. Velchev, I am beginning to hope that we all want to unite around to raise the rating of the National Assembly. With such pointless arguments, however, one at a time, twice, how many parliamentary groups, this will not happen! I will bring you back to what I said the last time and which makes the dispute meaningless by giving hope for what we are all talking about now, namely the decisions in the National Assembly to be adopted with a hundred and twenty-one votes. Then every vote will be called a quorum, counting the quorum. What's on the table right now? In principle, we can sit fifty people in the Chamber, but if anyone has a claim to a decision, then ask for a quorum. As you can see, we're here all the time and in a complete set, and that's how we're gonna be. The idea, if we all adopt this decision, is that the decisions of the National Assembly be adopted by a quorum of one hundred twenty-one people. Then I guarantee that every day there will be a minimum of 200 people in this room. That's exactly the job of the MP. If anyone does not want to be a Member of the National Assembly, leave the National Assembly. If he wants to come to work and vote on the laws that are in the interest of the state and the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u108	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. This was all about Mr. Kutev. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Velchev, I think the concern for the image of the National Assembly here is common. However, I think the question is how it is achieved. The mechanism to have more people in this room is not just that. Maybe this mechanism is the smallest. There are other mechanisms, for example, one of them is the morning suspension of registration not to be made between thirty seconds and the first minute, but to make a circular one minute so that the President cannot stop the quorum of one hundred twenty-eight. Here's another mechanism! Whether we therefore choose the mechanism that we are now discussing or apply another, which is not proposed now, is another matter. If we want to raise the authority of the National Assembly, we must make sure that there are people here to take responsibility. When people look at us outside, don't let them see our room empty. It's part of these mechanisms. That we introduced it in 2013 was the big problem. Yeah, but we also introduced the blitzcontrol. Therefore, the accusation that some evil anti-democratics ruled in 2013 and now the Democrats have come is obviously not because now the Democrats will abolish the blitzcontrol, which is obviously a democratic process. Perhaps when it comes to a political process, there is some sort of conflict of interest. However, there are things that we can find consensus on, so we are discussing. If I didn't hope in any way that I would turn to conscience, to understanding, to some common sense within you, I wouldn't speak. You have a majority, you will make it public, we do not need to discuss this in the National Assembly. The whole debate is being held because I have hope that there is some common sense, perhaps you do the same. I continue to believe that there is common sense to be supported here. If not supported, then the other logic is, again, let's go back and make the registration in the morning not between thirty seconds and one minute, but round one minute. Then the quorum will be bigger and we will achieve what Mr. Mareshki was talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u111	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I will be very brief. You said very correctly, Mr. Kutev, exactly what rules should be built for authority. Here, if you now, or all of us decide that in a roll call check, every single parliamentary group on which the presence here is less than 50% is considered that the entire parliamentary group has not been working and carries all the sanctions "financial and so on, and to the media to explain why the whole group has not been working. If we introduce this rule, then I agree to continue the registration itself for as long as you say, or to have as many n checks as you want, but on this condition, if 50% of the parliamentary group is missing, and that in previous parliaments has happened very often to you in the previous parliament. And you can see...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u112	And you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u113	No, we were dating. We've left Parliament at all, but that's another way to do it, if you want to do it, so do you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u114	Please don't call from the hall. Mr. Velchev, do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u115	I'm talking about taking you to work, but you're not in the gym. And we can take that by the number of votes, because you know it's in the National Assembly. We will remove all the minutes from the votes and you will see how many times you voted as a group that there are days in which the whole group has not voted as much as one GERB MP. [[Radio and lines in "BSP" for Bulgaria " and DPS."]] Yeah. Okay, I'll get it out in the media.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u116	Take it out for the previous National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u117	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I make a speech about the proposal we have made each week at the beginning of the meetings to start with the Bulgarian anthem. We believe that this is important in view that Bulgarian MPs should show respect for the Bulgarian symbols. And there is nothing more regular than to start working with the Bulgarian anthem. I believe that this is important from the point of view that showing and respecting the state symbols will also make it possible to like Parliament or to approve of Parliament more than people, because we will show respect for the state symbols. Nothing prevents the Bulgarian anthem from sounding more frequently in the plenary as the crest is present, as is the Bulgarian flag. We were listening to crazy debates right now about how to request a name check and so on, but I did not hear the other parliamentary groups speak on this issue. I am very interested in what will the DPS, BSP or party say? What do the Bulgarian anthem have against sounding more frequently in the Bulgarian Parliament? I call on you to take a stand as men, say what is the position of your parliamentary groups and will you support this proposal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u120	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? Here you are.. People's representative Hamid Hamid Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Angelov, we do not mind the Bulgarian anthem and if you remember in the Forty-third National Assembly we supported your proposal to make it sound at the beginning of each session. However, Mr. Angelov, the very anthem of the Republic of Bulgaria suggests solemnity, suggests something new as a beginning. The very weekly sound of this anthem, the routine sound itself brings down this solemnity a little bit. Let us not lower the hymn to something daily, and it remains as a solemn symbol of the opening of the session. That's why.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u122	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Popov. Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Angelov, the anthem of the Republic of Bulgaria is a pure and holy symbol and should not be speculated with it in this way. Because patriotism, respect for statehood, for state, respect for institutions and the hymn, of course, is not expressed only by listening to the anthem monthly. The anthem really, here I agree with the previous one, should be used really more special occasions. We also supported the idea that each session of the National Assembly should begin with the anthem, which is quite normal, quite formal, we admire you for this idea, but the monthly exploitation of the anthem will lead to its demotion. And it's not a question of demagogy, it's a question of reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Here you are, Mr. Mareshki, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Angelov, I regret that it has come to the so-called Patriots of the DPS to explain to them how the anthem is actually used. [[DPS lines.]] In fact, I was going to support you, but it is your opinion whether you should listen politely to what I have to say, as I am listening to you, or replicate from this House. We will not support this proposal because the Bulgarian anthem is not a popular Bulgarian song to play when it is nice to listen to it, because after a while someone can propose after lunch, before lunch and for dinner before we leave. It is in this regard that we support all parliamentary parties that have spoken so far and on the same occasion that the anthem is something sacred, something solemn and it is normal to release when there are such occasions, namely at the beginning of the sessions. This is a solemn occasion, not its daily use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u126	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Mr. Angelov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u127	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I was very entertained by the definitions of the hymn as a funny song or something that would actually scrub it if we played it more often. If every meeting or every day of parliament is not a solemn thing for the Bulgarian democracy and for the Bulgarian people, namely that here these people should determine the future of the country and make important decisions, then we should remove the coat of arms and the flag, because we pollute them most probably every day by standing, that is to say put them only at the beginning of the session. Because I do not see the hymn being anything more than a coat of arms or a Bulgarian flag.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u128	Less maybe. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u129	So this logic of yours isn't right. And I'll give you a few examples. In the French Senate every day the meetings begin with the French anthem. In your favorite country to the south of us until recently, I will tell you that there are no certain celebrations there, but every school and every day the beginning of the classes. [[DRF lines]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u130	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u131	Every day, every school in Turkey starts with the Turkish anthem. And they don't respect the hymn and rub it? So I call on all the parliamentary groups not to talk nonsense, not to talk about how we will scrub the anthem, but to really respect Bulgarian symbols. We are obliged to Bulgaria, as in the last elections you stated that all are patriots, and not only are we patriots? be patriots and support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u132	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Hamid's manner of conduct. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Honourable President, please do not allow Members of the National Assembly to use the term so-called "Patriots" to the DPS Parliamentary Group. This definition is reserved for another parliamentary group and we have no desire to embezzle their false epithetes. Thank you. [[Applause from the DPS. A line from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u134	Any other speeches? I won't. Procedures? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of Members of the National Assembly - the Commission does not support it. Vote 180 MPs: 16 against 8, abstention 156. The offer is not accepted. A proposal from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 188 MPs: for 82, against 86, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 52 on the Commission report. Vote 184 MPs: 100 against 2, abstention 82. Article 52 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Article 50. Proposal by the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50, para. 8 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. in a sentence first, at the beginning of the text, the words 2. in the sixth sentence, at the end of the text, after the word "proposals', a comma shall be placed and added, but not completed and/or a discussion on which the vote has not been held due to the conclusion of the meeting shall be completed, respectively, within the next meeting. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 50, which becomes art. 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u136	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u137	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Article 50 (8) gives a very good opportunity every first Wednesday of the month for the National Assembly's agenda to be formed on a proposal from the parliamentary groups. This is also a very good opportunity for the opposition to make its proposals and to include them on the agenda of the National Assembly. From the debate in the Temporary Commission, I was under the impression that the majority Members did not agree to support our proposal. The comments were rather to the point. 1. Therefore, dear Mr. Kirilov, I will propose that you put to a separate vote our proposal under art. 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u138	That Mr. Kirilov won't be able to do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u139	Good to you, Mr. Chairman. And to ask my colleagues in this Chamber to pay attention to this. 2. When a parliamentary group has made a proposal for the agenda, when we have all approved the inclusion on this agenda of examining the relevant bill or decision, we have very often seen a situation where parliamentary time did not reach, it was not enough to complete the discussion and to come to the vote on the relevant bill or draft decision. What we do is, in my opinion, the most logical thing in the case of already expressed will to address this issue by the National Assembly if it does not reach parliamentary time on this first Wednesday of the month, the examination and voting of the bill will continue at the next plenary session. Quite logically, I ask that it be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u140	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u141	My line, Mr. Boychev, to you is purely terminologically not essentially. The Honourable President yesterday used the expression "societal vote." I don't know when it's been entered, whether or not it's started to say it in this Parliament. By the separate vote on the hypotheses in one text! This is not a separate meal, colleagues, to introduce such terminology. We need to use precise and clean terms. This is part of our work, and we who make the laws, if we don't do it here, what to talk about those who will apply them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Any other lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want to develop a little bit more t. 2 of the proposal of colleagues from the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria. After all, the procedure envisaged for every first Wednesday is an opportunity for the opposition to put some of the bills, which, otherwise, based on the deployment of the forces in the National Assembly, cannot be included on the agenda. The idea is not only to include these bills, to read their title, the reasons and the draft decision and, in my opinion, to discuss the democratic in this case would be if the process of examining the bill was brought to its logical conclusion. Nothing prevents the ruling parties if they do not agree with the bill proposed by the opposition or one of the parliamentary groups to vote against..................................................................................... I don't see the logic in this after you started discussing a bill, getting to the middle and ending it because of the formal closure of time. If we refer it to all other laws, that would mean: if on the day you have not considered the bill, not to transfer it to a discussion the next day, you simply forget about it for an uncertain future. In the end, all bills, including those tabled in this order, are equal and should be considered in substance, voted by the decision taken by the National Assembly to be either adopted or rejected. The other is only imitating some democraticity that will lead to this: yes, we cannot cancel your bill, although there have been cases in the last parliament, when for formal reasons such laws have not been dealt with, but we will not accept it to the end, because we will consider it so that time will be over. I therefore call on you to support a second point at least in this proposal and to start a bill for consideration not to be interrupted in the middle, but to bring it to its logical end. I hope for a democratic approach to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is a practice in many European parliaments on certain days of the week only to have a debate, and in other days to vote only on the draft laws already under discussion. Of course, we have another practice, but the logic is that this legislative process should be continuous. The legislative work of the National Assembly is precisely to debate and ultimately to express the will of each Member of the National Assembly by voting on the respective bill. Therefore, I think that our proposal is logical enough, it is also in line with European practice in addition to this, and also in line with the parliamentary and legislative functions of the National Assembly as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Zhelyo Boychev to vote on this. 1 and 2 of his proposal separately. Isn't the term right? Vote this proposal... do you agree to vote 1 and 2 item separately on a proposal from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs? Vote 177 MPs: 86, against 75, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the proposal itself to the vote in its entirety. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 178 MPs: 74 against 80 abstentions 24. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 53 on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 178 MPs: 103, against 2, abstention 73. Art. 53 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There was a proposal of the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 51, which becomes 54.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u148	Please present the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u149	In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 51, para. 6 the words at the meeting shall be replaced by the meeting starting the week in which the sitting begins.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u150	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 180 MPs: 12, against 77, abstention 91. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 54 on the Commission report. Vote 175 MPs: for 174, against none, abstention 1. Article 54 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u151	Article 52, which becomes art. 55 is supported by the Commission. There are no proposals. Article 53, which becomes art. 56 is also supported by the Commission. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 54, which becomes art. 57. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 55, which becomes art. 58. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Article 56, which becomes Art. 59.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u152	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote Members from 55 to 59, including on the Commission's report. Please vote. Vote 178 MPs: for 178, against and abstention there is no. Articles 55 to 59, including, have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u153	Proposal of the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1 the Union after the one after the one after the one after the one after the other is replaced by the one after The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 57, which becomes art. 60.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u154	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our proposal is precisely in relation to art. 57, para. 1 " When the people's representative has been personally or individually affected. This union has changed with the Union, which implies the existence of cumulation, i.e. the national representative should once be personally affected, the second time his name should be mentioned in order to be entitled to this procedure of personal explanation. This change was necessary in the previous National Assembly. I think it was proposed by Mr. Bajraktarov, if memory serves, and until then it was used individually, personally or individually, alternately. Even you yesterday, Mr. President, in the discussion you claimed that it was about the Union, or it was in my memory, I think it was written in the transcript, because a Member of the National Assembly could well be individualized enough without mentioning its name in such a way that it would be personally affected. That's why we're proposing. This will have an upbringing and deterrent effect on some MPs who abuse and direct insults to a certain MP. I hope you will accept this proposal, although the Commission has not accepted it, because I think it is at a good European level and is a good parliamentary practice, which we should follow in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u156	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 169 MPs: 85, against 73, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Re-vote please, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u157	Mr. Chairman, I'm proposing a re-vote. Colleague Slavcho Atanasov just failed to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u158	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. We're overreacting. Vote 172 MPs: 80 against 85, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 60 on the Commission report. Vote 184 MPs: 108, against 2, abstention 74. Article 60 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u159	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 58, which becomes art. 61. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 59, which becomes art. 62. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 60, which becomes art. 63. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 61, which becomes art. 64. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 62, which becomes Art. 65. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 63, which becomes Art. 66. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 64, which becomes Art. 67. Under art. 65 there is a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version of art. Art. 65, which becomes art. 68: Art. 68. (1) Before the vote, the President shall invite the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats. The voting time per article. 66, para. 2, p. 1 is up to 1 minute, but no less than 30 seconds. (2) No speeches shall be allowed from the announcement of the vote until completion. Article 66 shall be supported by the Commission and shall become art. 69. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 67, which becomes Art. 70. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 68, which becomes Art. 71. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 69, which becomes art. 72. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 70, which becomes art. 73. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 71, which becomes art. 74. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 72, which becomes Art. 75.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u160	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, my two sentences will be according to the text of art. 65 The proposal of the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. In fact, just a minute ago you saw what it was about, why is the proposal if the proposal does not pass the first vote, to be able to gather Members of Parliament from the coffee. I'm just curious, when they form the ministries, how will they collect them? It's a little far away in 60 seconds. [[Radio and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u162	- What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't either. I shall put to the vote Members from 61 to 75, including on the Commission's report. Vote 187 MPs: 157 against 11, abstention 19. Articles 61 to 75 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u163	"Chapter 8" "Introduction, discussion and adoption of bills and other acts of the National Assembly." The Commission supports the text of the draft name of Chapter Eight. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 73, which becomes Art. 76. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 74, which becomes Art. 77. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 75, which becomes Art. 78. There has been a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs supported by the Commission. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version for art. 76, which becomes Art. 79: Art. 79. (1) The bills together with the documents under art. 76, para. 1 and the report of the committee responsible to which they have been allocated shall be made available to the Members of the National Assembly no later than 24 hours before the beginning of the meeting in which they will be examined. The same period, if the National Assembly does not decide otherwise, shall also apply for the consideration of the bills for the second vote. (2) The Chair of the committee responsible shall require an opinion from the Council of Ministers or from the respective minister. The Council of Ministers or the relevant minister shall deliver an opinion within two weeks of its request. (3) Under bills governing employment and social security relations, the Chair of the committee responsible shall request an opinion from the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. (4) Under bills governing the rights of persons with disabilities, the chairman of the committee responsible requires an opinion from the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. (5) The President of the committee responsible shall, under bills relating to the judiciary, request an opinion from the Supreme Judicial Council. (6) Citizens and legal persons may submit written opinions on the bills. (7) The opinions under para. 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 shall be published on the website of the committee responsible on the website of the National Assembly. (8) The lack of opinions under para. 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 does not stop the discussion of the bill. (9) The report by the committee responsible for the first vote shall also include an assessment of the expected consequences of the implementation of the future law, including the financial law, as well as a summary of the opinions received and a summary opinion of the committee. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Article 77, which becomes Article 77. 80. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Article 78, which becomes Art. 81.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u164	Statements? I won't. I shall put the name of Chapter Eight to the vote, as well as Articles 76 to 81, including on the Commission report. Vote 184 MPs: 132, none, abstention 52. The name of Chapter 8 and Articles 76 to 81, including the Commission's report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u165	Proposal of Boychev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 79 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the word "tris" is replaced by "two." 2. Allinei 2 and 3 are out, al. 1 becomes a text of art. 79. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 79, which becomes Art. 82.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u166	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have proposed that the period of such a bill, which was rejected at first reading, should be shortened by one month in order to have the opportunity not after three months, but to be submitted again to the National Assembly in two months. We are doing so in view of the dynamic political situation in the country as well as internationally. I think that's enough time. Two months is enough for this bill to be up-to-date at the same time and to solve current public problems and, at the same time, to be modified. A sufficient period has been given to importers to change their motives. And yesterday I said, and today I repeat you know that legislation is always a step backwards after settling public relations. Why should three months be waited to re-submit almost the same bill modified in accordance with the Rules of Procedure?! I think our proposal is reasonable and should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u168	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have a brief reply to Mr Popov, as the will of the National Assembly was so because by voting it rejected this bill. I would say that if we approach relatively legally, we will see that in other legal constitutional systems there are more radical solutions and the delay is much longer. There is no reason to expect that within a short period of time such changes will have taken place in the public conditions that will change the will of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u170	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Kirilov, we want to maintain the norm in art. 79, para. 1 sentence first, namely the Law, which was rejected in the first vote, can be tabled and re-examined only after significant changes in its main positions. There's no reason for this to stay. But three months is a long enough period given the dynamic environment. I can give an example, although it is not about a separate bill, such as the problem with the fence at our southern border. Three months is a long time. I'm talking about a really dynamic situation from a political point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any other statements? I won't. I close the debates and put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 176 MPs: 63, against 88, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 82 on the Commission report. They voted 167 MPs: 111, against 1, abstention 55. Article 82 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u173	Proposal by Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 80, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In a sentence first, after the word "s', in its second use, a point shall be placed and the text by the end of the sentence shall be removed. 2. In the third sentence, after the word "tris', the words "works' are added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text of the draft and proposes the following version for art. Art. 80, which becomes Art. 83: Art. 83. (1) Members of the National Assembly may make written proposals for amendments and additions to the bill adopted at the first vote or the joint bill under art. 81, para 2 within 7 days of its adoption, respectively, from the provision of it to the Members of the National Assembly who argue. The proposals shall be made through the President of the National Assembly to the Chair of the Committee responsible and shall be entered in a public register of the National Assembly. By way of exception, the National Assembly may decide that this period shall be extended by a maximum of three weeks or reduced but not less than three days. (2) When submitting proposals under para. 1 in the case of bills relating to the introduction of requirements of European Union law or to a procedure initiated for non-compliance with obligations arising from European Union law, the Members of the National Assembly shall state the reasons for the adoption, objectives and expected results and shall apply an analysis of compliance with European Union law. On the proposals, the President of the Leading Party Commission requests an opinion from the Council of Ministers or from the relevant Minister for Foreign Affairs. (3) The draft of a second voting report shall be published on the website of the committee responsible on the website of the National Assembly within one day after the expiry of the term under para. 1. (4) On proposals submitted by MPs, the chairman of the committee responsible may request an opinion from the Council of Ministers or from the respective minister. (5) Within 14 days of the adoption of the bill by the committee responsible, it shall submit to the National Assembly a report containing: 1. The ones made in the term under para. 1 written proposals Members of the Parliament and the opinion of the Committee on them; 2. the proposals of the Committee on the Draft Discussions, including when it adopts such proposals on the occasion of a proposal made by some of its members during the meetings. The proposals of the Members of the National Assembly, with the exception of those, which relate to editorial or legal and technical corrections shall be reasoned. (6) The report under para. 5 shall be published immediately on the website of the committee responsible on the website of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u174	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm making an offer in art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 sentence first, after the.. Members of the National Dear Members of Parliament, this is about a proposal for a second reading. Argumentation and motives are sufficiently developed at first reading. In addition, the proposals for a second reading argue in the very discussion of the proposals. Here is Danail Kirilov's proposal: sentence one, the words..................................................................................................... to............................................... to.................................................................................................. How is this going to work?! That's why I'm making a clean editorial proposal. I think what you heard is resonant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u176	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I close the debates and put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Tribune by the National Representative Philip Popov in art. 80, para. 1, after the words "the Members of the National Assembly" shall be given the expression "the Members of the National Assembly." The sentence to end like this without that expression. Please vote. They voted 173 MPs: 62, against 90, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 172 MPs: 57 against 95, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 83 on the Commission report. Vote 172 MPs: 128 against 1, abstention 43. Article 83 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u177	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 81, which becomes Art. 84. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 82, which becomes Art. 85. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 83, which becomes Art. 86. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 84, which becomes Art. 87. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 85, which becomes art. 88. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 86, which becomes Art. 89. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 87, which becomes Art. 90. The Commission supports Daniel Kirilov's proposal. The Commission proposes to establish art. 91: Art. 91. At the decision of the National Assembly, adopted at the request of one tenth of the MPs or of a parliamentary group, or at its own initiative, the Prosecutor General shall submit to the National Assembly and other reports on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office on the enforcement of the law, the countering of crime and the realization of criminal policy. The discussion of the reports shall be carried out in accordance with art. Ninety. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 88, which becomes Art. 92. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 89, which becomes Art. 93. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 90, which becomes Art. 94.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u178	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote Articles 84 to 94 including, as art. 91 is a proposal from the Commission to create a new one with its corresponding content on the report. We are voting on Articles 84 to 94, including the Commission report. Vote 171 MPs: for 167, against none, abstention 4. Articles 84 to 94, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u179	"Chapter 9" Parliamentary Control. The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter 9a. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 91, which becomes Art. 95. Proposal by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 92. the following The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 92, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. a sentence second is created: the Plenipotentiary Meeting, within which parliamentary control is held, continues until the questions and questions to be answered are exhausted. 2 in the current sentence the sixth word.......................................................... is dropping............................................. is The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 92, which becomes Art. 96.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u180	Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u181	My fellow Members, the meaning of what we are proposing is far from the idea that when we understand the meaning or if we do not understand it, we will support it, but I am still trying to explain why we are doing all this. The point of the proposal to work until the questions asked in parliamentary control are exhausted is as follows. At the moment, each of us, when we were in opposition, I've had six to seven months of fun question or questioning. In general, the mechanisms are one thing: normal deposition mechanisms are initially used. From then on, there's a situation we all know. The agenda of parliamentary control includes a long list of invited ministers who cannot pass. Thus, it always turns out that, for example, one third or one second of the questions remain unanswered. In this situation, according to the Rules we have, it turns out that you can't really blame the minister because he was ready to come, but hasn't come, because the time for parliamentary control hasn't reached. This is the mechanism by which a response can be delayed five, six, seven months and this has happened repeatedly. Our desire to bring this point into place makes sense. This is how we try to discipline the order of parliamentary control in a way that does not happen. The answer is: the outcome of all this work depends immediately on the President. That is, when the President knows that we cannot complete parliamentary control before the entire agenda, which lies in the parliamentary control, he will simply divide it or make extraordinary parliamentary control. In this way, we will ensure that parliamentary control is carried out regularly and there will be no possibility of delaying questions and questions for months, which makes them untenable. Because in this way, a bunch of questions and questions are answered after months for which the answer does not really make sense anymore. I think that makes sense, and that is why I am addressing you with the idea that we could support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u182	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I join what my colleague Kutev said, paying attention to you in art. Reg. 91, para. 1 The following is clearly written: the MPs address to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or to the ministers questions of the.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. What will this current character be when the question is answered after half a year? This is clearly not an up-to-date character and is practically meaningless art. Reg. 91, para. 1 in his first sentence. With regard to our second proposal: in the current sentence, the sixth word.................................................................................................... 92. It states that there is a seven-day time limit for answering written questions, but there is no time limit for answering oral questions. I think we need to clear this incomplete, and that's why we made this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u184	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u185	Mr. President, honourable Members, the point of looking at the Rules is to improve it on the basis of the previous experience of the previous National Assembly. What we have done as a proposal is precisely helping to carry out a full parliamentary control. The colleagues mentioned some of the arguments, I kept two questions from the previous National Assembly, which I had asked to Minister Moskov in September. These are the scandalous cases with those vaccines, not just the Turkish ones, but then with the entire activity of There's a prosecutor's check on this case, he's out of his mind. I want to tell you that the mandate of the Forty-third National Assembly has been terminated, but the answer to these questions has not been answered. These are September, October, November, December, until 26 January "repeated or included in parliamentary control, but the time did not somehow reach them. This negates the meaning of the current parliamentary issue, especially in such scandalous cases, which concentrate public attention. With this amendment, we want to prevent, in substance, the most scandalous and important cases from being given the opportunity not to respond to this tribune, and these two examples, which I, Mr President, can show clearly, are a clear example of mismanaged parliamentary control. Please support this proposal. I think it will be complete for the work of the Forty-fourth National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u186	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. [[People's representative Pavel Shopov wants the floor.]] A line, Mr. Shopov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u187	No, for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u188	Mr. Ermenkov, Mr. Hamid and you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u189	Take turns.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u190	Mr. Ermenkov is giving up on you. To speak, the people representative Pavel Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u191	I do not wish to conduct myself in the manner of conduct, Mr President, I would recommend that you alternate the speakers from the various parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u192	I think your recommendation has been fulfilled since you're on the stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u193	I hope I didn't seem insolent in Mr. Ermenkov's eyes that I rearranged him and went out to the stand before him just so that I could plead that the different speakers would be alternated in order to make a more meaningful debate. On the matter of substance, this is also a line to all the speakers from the BSP so far. This is the pain of all MPs that very often, even more often in terms of opposition, ministers do not give their answers in time and questions become obsolete. "Attack" has been an opposition since 2005. I have not participated in a National Assembly and, believe me, I have suffered from this problem many times. It's logical, it's natural, it's understandable why ministers run away from answers. I have not participated in one National Assembly, but during the other National Assemblys I have been to, I have always thought about how to get the ministers to come here in due time and again, believe me, I have not found an answer. The Minister is not a criminal to bring him to justice, the judicial police, as is happening in the courtroom, in the Chamber, which is something else entirely, the givens are quite different. This proposal, which is currently being made by BSP, is untenable. It can't make the ministers just come. The ministers have jobs, they travel abroad, they are sick, and they are people. We can't arrest them and bring them in to answer. Give something else, think about it, because I still tell you, when I was in opposition, when countless of my questions I am one of the most upsetting questions MP at three national meetings, I have found no means and ways to do so. The responsibilities in life, in society, are a variety of judicial responsibility, moral responsibility. Here, the responsibility for not answering and for fleeing the ministers from the House is political and no other. We can't think of another, we can't hold them accountable, we can't punish them. Think of something else, colleagues from BSP, let's do it and I'd be grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u194	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines to his statement? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What was that expression: "O times, o mores! " You're right, Mr. Shopov, it's illogical, but at the same time it's unacceptable. It is unacceptable in a parliamentary republic where a minister to whom up-to-date questions are addressed is not to be present in the plenary to answer. You know very well that the Rules of Procedure have the power of law, and each minister should obey them and set an example of his conduct as part of the government's leadership, the Council of Ministers, to be in plenary and to answer up-to-date questions concerning a number of Bulgarian citizens concerning those people who ultimately pay the wages of that minister and thanks to them he is there. Indeed, the responsibility here is also political and it should also be given to the ministers and they should be able to come here in the Chamber. It's their duty. We should also put this in the Rules of Procedure as we have suggested. This thing may exist in the Rules and they are obliged by the Rules, which have the power of law, to come. Yes, we can't impose sanctions on them, we can't bring them in handcuffs, but, God forbid we bring the ministers in handcuffs in plenary to answer questions. We know that perhaps some next step will be this, but it is impossible to avoid political responsibility in this way, to flee from the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u196	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mr. Kirilov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Shopov, it is precisely because you are a parliamentarians with experience that I allow myself to make a reply, although I fully support the context of your exhibition. In my opinion, there is a way, but it concerns the integrity of the people's representative, as is his correct assessment and judgment. In other words, what is the people's representative looking for content, i.e. factology, case study, question study, or display? If it seeks content, the people's representative will put questions in writing, and within a short period of time will receive an answer, will he be aware of that, would it make sense to escalate on this subject? But if he's looking for continuous exposure, there's no stop here, there's no framework, and that's why the opposition offers us on Friday, if you want, and at 23.51 we'll be listening to ministers, because in practice that means the proposal in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u198	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u199	Thanks to the two replicators. Thank you for this, because they either repeated or took from me in other words what I'm talking about, which I plead. Yes, it is, Mr. Popov. There's no question, it's my thesis. My idea and my thought earlier in my speech was yes, it is, but your means do not change things. Your proposal is not effective. I am going to vote abstention because this is not a solution either. Obviously, in this National Assembly, we also find no way to overcome this problem. Responsibility remains in ministers who stall very often, who do not want to respond, who run away from the answers, but it is political and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u200	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. To speak, the people's representative Hamid Hamid Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I take the floor to make an editorial proposal. I fully accept Mr. Kutev's arguments that he has put forward here, but colleagues agree that very often parliamentary control has weeks in which it is 13-16 hours. The hypothesis, if it starts on Friday at 11:00, we have to leave early Saturday morning. I propose that, at the end of point 1 of the proposal, after the word, we record at the end of point 7.00. That's my suggestion, with these arguments, that we shouldn't keep a minister here until Saturday at 5:00 a.m. It's not very comfortable for them, not that we're not used to it, but it's not comfortable for them.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u202	A line? Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u203	Dear Mr Hamid, dear colleagues! It is clear that none of us imagine that we will keep the ministers in line at night first, because this is not rational, second, because that is not the purpose of the activity. What Mr. Kirilov said is not real either. He says: "You will issue a written question, he will answer a written answer. " - These questions, at least, I do not ask them for myself. Frankly, usually in most parts, we ask questions that we know the answers to. We don't ask them to understand them. We ask them to understand people. In this situation, your logic is not the same. It doesn't work. Neither do the logic. Let it go at night. We don't want to spend the night, do we?! There is an answer here, which I put at the very beginning, simply by seeing that more questions have gathered, an extraordinary meeting can be made on Monday and the hearing on these issues can be made on Monday is the point, and this is the President's decision. What you're saying at 5:00 or 7:00. I am absolutely in favour of this proposal, and I agree with that, and I am far from the idea that the President will schedule a meeting or put such an agenda for questions, because they are calculated. Each of us knows that about 30 questions, Mr. Chairman, I think they're going to a normal meeting. When you put in 50, it will take you until 5:00 and you will not put more than 50 questions in the sitting. When they're together, we'll have an emergency meeting. There's an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u204	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Any other lines? Mr. Hamid, would you like to do a douche bag? No. Here's Mr. Ermenkov for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u205	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think it is unnecessary to remind you that, in a parliamentary republic, one of the symbols of the parliamentary republic is parliamentary control over the executive power, something that is ours and an obligation to what we are elected to as MPs and to our constituents. Here I don't know why the notions of the People's Representative are confused. The MP is actually the voice of those who ask the question. We do not ask questions on our own initiative or on any own or personal grounds. We always try to ask those questions that have been asked to us by our constituents. These questions have their relevance. It is no coincidence that at the very beginning it is said that questions are being asked about current problems. You can't ask an up-to-date question and get a non-up-to-date answer after a while, ever. Moreover, in the current practice that exists in the National Assembly, if a minister starts answering up-to-date questions and happens to be on the schedule of up-to-date, but does not have the time in parliamentary control to answer all the questions that are addressed to him, and following the principle that has been written in the current new Draft Rules on the rotation of the ministers' answers, this minister will, somewhere in about five months, again have the order to answer parliamentary questions that are no longer up-to-date, long ago the answer has been received either by practice or by any coincidences, or it is not at all and will not be there. In this regard, indeed, one of the obligations that the President must have is to form the agenda of parliamentary control because it reaches a certain time. The three hours, in my opinion, are absolutely insufficient for all these questions to be done, unless the government is working in a wonderful state of mind, doing its job as people do, and there are no problems. Let us therefore make it possible to answer the questions every Friday as much as they are on the agenda by the President. It's up to him to do these things. Let's not put any restrictions on it. Therefore, I ask you to support the proposal of my fellow Members from the Parliamentary Group (BSP) for Bulgaria (BSP) because otherwise it is based on the logic of the Chair of the Commission, who has proposed these Rules, that there is no need for us to do oral questions at all then and we will ask them in writing and decide whether they will be broadcast on television or not. In fact, we'll hide parliamentary control permanently. If that's the point, tell us to know and remove oral questions then write only in writing. If there are going to be oral questions, let them be answered at a time that is reasonable, which answers the actuality of the question, and not, for example, October, ask yourself what is going on with the Sliven road Ichera and then somewhere in March next year to answer that a project has already been made. You do understand that there is nothing relevant in the answer to that question. Once again, I ask you to support this proposal, because parliamentary control is actually the emancipation of parliamentaryism in every country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u206	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Ermenkov, I very much like your new clean-up style, much more suited to you, the first, which is to admire it. With regard to parliamentary control, the following must also be clear. When there is a question, there must be not only an answer, but also a problem, where there is a problem, there must be some action on it. The answer itself does not cause action. If our goal is when we meet with our constituents to translate into practice, that is to solve their problems, then asking a question would have the purpose of more frustrating the executive power to solve the problem and, accordingly, to give publicity. These are both sides of one question. When there is a hypothesis that there are accumulated issues in a parliamentary control, this National Assembly in several configurations, at least in which I have been involved, the forty-two and forty-third Parliament, has been making urgent decisions, with which parliamentary control has begun, for example, since 9:00 a.m. on Friday, which in itself was intended to clear the accumulated issues. If we leave the hypothesis, let us not have a period within which, for example, questions can be asked or longer the period for clearing questions, this means that we must leave to the subjective factor that the MPs will not abuse it. I will ask you, if you can, with your hand on the heart, come out and say here: "Yes, I am here saying very clearly and I declare that there will be no MP who will abuse this. " It is clear to all of us that it is used until the ministers of parliamentary control themselves appear, it is largely a political commitment, it is also a moral commitment, even they will have the moral commitment to appear and respond. Once again I say to you, as many questions have accumulated, nothing prevents the leadership of the parliamentary group, of any parliamentary group, during the Presidential Council to state [[the President signals that time has run out]] Their wish to say: Let on Friday, in the program, parliamentary control begin at 9:00 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u208	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u209	Mr. Alexandrov, from what you said, I realized that the actuality of the question depends on the beginning of when parliamentary control will begin, not when it will end. Moreover, you know very well how the Presidential Council is taking the decisions on the agenda, on what to include and I highly doubt, based on the current situation and the way we are working and at this meeting, that some time the opposition voice will be heard about what agenda to be included in the National Assembly. Therefore, these regulations, which we are now adopting, must be our guiding thread on which to move towards a normal parliamentary life, which requires that the answers to the current issues be really up-to-date. There can be no up-to-date answers to questions that come in five or seven months. Therefore, I say again, let the President of the National Assembly, if we write down the text, that we must answer the questions up to their availability on the written agenda, answer just as much as the question is included. You know that every Thursday evening we are given exactly the list of those ministers who will answer the questions the next day. That list shall be in a manner consistent with that of being fulfilled. This basically means that we will know the program, we know how many questions there are, we know how many questions there are, we know what time it is for a question, for a question, and we will know exactly how long our work will be, but we have to do it. Otherwise, in what the President offers us as a list of questions of ministers who will answer if he somewhere in the middle breaks a formality that just hangs in the air. So our proposal is not for the endless conduct of parliamentary control, but for the creation of such an agenda for parliamentary control to be implemented and which corresponds to the questions, answers and the time limits laid down in the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u210	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote, first of all, the proposal made by Mr Hamid Hamid in point. 1 of the proposal made by the MPs Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs. So far, as the sentence ends, to add the expression after answers, but no later than 19:00 p.m., and so to finish the sentence already. This is a proposal from MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. Please vote. They voted 188 MPs: 82, against 43, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the very proposal made by the MPs Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs in its authentic form, as recorded in the Commission report, which does not support it. Vote 193 MPs: 86, against 94, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u211	We're pulling him out.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u212	Are you withdrawing him? Yeah. We are going to vote on the text of the name of Chapter 9 "Parliamentary control', Articles 95 and 96 of the Commission report. Vote 191 MPs: 124 against 5, abstention 62. The name of Chapter 9, Articles 95 and 96 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u213	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 93, which becomes Art. 97. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 94, which becomes Art. 98. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 95, which becomes Art. 99. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 96, which becomes Art. 100. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 97, which becomes Art. 101. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 98, which becomes Art. 102. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 99, which becomes art. 103. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 100, which becomes art. 104. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 101, which becomes Art. 105. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 102, which becomes Art. 106.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u214	Statements? I won't. I'm voting for 97 members...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u215	Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u216	Do you have a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u217	It's more like an editorial technical amendment. In the text of the project in art. 101, which becomes Art. 105, para. 4 after the word................................................................................................ Art. 101, Art. 103, read? 97 and 103.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u218	I shall put to the vote the proposal made in art. 101 by importer, which becomes 105 in the Commission report, refers to art. 102 in the project, para. 4 instead of Articles 101 and 103 to read Articles 97 and... So it's just art. 101 is actually changing. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: Article 101 shall be Please vote on this proposal first. Vote 187 MPs: 185, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are voting from 97 to 106, including on the Commission report, with the change that we have just made and adopted in art. 105. Vote 182 MPs: 180, none, abstention 2. Articles 97 to 106, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u219	A proposal from MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, which the Commission has supported. A proposal from MP Philip Popov, which the Commission does not support. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 103, para. The first sentence shall be inserted after the first sentence after the word "supplier', at the latest on the day following the reference to the question or questioning, and the words "supplier' shall be replaced by "supplier' within three working days. The Commission generally supports the text of the draft and proposes the following version for art. Art. 103, which becomes art. 107: Art. 107. (1) The Members of the National Assembly may register a total of two oral questions or questions for one plenary week. (2) A Member of the National Assembly may not ask a question or a question which has already been answered. (3) In cases where the questions and questions do not comply with the requirements of these Rules or are not addressed to a member of the Council of Ministers whose portfolio of management is the subject of the question or the question, the President shall inform the Member of the National Assembly of the non-compliance within three days. Within the same time limit, the notified Member of the National Assembly shall be entitled to challenge in writing the admissibility of the question or the inquiry. After consulting the Conference of Presidents on the contested eligibility, the President shall take a final decision notified to the national representative. In the case of a decision to accept a question or a question, the time limit for reply under art. 96, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1 shall be determined from the date of the final decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u220	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u221	Honourable President, honourable Members! Perhaps I should have waited, but I did not know whether Mr. Kirilov would motivate his proposal, namely, more than two questions and one question. But anyway, my statement is now problematic from this point of view that I do not know his motivation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u222	His is accepted, so rather you argue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u223	But I strongly disagree with that. I don't know why, by the way, you're going down this road, why you need this limitation anywhere less, enough to create a scandal at each of the points. It was the same with BNT, and we're doing the same thing right now - from three questions and questions to make them into two where it's called, it's obvious that we can't remove control. And why are we going so far as to create a problem anyway, that I don't understand it anymore? I do not believe that this in any way helps the work of the National Assembly, I do not think it makes it more transparent. I am convinced that this limits the number of questions and questions the total number will not make the rating of the National Assembly greater. I mean, in general, it's a step that, well, we're probably having some internal fights here, but you're not even stopping us, some kind of limitation, you're going to ask less. This looks like a kid's game, kicking in the back or something, I don't know, that's the logic of this thing. My suggestion is that you withdraw it because it is problematic, it is obviously a reduction of parliamentary control options, obviously this does not help democracy and the good name of the National Assembly, and in the end the result is that the questions will again be, it is clear, there will be questions, there will be stands, we will talk and there is no way to close, democratic is the system, it cannot close the opposition. I don't know. Those jokes seem a little overrated to me. I'd suggest you withdraw it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u224	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? For a statement - the People's Representative Hasan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I also propose that Mr. Kirilov withdraw this proposal because it does not solve any of the issues of parliamentary control. It is practically a matter of the MPs having the right to register two questions or two questions within a week. I know the arguments that you are going to say now, perhaps in the context of a speech or a reply, you will say that this text has existed since 2013 that there is an opportunity to ask written questions. Honourable Members, if you thus restrict the right of Members of the National Assembly to register current questions or questions, you shall not resolve any question at the outcome. Why am I saying this? Because if you postpone, for example, if these two questions or two questions are postponed for the next sitting, the next sitting may happen in such a way as to answer four and six up-to-date questions or questions. Do you thus optimize parliamentary control, improve parliamentary control, or leave the impression that you are restricting the right of Members of the National Assembly to ask up-to-date questions? In practice, what I am saying comes to the fore is that you are trying to limit the right of MPs to register current questions or questions. Once again, you are not solving any of the issues of optimising parliamentary control, because in the next sitting or in subsequent meetings, the minister may answer five or six questions in one sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u226	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u227	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ademov, I take a line just to stop this practice from referring to me as an importer. It is obvious that you know the arguments, it is obvious that you have reproduced them on a meaningful side, but you are misinterpreting them correctly. We had this debate long and long in the Rules of Procedure Committee. It is obvious that much of this argumentation will develop now and now. I ask my colleagues to comply with the following. This is not even a disciplinary measure. Here Mr. Ademov uses an expression that is really quite accurate: "It leaves the impression." You're using this. Yes, the reduction from 3 to 2 leaves the impression of some reduction, but the scope is precise, it includes the questions. More frequent practice is the MPs to ask up-to-date questions, more rarely questions are made. Let me say again, discipline the people's representative, let him have a preliminary vision of what he wants to achieve with the question or with the question of asking. Two questions or questions and questions are enough for a parliamentary week. It makes no sense, and these are units of MPs, if you look at the parliamentary archives, you will see that there are no more than three or four Members in each Parliament asking multiple questions. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Well, I'll take the invitation to run out of time. If I have to, I'll get to the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u228	Second line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u229	(BSP for Bulgaria): Thank you, Mr President. I'm making a line because my colleague may have missed: it is clearly and categorically written in art. 90, para. 1 that MPs are entitled to questions and questions to the Council of Ministers, which are required to answer. Indeed, this is not just about some technology, this is about the powers of every single MP. And in these powers we see that clearly and categorically, passing a line through the entire rules of the blitzcontrol, Channel 1, the Friday parliamentary control, as we get to this point, is to reduce these powers, to turn the National Assembly into a rubber seal. And this is not about disciplining the MP, it is about disciplining the Council of Ministers and its members to be here and to respond to them as they are written and included in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u230	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Ademov, for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u231	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to note that with the proposal tabled by the MPs from GERB, we need to raise the question of transparency about this media transparency, which we need to create an opportunity for the members of society to build an opinion on the value of the information. Because there are many sources of information and the government seems to rely on the possibility of manipulating this public opinion through other sources of information. I remind you that in connection with a campaign for media transparency, an examination has been carried out in Bulgaria and there are eight factors that influence this transparency, one of which is the accountability of executive power to citizens at all levels, is at the leading place. Why, however, are you limiting the possibility of asking questions and questions to the executive, ministers, deputy prime ministers and prime minister? Who will you hide from parliamentary control, which of the ministers proposed by the big or small partner? And I think that until now, according to the practice in previous national meetings and the work on the Rules of the National Assembly, we have no reason to believe that colleagues, representatives of the executive, broadcast by the Political Party GERB will hide. So the logic is that the little partner, the big three-headed little partner, will be hidden. [[GRUNTING IN GERB]] from parliamentary control. Why are the MPs of GERB bringing it in? Is that part of a deal, deal, backroom or settlement? [[GERB lines.]] Through the media, we witnessed a three-day, four-day dialogue. 21 pages of management program were created...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u232	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u233	...no goals, no specifics.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u234	What's the connection to the proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u235	What exactly was negotiated in these talks becomes clear from the proposals that are being made to limit the possibility of transparency and information about what the executive is doing. [[GERB lines.]] Is that how they twisted your hands? Or this, too? Colleagues, extremely arrogant, presumptuous and without hearing any of the opposition's arguments, you are mechanically voting the Rules, which are likely to put the purpose of putting the Bulgarian society to sleep. Where did the positions held by the President of the Political Party GERB Boyko Borisov go? By the way, why isn't he in the gym? Does it support these proposals that are being made to limit control over the executive power? Because you agreed that he would be the future prime minister. Does it support that there is no transparency? Or are they probably trying to extend the term of the future government? However, until now we know that Borisov 1 terminated the mandate early.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u236	What's the mandate got to do with it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u237	The Bulgarian people.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u238	What's the connection? What's the connection to the text we're discussing?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u239	In the framework of Borisov 2, the term of office was terminated early again? Now how much can we expect with your arrogance and suggestions 6 months or a year? [[Heckling]] You answer it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u240	Thank you. By the way, where's Mrs. Nino? [[Laughter at GERB.]] - What's the line? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal by MP Philip Popov, the Commission does not support it. Vote 186 MPs: 83 against 85, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 107 on the Commission report. Vote 186 MPs: 107 against 47 and abstention 32. Article 107 on the Commission report has been adopted. It's 11:36, we'll continue at 12.10. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u241	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. You have the floor, dear Mr. Kirilov. 104 on the Importer's Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, under art. 104 of the Project a proposal from the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: No. 104, para. 1 after Wednesday is added... or In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 104, para. 3 at the end is created a new sentence: "Parliamentary control under art. 104 shall not take place in the absence of the Prime Minister. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs......................................................................................... 104 is canceled. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: No. 104, para. 1 the words "first Wednesday" shall be replaced by "first Thursday" and "first Thursday" shall be replaced by "first Thursday." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall propose art. 104 drop.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u243	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, we have two proposals. With the first, we want to give alternative blitzcontrol to take place every first Wednesday or Thursday. This proposal is dictated by Wednesday's coincidence with the meetings of the Council of Ministers. Thus, the President of the National Assembly will have the opportunity under the Rules to agree with The Prime Minister's day for the blitzcontrol to take place. The next proposal, all your colleagues here are aware of why we want the blitzcontrol not to start in the absence of The Prime Minister. Colleagues, last year 2016 The Prime Minister is present only at two such controls. Blitzcontrol was damaged, parliament was neglected. Of course, one of the reasons we heard was: There is no way, there is an important meeting of the Council of Ministers. Okay, now we are giving the opportunity to have control on Thursday when there are no meetings of the Council of Ministers. Colleagues, I therefore ask you to support this proposal, all the more so that we have the reasonable doubt that the text is being removed not because of the Prime Minister's absence, but because of the new possible two Deputy Prime Ministers, because if it were only for Prime Minister, this proposal would not have been held in the Forty-third National Assembly. Someone's obviously trying to hide the new two deputy prime ministers from the other partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u245	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am taking a brief line to clarify and to present to the Chamber pure factology because we have argued in these circumstances. Prime Minister Boyko Borisov was under blitzcontrol in half of the cases in which there were That's nine cases. Also in so many cases he was present at the blitzcontrol and the previous prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u247	Thank you. Another line? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u248	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hamid, you are very significant! What do you mean, saying two deputy prime ministers? A statement on the future of the coalition government made it clear that there will be four deputy prime ministers. If you mean the small coalition partner, there are three chapters. Who's the wrong guy? Tell us what the information is so that we can know and make a reasonable and reasonable decision. Thank you. [[Laughter, excitement and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u249	Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Hamid, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kirilov, I explicitly said: from 2016 reference! Don't go on to the approach and to the old tale of how much water there is in the cucumber and talk about the entire period of the forty-third National Assembly. I have argued and have consulted myself that for 2016 the Prime Minister attended exactly twice "one February and one June." Make your reference, and you'll see I'm right. If I'm wrong, correct me, not quote for the entire National Assembly. Mr. Iankov, like you, I am informed by the media who will have how many deputy prime ministers. Whether it's two or three, does it matter?! This is obviously your coalition agreement. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u251	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. To speak, the People's Representative Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u252	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Regarding the proposal to drop the blitz-control, you, on the one hand, are talking about constructiveness, but you are practically imposing darkness! We've introduced the blitzcontrol, and you're shyly hiding the Prime Minister and his VPs. We introduced it as a form of control, of transparency, of publicity. Who are you hiding the Prime Minister and his deputies from the Bulgarians?! Or, when you are elected, they are a people, and now they should be unenlightened voters?! Yes, we all know that beering from television screens and cutting ribbons is one thing, but it is quite another to answer current, vicious questions, questions that do not flatter, but put to society the real problems.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u253	Why are you reading?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u254	You have changed the inscription that stands in front of the National Assembly, and from the Union makes the force, it will become for this government in.. Hiding is our motto, we are afraid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u255	Did Elena Yoncheva write it to you?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u256	You are turning consecutively and arrogantly the Forty-fourth National Assembly into a forty-fourth rubber seal. You had forty-first, you had forty-three rubber seals, now you have constructed forty-four! However, this structure is a match tower, and despite all your procedural attempts to kill parliamentaryism, to crush the opposition, you simply will not succeed! The wisest is the time, honourable MPs, because it reveals the value of everything. In the early days of this National Assembly you have revealed your value, and it is not worthy of respect and respect. What kind of patriots dispute the form of government of the state.. Parliamentary Republic? Because these are your proposals and your support. What will there is a political party.Volja is willing to change after giving up basic democratic values and parliamentary practices and collaborating with the ruling quite helpful and somehow technocratic exquisite. You are not governors, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, but only a ruling faction. [[GERB lines.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u257	Do you have any lines? I won't. For the next speech, the People's Representative Pavel Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u258	Dear colleagues, there seems to be a lot of drama going on. We are talking about darkness here, we are talking about an end to democracy in Bulgaria, it is over, we are dying, dictatorship is taking place, the years are almost returning to Comrade Todor Zhivkov. [[Radio.]] When we talk about such institutions, let's call them listed in our Rules and in our practice, we need to remember the story where they come from, when did they come from, who introduced them and why? There wasn't such a thing in all the years of transition. There is no dispute introduced by you, by BSP, and you are defending this practice because it is probably introduced by BSP. Everything BSP has put in place that it has proposed must, of course, be protected. Isn't that right? It entered the Forty-second National Assembly at the time when outside they literally blew up and blew up the state Protestants, on a proposal from one of your fellow parties, which is currently Ombudsman and which I will not quote by name, because it is not correct in plenary to quote the names of our colleagues absent from it. Why? For a little flirting with outside protesters who shouldn't have been flirted with, but needed radical action, which you didn't have the courage to conduct. So this flirtation was: let us show the Bulgarian people how democratic we are, what transparency we introduce and to crucify, if you will, and the Prime Minister, your Prime Minister, on a cross. It didn't matter to you to show some face to Democrats. And now you're moving on. What does this institute accomplish? Violation of the rhythm that takes place in the National Assembly: Monday day for work on the electoral districts, Tuesday we gather the parliamentary groups and every Wednesday the parliamentary activity begins. In practice, one Wednesday we lose for serious parliamentary activity. Because once a month, every Wednesday goes under the sign: everything here is built, ready, sharpened that there will come who the Prime Minister, who may be abroad, who, if he is abroad and cannot come, is accused of the blackest sins of hiding. That's what it was like with your Prime Minister back then. It's basically a posture and some play, flirting with the evil one, it's demagogy. Let's get back to the old good practice. Such a thing, so-called "blitz" was not in the Bulgarian Parliament. He couldn't take the time, couldn't handle the check. He wasn't, he wasn't, and it's not relevant now. Nothing more like information we'll get. It is a means highly propaganda, highly political, highly politicized and unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u259	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. First line. "The People's Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u260	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Shopov, I thank you for presenting the story with regard to the emergence of the so-called Blitzmanship. I take a line, however, to clarify the following: blitzcontrol in committees remains. In this ridiculous demonstration advertising form of the Oresharski government, we actually claim that the constructive element must remain, that is, the meeting of ministers and their responsibility to parliamentary committees, because you know that the philosophy and logic of the Rules is that the main control is carried out by sectors and by parliamentary committees. So this institute is maintained and the ministers in dynamic order will contact and give information to the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u261	When is the Prime Minister coming?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u262	Here you go, Mr. Kutev for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u263	In a separate institution, a hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u264	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Shopov, it is not true that the blitzcontrol did not stand the time check, it did not stand your entry into the government. The fact that you fell into the government is the end of the blitzcontrol, because GERB were already in the government, but they did not dare to do so. They didn't dare, I think, for two reasons. First of all, that they were not aware how boss Boyko Borisov was of blitzcontrol. When he had to go out a few times, they got up. And now this is the result. And the second factor that defines these things is your participation and support, because at the moment, if the so-called patriots who are always doing some sort of opposition [[SIGHS]] because you can't play anything but opposition and opposition, there's no way you can play the positive role right now. Another attempt to make yourself an opposition, supporting an apparently undemocratic solution, you cannot play. In addition, the BSP does not have much to do with goat control, as far as parliamentary control of this kind is available in at least 5-6 countries of Europe. "England, Germany, Denmark, Greece, Hungary, Ireland tells me from here. So we didn't introduce it, it's parliamentary practice. And it is a parliamentary practice that is useful. Just because you are going to hide this parliamentary practice, first of all, does not mean that it will bring positives to the National Assembly, because this is what we are always talking about. Is parliamentaryism rising? No. And I will use it throughout the term as long as you are in power to remind you when we take into account another drop in confidence in the National Assembly and the President personally, I will remind you today when you voted. Because now you're voting, and there I hear lines for me. It's not me. You're taking away already conquered rights and opportunities. And in the social sphere, we talked, with Mr. Ademov just now, and in parliamentaryism it is the same when you once...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u265	The weather, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u266	I'll finish now, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u267	You were supposed to be done five seconds ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u268	Once you've achieved some opportunities, then you don't take them away.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u269	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Veselinov. Third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u270	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Shopov, I disagree with you on several points. First of all, the pseudo-socialists who formed the Oresharski government were in it a junior partner, so in fact their main, leading partner DPS also has serious merit for this new supposed institution. At the same time, let us not forget that they made this blitzcontrol not to crucify their Prime Minister, but to make him at least a little popular. They tried to advertise him from the National Assembly stands, which, unfortunately, did not work out because he wasn't good for advertising. He didn't have anything positive to show in it. In general, the empty form they invented was empty in the previous term, as you rightly noted. But perhaps you should have noted that no meaningful question during the entire previous term came from the left side of the Chamber. All along questions were asked, in fact top topics from the newspapers, and colleagues on the left had become the role of journalists who need to promote certain problems, already known to the public. In addition, as a recommendation to you, you should note that the form for hearing ministers remains for the Prime Minister. In fact, this is the traditional and normal form in which a parliament can work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u271	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Mr. Shopov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u272	Mr. Kutev, you said five or six countries in Europe. There are almost 40 countries in Europe, that is, there is no such thing in the other 34. [[Reply from the National Representative Anton Kutev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u273	Please don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u274	This was mentioned because of Boyko Borisov not because of Boyko Borisov we are currently making the rules. We're doing it for this National Assembly. Every rule is about how things are gonna be better. I think that you should be grateful that the blitzcontrol is being removed because it always coincides with the first Wednesday, which is the day for the opposition when you had the right to do so under art. 37, was it 38...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u275	Art. 50, para. 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u276	So from this point of view, there's always no time. Often, issues raised by the opposition and included on the agenda on opposition proposals and draft decisions could not pass, as we are waiting for the twelfth hour of the day for the Prime Minister to come to answer the questions. If we talk about pragmatism, who benefits what and who benefits more, this is the benefit of the opposition, because it remains the whole day, full. Isn't that right, Mrs. Yankova? I see you agree. The whole first day of the month remains for the proposals submitted by the opposition. Mr. Kutev, stop this speculation, you're supposed to be some... I am aware that you are social liberals. If it's flattering for you, accept it, but I don't think I'm at least insulting you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u277	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Mr. Kutev? I won't, okay. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Dear Mr. President, yesterday at the meeting several times, and quite rightly, you made a remark to a replicating statement that the reply is a statement of disagreement with the Member of the National Assembly. Well, yes, the detail is that the speaker and replicator were from the opposition. Today, however, you did not interrupt a moment ago and did not comment on two of the three replicators who did not actually replicate, but further developed the thesis of the speaker. You're not going to make me regret supporting you to be elected to this position, are you? Be President of the entire National Assembly, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u279	If you mean Mr. Veselinov, he expressed his disagreement. I don't want to repeat what you said because it was about your group, actually. He disagreed with what Mr. Shopov said, so let's be correct. And whether you regret it or not, that's your judgment. It's Mr. Mareshki's next speech. We're taking turns. Then there's Mr. Zhelyo Boychev, then Mr. Ibryamov and Dora Yankova. These are for now.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u280	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I can't help but be pleased that just one week after the beginning of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, you are already beginning to be interested in what the will of the Political Party is. Before I say it very briefly, because for us one of the main words is pragmatism, as we state it constantly, I will say what it is not. It is not for example to do the the theft of the century in Plovdiv, to behave rudely, to call, not to observe the regulations and to occupy the costly time of the National Assembly with empty speaking. The will of the Parliamentary Group is integrity, pragmatism and patriotism, as you can see. In this regard, using one word of pragmatism, I will tell you why we did not support such control. We are, in principle, for a very broad, comprehensive parliamentary control over the institutions and the government, but not in such a way that nothing is actually being done, but simply using parliamentary time to enable someone, through the question that is supposedly asking on behalf of the people, to insert their thesis. In this sense, we support basically the pragmatic question in writing, which remains in the archives, is sent for an answer to the institution concerned and the answer also remains on paper. It can be published in all the media, both in party, in general, and in your party structures to become known to all our supporters, to those who sent us to parliament. If you are impressed, we are short and small because of the fact that another party mate will come out and repeat the supporting points of what the previous one has said, as they repeat several times to the same, they do not become more faithful. Therefore, I call you once again, first of all, to pragmatism, integrity, patriotism. Let us make sure that there is an effect on the work of the National Assembly, not to fill the time with empty speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u281	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Boychev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u282	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Glauchev, this time I will address you. A week ago, when you were elected, you approached the MPs. I will recall a few sentences from your speech then: It is crucial that Parliament continue to work openly and transparently, which will allow citizens to participate closely in the decision-making process. You shared a thought to your favorite politician, statesman and financier Atanas Burov that there is deep faith in democracy, national democracy and in parliamentaryism. I ask Mr. Glauchev: what of all that we have done with the amendments to the Rules so far is due to your conviction and faith in parliamentaryism, democracy and the transparent work of the Bulgarian Parliament? Step by step, systemically, little by little You have continuously cut each of these conquests into the previous Rules of Work of the Assembly to get to this blitzcontrol. One of the greatest achievements of democracy is precisely the ability to control the activities of the executive. In essence, you will take this right today. If colleagues from GERB have made a decision today they have authorized the Prime Minister to be Boyko Borisov and have voted him this trust, I ask them: what are they worried about Mr. Borisov coming out of this platform to give an answer to the current questions? As far as I understand from this coalition agreement, there will also be several deputy prime ministers who will most likely be part of the leaders of the United patriots, who are also established parliamentarians. What concern does it have for these deputy prime ministers to come out here, from this tribune, and give an answer to the executive's activities?! I understand that you have set a great goal and a great desire for at least once to have a four-year term. I want to assure you that you have not understood the lessons of your past mistakes. This time, which you have chosen, is the fastest way to an early termination of another term by you. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u283	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Shopov. Second line, Mr. Kirilov, and third line, Mr. Alexander Nenkov. As they move, Mr. Boychev, you delegate me rights that I don't have. I'm the first among equals. The plenary hall takes the decisions in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u284	Mr. Boychev, may I ask you in this line: was that a statement or a pass riddle? [[Radio and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u285	Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u286	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Boychev, I, too, was surprised by your speech - many suggestions, many broadcasts, many messages, dramatism in terms of parliamentaryism, however, there was nothing objective. The most objective is the claim that Boyko Borisov as Prime Minister was hiding, or planning to hide from such control. You know that even before a request for a hearing was submitted, when the parliamentary towers began to discuss the topic, Boyko Borisov as Prime Minister always came first to Parliament to introduce him, to give explanations and to have parliamentary control accordingly. Why is what you call a control tool not any instrument for parliamentary control? Look at the text of para. 1: The questions can only concern the common policy. Compare them to the request for a hearing. In it you need to define exactly the questions in order to get specific answers. So this blitzcontrol was just a conversation, a talk about the most general political issues. The Institute, which guarantees control of the Prime Minister, is the hearing as well as the parliamentary question, as well as the parliamentary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u287	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Third line, Mr. Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u288	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Boychev, two days you talk about democracy, about good practices, about how you kept the good parliamentary ones, and you didn't actually respond to the biggest test when you were given. Now your speech would not have been to Mr. Glauchev, but would have been to Mrs. Cornelia Ninova, because the practice in the developed democracies is exactly such in the European Parliament until recently the President of Parliament was one of the Socialists, President of the European Commission from the EPP. These are good practices. You saw what you did to Minister Denitsa Zlateva. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You withdrew it for political reasons. Not because he can't or won't, but because that way... [[Reply from the National Representative Anton Kutev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u289	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u290	Mr. Kutev, you talk a lot about morality, but when you call from there, it kind of doesn't suit you, let me tell you. You're talking one thing in the stands, otherwise it's something else. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] As far as this blitz control is concerned. We all know that he had become exactly an attempt at some political dividends. And in what way? What Danny Kirilov said is very right, because the questions that are being asked at the blitzcontrol... [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Look, the blitzcontrol is going out on the stand and you are asking the Prime Minister on issues of a common nature, which can be answered in the same general way, and this has been repeated in practice in the previous and previous National Assembly. Quite different is parliamentary control when you have a pre-set topic to answer specifically. The truth is, you're saying some things about a forceful opposition, and I've listened here. Two weeks of scary demagogy developing from this tribune. I didn't mean to speak up and replicate you, but you're overreacting. If you wanted so much good practice to be respected, Mrs Cornelia Nino would be behind me right now and I would say: These are good practices, not what you go out to talk about, and then by your actions to disprove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u291	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Any other lines? I won't, because three were made. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u292	Thank you. Dear Mr. Kirilov, I do not share your understanding, as we believe that the blitzcontrol was a conquest for Bulgarian parliamentaryism. You know that there is this type of practice in many European parliaments. Two people's meetings worked, and they felt that this was a good procedure in one we were responsible for the management, in the other you. Therefore, I do not understand your desire at the moment to essentially limit the possibility for the Prime Minister to respond to the Bulgarian citizens every Wednesday. The dynamics of the political life in which we have to work are prominent. In my opinion, there is a constant need for this type of control, even more so, that you also give the opposition the opportunity to directly control the work of the executive. Mr. Nenkov, once again we were convinced that we had rightly diverted Mrs. Ninova's invitation not to be president of this National Assembly. With this type of majority, with what we see as actions, as an approach, she could not cope with this task to really work for a parliament that would meet the expectations of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u293	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. For a statement there is the popular representative Jayhan Ibryamov. After him, the people representative Dora Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u294	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Has anyone in this room read Socrates lately? [[Noise, lines and excitement.]] That's what the creator of political ethics said. [[Noise and lines.]] The blitzcontrol was introduced during the management of the Oresharski cabinet. The idea is to ask current questions to the executive after the Council of Ministers. This is according to the example of the English Parliament, one of the oldest in Europe. Immediately after the meeting, this is the maximum accountability of the executive for the decisions taken to the representatives of the voters. Liquidation creates a lot of difficulties in clarifying the decisions taken by the relevant executive and to have direct accountability, as I said, about my activities to the voters' representatives. The cancellation of the blitzcontrol essentially liquidated a democratic control over the executive power. As democrats and liberals, we cannot support such an action. We are servants of the people, not executives, colleagues. We have promised the voters maximum transparency and we will abide by it by strongly opposing the abolition of this transparency in government. I would like to remind you that the opaqueness of decisions raises serious doubts about corruption. I ask a question to the future rulers: do they have such doubts, or do they really intend to fight corruption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u295	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. - What's the line? Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm very tempted to see you regret voting for me again. You quoted Socrates beautifully, but the opposite is not true of what Socrates said.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u296	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to note that our constituents are absent from the debate. We have been talking here all day about how the people's representative uses his right to blitzcontrol to ask questions, whether he is abusing it and if he is abusing it, how to limit that right to him. Personally, I'm bored of hearing about pragmatism, for example, of Mr. Mareshki. I'm bored...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u297	The line is for Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u298	I'm bored to hear about their cohesive group, but his constituents have sent him here for this purpose. And my constituents have sent me here in order to ask and carry the answers to them. You're limiting that right to me. Let me justify myself before you, Yuvigius Chairman, take away my word again, because last time I couldn't develop my thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u299	Do you know what you're in the stands for?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u300	You have no right...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u301	Do you know what you're in the stands for? For a line! A line to Mr. Ibryamov. If you'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u302	I want to develop it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u303	Do you want to develop a line or a statement? So I ask you, do you know what you're in the stands for?! [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] Get out there and make a statement. [[The President turns off the microphone. People's representative sits in his seat.]] Mr. Ibryamov, do you consider this a line to make a duplicate? [[Radio and laughter in the hall.]] Mr. Ibryamov, will you take advantage of your right to dodge? No. Mrs. Dora Yankova for speaking. Colleagues [[turns to Members of the National Assembly of BSP for Bulgaria.]] , help colleagues who are...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u304	And you can help them a little.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u305	I mean it very well. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, if we take Parliament and parliamentaryism seriously, there is no dispute that parliamentary control is one of the main functions of the National Assembly. I hope that the future ruling coalition knows that the next government will draw its legitimacy from Parliament's trust. In this sense, the government also functions under the constant control of parliament. In an effort to streamline the activities of the National Assembly, yes, a new procedure was introduced on 1 September 2013 to ask current questions to the leadership of the Council of Ministers. She became a German model. I hope everyone here in this Chamber, who is prepared as parliamentarians, knows that the idol of the right, especially of GERB, Mrs Merkel, enters with the whole government at the beginning of each meeting and answers at least 20 questions orally. This is done at least 60 times a year in the German Parliament. I hope you're not saying that this is a bad practice for German Parliament and parliamentaryism. I personally expected you as people more conservative and more right-wing to further develop blitzcontrol as a modern form of control. Turns out you're running away from this. Now, fellow Members, I will tell you what has happened to the entire instrument of parliamentary control so far. We insisted that within a month the actuality of parliamentary control should sound. You rejected that. That is, no matter how up-to-date the issue is in society, under the control of any MP, we know the parliamentary catch you will reject it. Secondly, we insisted on more democracy in control. You've narrowed it down to one question, one control, to two. You sent control to BNT 2. Now you're rejecting the blitzcontrol. By wanting to hide or pretend to be conservatives, or debate the lack of time, or with what was like a bad practice, you are not really doing a good service to the future Bulgarian government. Here we are not doing a good service to Parliament and parliamentaryism. I personally know in the building next door there are already published textbooks where it is written literally: The researchers and observers of parliamentaryism. This new form is in place and they expect it to be developed. Today we will tell all law students, all legalists who have hope and faith in parliament that we are not bearers of these modern forms of parliament and parliamentaryism. It's a pity about our parliament, it's a pity about your understanding and your view. Since I respect Mr. Daniel Kirilov, Mr. Kirilov, withdraw this proposal. Withdraw it and let's make a new form. On Thursday comes the whole government. Learn from Mrs Merkel the whole government for an hour to ask him 20 questions and we will release Friday for work. It's gonna be a job all Friday. Get out of the way, don't worry. We are the bearers of responsibility to the voters. Be you at the level of contemporary parliamentaryism. [[Applause in the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u307	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In order to justify the procedure I will be doing in a moment, I will say why I voted in the Temporary Commission for dropping this opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u309	Please give the procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u310	But it's only gonna be 30 seconds. [[Voices from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I've been watching for two years what's going on here. This procedure meant that the Prime Minister would come, in two minutes to explain and 58 minutes to brag. If anyone now thinks that blitz control will become blitz, that won't happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u311	Please, Mr. Dimitrov, the procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u312	I voted to take away the opportunity and at least one Wednesday to work calmly instead of giving the Prime Minister the opportunity to advertise, which is why I ask that we stop the speeches and move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u313	Is there such a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u314	A reverse opinion? Welcome back to your position, Mr. Kutev, since you signed up for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u315	I signed up for a statement, but I'm not the only one. I'm guessing there are other colleagues. Okay, we're shutting down control, so why do we have to stop the debate on it? I don't see the point. This is a serious part of our conversation. I don't think we should stop this debate right now. I say we move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u316	This will show the vote. The point of this procedure is when they sign up, but when they don't sign up, the procedure is meaningless. There's nothing I can do but put her to the vote. We are voting on the proposed procedure by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov for the termination of the debates on this article. Vote 188 MPs: 107 against 81 abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 196 MPs: 86 against 97 abstentions 13. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal of the MP Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 193 MPs: 84, against 97, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. Vote 196 MPs: 113, against 83, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Negative vote on the MPs Anton Kutev, Christian Vigenin and Tasco Ermenkov. Three negative votes. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u317	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! [[Heckling]] When I couldn't make a statement, I'm entitled to a negative vote. [[Noise and lines.]] I see your colleagues are excited about it. If I'd made a statement, I'd be doing a negative vote, so whatever. I want us to understand what we're doing right now. Is it becoming more democratic and better, the Rules that we are currently making with these few changes that we have already made? I don't think so. Several times, we have already systematically restricted rights and opportunities so far. Why are we doing this? I think we're doing this out of pure guerrilla, because right now we've decided that this is how we're gonna be comfortable at the station. Is this the right thing to do? Honestly, I can't swear right now that when BSP was in power and we had a majority, we didn't do the same thing. However, I can swear that this has never been useful for us or for the citizens outside. It probably wasn't good for the government either. So I want to make it clear that when some of our colleagues are old here and I may have said this before them, but the others haven't heard it and it's good to be aware that we're coming in here, we're not comparing ourselves to the man next to us. The guy next to us, though in this environment, may have stumbled into it by accident. We go outside, behind this wall, and we look at the portraits of those people there, starting from Antim I, passing through Petko Karavelov, Stambolov and everyone else. We must compare ourselves with them if we want our stay in this National Assembly to make sense. I am convinced that if all of us in our votes were to compare ourselves to them and not to our comrade, this vote would not be so.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u318	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. People's representative Christian Vigenin for the second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u319	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, unfortunately, with this vote and with all our work on the Rules we are going towards the development of parliamentaryism in Bulgaria, which is not good at all. Even today, I was surprised when patriots set Turkey as an example. I am afraid that you yourself do not realize how such restrictions shift the centre of gravity towards the executive authority, denigrate the National Assembly, deprive not only the opposition, but also yourself as MPs, I do not know why you are doing this, from the possibility of controlling the prime minister and deputy prime ministers. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the possibility of blitzcontrol was not so much for ourselves, not for the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers, but for Bulgarian citizens to hear what is happening in the country and what the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers are doing to resolve these current issues. Of course, that's the bigger question. The younger one, however, who I fear is also part of your motivation for this decision, we saw in the previous term how the prime minister systematically avoided the presence of this blitzcontrol. We saw deputy prime ministers coming here, mumbling, and they didn't know why they had come, which obviously showed a lack of knowledge of the current processes in the country and couldn't answer any specific questions in a meaningful way. It's okay to keep them now, I understand. But don't overdo it, because in the end this whole thing will come back on you. I'm sorry you made that decision. I address the President of the National Assembly. Your predecessor did her best to stop the current questions to Prime Minister Borisov. Now that you have deprived us of the opportunity to control it in any way whatsoever, I ask you to be attached enough to democracy so that our questions to the Prime Minister may not be stopped, and you can make sure that he answers them in Friday's control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u320	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, third negative vote, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u321	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will not repeat what my colleagues said before me in the negative vote. I'm completely solidarity with them. However, I would like to add two more shades. First, to the technocrats. Colleagues, with the protection of the herbal control, we protected you because in order to challenge a hearing of the Prime Minister in the Chamber or whatever the hearing was, you need 48 votes. You don't have them. If there was blitzcontrol, you could use it exactly to ask the questions that excite you and your constituents. It is precisely because of the limitation of your rights that I voted against because of the BSP we can always make our hearings. We have the opportunity to ask for a hearing whenever we want to, because we have more than 48 votes. Colleagues from GERB, you made a big mistake. Instead of once a month to spare the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister to listen to them here, you decided to hide them, which is why you put them at the greater risk of responding to hearings, of participating in hearings with all the arguments we will have about their policy. Last time, colleagues, I'm so sorry! Mr. Stefan Danailov and I discussed this with you. We were deprived of the opportunity at least once a month to face the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria here in the Chamber. Now we'll only see him at the swearing, and we probably won't have any chance of seeing him after that, because you'll have hidden him. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u322	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Before we proceed with the next members of the Project, we have missed two members. There are no suggestions on them. Since there have been such heated debates since then, this has happened. You can refer to: these are art. 17 under the Project, which becomes art. 18 and is on page 14 and 15; Article 26, which becomes art. 28 and is on page 28. 19. I suggest we vote them out. We are voting on Articles 18 and 28 on the Commission report. There were no debates on them. Vote 169 MPs: 146 against 1, abstention 22. Articles 18 and 28 on the Commission report have been adopted. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u323	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 105, which becomes Art. 108. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 106, which becomes art. 109. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Article 107 is replaced by the following: 110. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 108, which becomes art. 111. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 109, which becomes Art. 112.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u324	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. We are voting from 108 to 112, including on the Commission report. Vote 164 MPs: 154 against 2, abstention 8. Articles 108 to 112, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u325	Chapter 10 of Parliamentary hearings, surveys and polls. The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter 10a. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 110, which becomes Art. 110. 113. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 110a, which becomes art. 114. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Article 111, which shall become Article 111. 115. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Article 112, which shall become Article 112. 116. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 113, which becomes Art. 117.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u326	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. We vote on the name of Chapter 10a, as well as Articles 113 to 117, including on the Commission report. Vote 156 MPs: 147, against none, abstentioned 9. The name of Chapter 10a and Articles 113 to 117, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u327	"Chapter 11, Parliamentary Monitoring and Control on European Union Issues." The Commission shall support the text of the draft name of Chapter 11. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 114, which becomes Art. 118. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 115, which becomes art. 119. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 116, which becomes Art. 120. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 117, which becomes Art. 121. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 118, which becomes art. 122. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 119, which becomes Art. 123. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 120, which becomes art. 124. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 121, which becomes Art. 125. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 122, which becomes Art. 126. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Article 123, which becomes Art. 127. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 124, which becomes Art. 128. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 125, which becomes art. 129.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u328	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I shall put the name of Chapter 11 to the vote, as well as Articles 118 to 129, including on the Commission report. Vote 148 MPs: 142, none, abstention 6. The name of Chapter 11 and Articles 118 to 129, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u329	"Chapters 12 and 12 of the National Assembly. " The Commission shall support the text of the draft name of Chapter twelfth. "Section I......................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the draft name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Article 126, which becomes Art. 130. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 127, which becomes Art. 131. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 128, which becomes art. 132. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 129, which becomes Art. 133. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 130, which becomes Art. 134. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 131, which becomes Art. 135. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 132, which becomes Art. 136. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 133, which becomes Art. 137. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 134, which becomes art. 138. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 135, which becomes art. 139. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 136, which becomes art. 140. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 137, which becomes Art. 141. Section II "Ethical Codes of Conduct." The Commission shall support the text of the draft for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 138, which becomes Art. 142. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 139, which becomes art. 143. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 140, which becomes Art. 144. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 141, which becomes Art. 145. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 142, which becomes Art. 146. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 143, which becomes Art. 147. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 144, which becomes Art. 148. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 145, which becomes art. 149. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 145a, which becomes art. 150. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 146, which becomes Art. 151. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 147, which becomes Art. 152. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 148, which becomes art. 153. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 148a, which becomes art. 154. Section III.. Parliamentary The Commission shall support the text of the draft name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 149, which becomes art. 155. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 150, which becomes art. 156. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 151, which becomes Art. 157. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 152, which becomes Art. 158. The Commission shall support the project test for art. Art. 153, which becomes Art. 159. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 154, which becomes Art. 160. Dear Mr. Chairman, I am making an editorial statement here that the reference that refers to art. 155, actually, should refer to art. 156. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 155, which becomes Art. 161. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Article 156, which becomes Art. 162. And here, Mr. Chairman, in para. 2 I am proposing an editorial clarification of the reference, which points to art. Article 155, in fact, should be Article 155. 161. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 157, which becomes art. 163. Here I am making an editorial proposal for a correction regarding the reference...................................................................................................... Article 155 shall be read. 161. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 158, which becomes art. 164.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u330	Thank you. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I put to the vote the name of Chapter twelfth; the name of Section I "Articles 130 to 141 inclusive; the name of Section II "Articles 142 to 154 inclusive; the name of Section III and Articles 155 to 164 inclusive, with the clarification made by the Parliamentary Tribune by the National Representative Danail Kirilov. Vote 177 MPs: 166, no objection, abstention 11. The names of Chapter twelfth, Section I, II and III, as well as Articles 130 to 164, including on the Commission report, together with the particulars made by the parliamentary platform, have been adopted. You have the floor for a declaration, Mrs. Ninova. On behalf of the BSP Parliamentary Group for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u331	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I use the declaration procedure on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. The particular occasion is our conversation today....................................................................................................... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u332	Please, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u333	...to seek national agreement on important topics...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u334	I hope it's not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u335	... as well as the accusations that the BSP has not accepted proposals for the Chairmanship of the National Assembly for participation with personal participation of our representatives in Mr. Borisov's office. The blitzcontrol thing, of course, is a specific case. I will not concern him, because I know the Rules of Procedure, but this issue gives rise to several other much more serious and larger ones - the first one is for the purpose of politics and your reference to good practices for major coalitions in Europe. Yes, there were such, colleagues, and we all saw what they led to the birth of populist and nationalist parties because the big coalitions destroyed the system parties, destroyed traditional politics, destroyed ideological differences and principled disputes between left and right. The second issue that arose from this discussion is about political representation. You lead many people over 1 million. We represent nearly 1 million people here and we do not speak for ourselves and personal quality here, and on their behalf we are sent here. [[GERB lines.]] When you constantly suggest that BSP is destructive because it does not want to participate in any form of general government, did you ask these people whose votes you represent here whether they agree with this? In fact, you recently asked your parents, and they said they didn't agree. Why, then, are you constantly suggesting destructiveness by the BSP, which did not wish to participate in general government, when your constituents who sent you here and on whose behalf you speak do not want it? Can you explain to us how by March 25th you face your faces in front of some people and tell them that BSP is an anti-European party and on March 27th you tell them that the only way to save the European Presidency is for Denitsa Zlateva from BSP to stay in charge of this post. [[Noise and lines from GERB: "Eeeee! "]] I don't get the common sense between these two claims, nor the catharsis you've experienced overnight.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u336	Order, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u337	How come by March 25 you are talking to those people who like you that BSP will turn the country back years and at 27 you are offering BSP the highest position in the parliamentary republic? Do you have any explanations for this catharsis? We do. You want the legitimization of your future decisions and actions that we do not agree with and we will not become you To what you offer, you call it a good practice. Yeah, it's practice, but it's not good. This is the practice of the political class, the status quo and the transition in Bulgaria for all 27 years. Until the election, we're all against each other in the name of the people, after the elections, we're all together for the brat, but against the people. We don't accept that. We want change. We want in this policy, besides power, money and cedar, to have principles, rules and morals. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] For this we will put an end to these processes in Bulgarian political life. When we promise something to the people, and they will have us in opposition, we will remain in opposition, but we will not give up, because something else important is happening today, and there must be power and opposition in a democratic state. We hold on to these principles. Here, a coalition management agreement has been reached today. You are looking on topics, even in this agreement, national agreement. We welcome the growth of Attack, of the Patriotic Front and of NFSB today Joint Patriots, until the bringing out of Euro-Atlantic values as an absolute priority for Bulgaria, as well as our membership in the European Union and NATO. You have our support for this. We welcome putting the most important place in this agreement of the Presidency of Bulgaria of the Council of the European Union. But to be clear, and here it is already about the democratic state, about the responsibility to make it clear that in this coalition, as signed, decisions are made in consensus. That is, Bulgarian citizens, from now on the political responsibility for what will happen in the country is carried by Boyko Borisov, Valeri Simeonov, Krasimir Karakachanov and Volen Siderov. This is what happens in the democratic state. It's the management, but it's also the responsibility. If you are debilitating from now on, if you take a new loan, if you do not feel secure in the street and in your homes, to know and to be in principle who is politically responsible for it. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u338	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u339	Thirdly, from now on, let's say that this coalition, as you have signed it, is betting risks, betting mine, betting instability on Bulgaria. Why? Because of the t. 9 you have recorded that, despite the agreement between you, each party is free outside this agreement to defend different policies and to seek support for them in this House. Does this remind the more experienced colleagues of anything? It reminds us of the coalition GERB. Some things we're together for, but others will be looking for floating majorities, buying votes inside the room and providing support. [[Voices from GERB and OP: "Eee! "]] To know from now on, the responsibility is there. But this ensures instability, guarantees floating majorities and unprincipled agreements in this House. Well, we don't want to be a part of that, and you won't suggest that it's destabilization by BSP. It's a principle, it's rules, and it's moral. We are looking forward to two topics to see these floating majorities - an increase in pensions and incomes, a referendum and a majority vote. This will be the test for your agreement, which you declare as a guarantor of stability, and we see as a risk of instability for Bulgaria. That is also the last reason why we do not agree in any way to participate with you in this agreement. We remain an alternative and continue our path to change until we change Bulgaria, the political class and the status quo in the country. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u340	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u341	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As I promised before the Additional Provisions, I would like to make a procedural proposal to extend the working time until the vote on the Draft Rules and its adoption is completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u342	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 175 MPs: 110, 47, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. We'll continue until the point is complete.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u343	I'm continuing, Mr. Chairman, but I object to the fact that the lights have been turned off in this room. The lighting should be for everyone, not just for the presidents of some parliamentary groups when making declarations. [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u344	I'll take precautions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u345	"Additional provisions'. The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the draft § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for § 2. The Commission supports the text of the draft § 3. The Commission supports the text of the draft § 4. The Commission supports the text of the draft § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the draft § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u346	Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? I won't. I shall close the deliberations and put to the vote the text of the draft on the name of the compartment of the section of additional provisions and paragraphs 1 to 8 including the Commission's report. Vote 174 MPs: 153 against 1, abstention 20. The term "Additional provisions" (paragraphs 1 to 8) and paragraphs 1 to 8 (including the Commission report) have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u347	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of the subdivision. The Commission supports the text of the draft § 9. Dear Mr. Chairman, I am making an editorial clarification in the text where the provision of art. 48, para. The provisions of Article 1 shall be taken into account. 51, para. 1. The Commission shall support the text of the draft § 10 which shall take place § 11. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs for the establishment of a Final provision. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 10. I'm adjusting here. ..................................................... (1) Articles 118 and 128 shall not apply from 1 July 2017 until 31 December 2018. (2) By 31 December 2017, every two months, the Council of Ministers shall submit a report on the implementation of the Preparation Plan of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018. By 31 December 2018, the Council of Ministers shall submit, for information and other documents relating to the preparation and implementation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018. I would also like to propose § 12 with the following content: ................................................................................... The Rules of Procedure shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u348	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u349	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kirilov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the form of a speech, but I just want to ask you the question, as it is about texts concerning the Presidency of the European Union, to explain what this change needs to be done, although our representatives in the Commission have told us, it deserves all representation to know. We will support it, but it is important to understand exactly what we are doing about something that we have all declared to be consensual and together we will bring it to good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u350	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? I won't. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u351	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, Dear Mr. Zarkov! I am not sure that it is I who will best explain all the details of the issue you are asking, but the initiative for these amendments came from the caretaker government and from the Deputy Prime Minister Ms. Denitsa Zlateva, who sent a letter. Here my colleagues have given me text without attributes, but we have it with outgoing numbers and with the signature of Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Given that during the Presidency, some of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure should comply with this circumstance, we have a regime which is laid down in two provisions under which the annual plans for work with the European Union are being prepared. There's more paperwork. I'm gonna have a hard time quoting them now. The point of the caretaker government is that during the Presidency there is no need for this regime. Instead of these annual reports, the report on the Presidency itself should be discussed between the executive and Parliament. This is why the legal expression of the two transitional rules that we have written down says that during the period of the Presidency, which has been vetted and read it, will not apply these rules from the corps of the Law, but instead will apply the special rules for reporting documents on mutual readiness in relation to the Bulgarian Presidency. In order not to be too shallow, because I recognise that on this matter I cannot accurately quote the documents, I will allow myself to read fragments of the letter: I propose, in the adoption of the new Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the implementation of the provisions on the preparation and submission of the Annual Work Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union and on the submission of reports on the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union during the previous Presidency and on the priorities of the Republic of Bulgaria during the current Presidency, to exclude what we have done for the period from 1 July 2017 to 31 December 2018. Finally, I would like to express my confidence that in the foundations of a strong and successful Presidency of the Council of the European Union there is fruitful cooperation and interaction between the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly. This is the path that will turn our future presidency into a cause to inspire and unite, not to divide and oppose.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u352	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. For a line - the People's Representative Anton Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u353	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm using the form of a line to tell you something I don't think I heard in this room. Technically, however, they are not art. 114, 124, 118 and 128? Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u354	You're making a hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u355	Yeah. Dear Mr. Kutev, I have received assurances from fellow referees that we have corrected the numbers of the texts according to the renumbering. And with regard to the main question here is the original of Mrs. Zlateva's letter. It has exit number 025547 of 24 April 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u356	Thank you. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I put to the vote the name of the section "Concluding provisions" as well as Articles 9 to 12 as presented to you by the parliamentary tribune on the report and with details which were made by the parliamentary tribune. Vote 180 MPs: for 179, against none, abstention 1. The "Concluding provisions' section and paragraphs 9 to 12 on the Commission's report and with the details made by the parliamentary tribune have been adopted. We are moving on to an annex to the Rules of Procedure of the Financial Rules of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u357	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Annex to the Staff Regulations of Financial Rules on the Budget of the National Assembly. The Commission shall support the Annex to the Rules of Procedure. Proposal by the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs: In the Financial Rules of the Budget, the National Assembly shall establish an additional provision: Additional provision: ................................................................................... For the mandate of the 44th National Assembly, the main monthly remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly under art. 5 shall not be recalculated and shall be determined in the amount of remuneration received by the Members of the National Assembly in the 43rd National Assembly for the month of December 2016. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u358	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u359	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have made this proposal because we believe that this is the smallest sign that the National Assembly can give as an empathy for the vast majority of Bulgarian citizens who live on the threshold or below the poverty line. The logic of our proposal is that the commitment seen in the coalition agreement, the management programme of the future government, is for a possible increase in incomes at the end of the term of office, there is no way, in our view, to maintain the current practice for a three-month update of the remuneration of the MPs. I think this is a good sign and an example of empathy to the vast majority of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u360	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Come in for a speech, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have made this proposal in the form of an Additional provision, that is, the formula for calculating the salaries of the Members of the National Assembly remains as stated in the Rules of Procedure, but for the mandate of this Forty-fourth National Assembly, salaries should be frozen by December 2016. [[DPS lines.]] Here and colleague Boychev said it, this is what we do for a reason solidarity with the Bulgarian citizens who live in murderous misery, in severe misery. You all know the latest cases of this difficult winter in Bulgaria. One of them, now I remember, is when one person, a Bulgarian citizen, had eaten snow for a week, gave it to all television stations. This is one step towards solidarity with Bulgarian citizens, who were anyway brought by this government, which went to the threshold of this murderous misery.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u362	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u363	Be solidarity and freeze your salaries within the forty-fourth National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u364	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? National Representative Vladislav Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u365	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor to comment on the proposal not only in terms of its technical nature, but also in terms of the practical sense of such a debate. Strange technique uses colleagues from the left to institutionalize their proposal, as this could have been resolved in art. 5 of the Financial Rules. I pay attention to you that we do not reaffirm old rules, but we accept new rules. If you were willing to do legal work, you could in art. Five sentence two, delete it. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Then he wouldn't need the debate right now the way we're leading him. More interesting, however, is the point of such a decision. If we freeze your remuneration the way you propose, we are not sure that we will achieve the objective you are proposing, because it is quite possible, as happened in 2016, that there will be a quarter in which the remuneration will decrease. So what do we do, guys? The debate on the remuneration of senior officials is of public concern and it has not been resolved since the time of the Grand National Assembly, since it dates to the first version of these rules, by the way. Many other institutions have been subsidized to them over the years, including authorities other than the legislative authorities, which we will now influence under the Constitution and the rule of the parliamentary state. But will we achieve the best golden section? Who said that the three salaries that have now established themselves as a sign or as a principle are the best solution for the remuneration of the MPs? Colleagues, if you think our work is so overrated, why don't we move on to a nominal number and bid on this nominal number until demagogy and stupidity reach zero? Or infinity! If you want, let us keep this principle now and together with you to come up with a new mechanism by which the MPs deserve to receive remuneration, which reflects the real ratio of remuneration in the country. There will always be poor and rich. There will always be poor and rich! If we decide, the MPs can work without remuneration. Such a decision is possible, although the Constitution lays down a principle that everyone is entitled to remuneration. What I would suggest to you and we would be involved in such a debate, I know where the problem comes from, the problem of averages is that sometimes in economic cycles, which was, for example, in 2009 and in 2010, the average is growing, and the real income of most people is decreasing and the economy is going down. In 2015 and 2016, this was not the case. In 2016 we have more than 10 percent nominal increase in the average salary, from 917 BGN. average for January 2016 it reaches BGN 1012. at the end of 2016. That is, the formula in this case works in the right direction and preserves the proportion of remuneration received by the Members of the National Assembly and senior officials, such as President, Prime Minister, members of the Constitutional Court, participants in regulatory bodies, not to list which are bound by this. Where is the incentive actually and how is our work measured, except by improving the well-being of Bulgarian citizens? If the well-being of Bulgarian citizens grows, our reward will also grow. If the well-being of Bulgarian citizens does not grow, our wages will also decrease. Freeze alone does not give a solution to this question, does not answer that question. Therefore, I suggest that we stop the debate so far, since it is not a single vote for everyone to vote as they see fit for such a decision. But if you are willing to sit down with a constructive debate to determine the remuneration in this country for the higher state positions which are defined as bodies of government in the Constitution and in other laws, and this topic will never be a topic of debate again. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u366	Thank you, dear Mr. Goranov. For a line there is the word of the people representative Valeri Zablyanov, after him Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u367	Dear Mr. Goranov, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The topic is extremely important, not the topic of the salaries of the MPs, but the topic of salaries in Bulgaria, their level and the level of income. Accept our offer as a signal. And it seems to me that Mr. Goranov read it this way by proposing a debate on the size of the salaries of the senior officials. But I want to express a concern. Mr. Goranov, your expectations that it can be obtained so that the overall level of income and wages in Bulgaria in certain three-month or other time periods will decrease, cannot happen as this goes against the program and the principles that the newly formed parliamentary majority has just adopted. From this platform we expect growing incomes, new peaks in the development of the market economy and, of course, in relation to the current mechanism, increasing salaries of the MPs. That is why we propose this article to the Financial Rules and Freeze. The second question, however, about the level of income in Bulgaria, seems more substantial. This average salary, which you quoted, which has been constantly launched and in election campaigns, is formed at the expense of the growth of public sector salaries, in the public sector. This should be a very serious signal to every economic team of every government. Abandonment between salaries in the private and public sectors means that we do not have a working economy, that we have orchestrated and directed salaries with different regulations, overlegal mechanisms and at the same time a private sector that cannot catch up with the increase in wages and the rate of wages offered by state institutions and state organizations. This is a very serious reason to think about a coalition that is declared to be right. Because this ratio, this disproportion, is clear evidence of the state of the economy and the state of the private sector. If you think through the salaries of state officials through artificial mechanisms and rules...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u368	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u369	...to demonstrate the welfare of Bulgarian citizens will not work. Thank you for your attention. Sorry for the delay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u370	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Here's a line. [[Replications between MPs from GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I fully support what Mr. Goranov said about the systematic location of the text. Indeed, you're right, you're absolutely right. To work for a new mechanism, too, yes, and your representatives of GERB have publicly expressed that they are ready to think about this, let's do it. But in fact, what we are proposing now, so we have also tabled a solution, is practically nominally to freeze the salary by December 2016, which is slightly below 3,000. lv. instead of the first recalculation made and entered into force in 2017, when the salary was around 3,200 thousand. BGN, which exploded in the middle of the campaign. You remember what the response was. Unfortunately, the National Assembly does not enjoy much authority and every week and every three months when we raise our salaries, we do not contribute to this. I also understand your criticism of averages. It has also been reflected twice before in the previous meeting and in the previous meeting have taken decisions to freeze wages, stating that it should not exceed, after the recalculation, the salary of December 2009, precisely in order to avoid what you said. In other words, we agree to start working right now and I am sure that a quality mechanism can be quickly found, but it is important to do so now or at least before April, when the next increase will come. It's important because in the meantime, yes, you are talking about our stimulus, but the salary remains quite high. You know the statistics that came out the other day about population poverty. We don't need this debate. Let's start it so we can finish it. And indeed 13 categories are high public positions that depend directly or indirectly on this decision, so the issue is not just anecdotal. Let us vote on it, let us say that this Parliament will take as much as December 2016, with a clear commitment [[noise and lines]] I conclude that we will support your better decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u372	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Here you go, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u373	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not agree with your wording that it should change art. 5 And you have defied yourselves. Our proposal is properly and systematically located because we are not changing the formula for which there should be a really deep and broad debate on how to calculate the MP's salaries, and we agree. Let's freeze them now and then talk about the formula. Why should this formula remain, and then we should change it? Let's freeze them, then let's change the formula for calculating the MP's salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u374	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mr. Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u375	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With lawyers for legal engineering, I, as a simple accountant, will not argue, but I would not understand how I will apply then art. 5 or § 1. That is not important in this case, in essence, I just want, in the form of a duplicate, to produce data relating to the average salary. It is not true, colleague Jablyanov, that the average salary in Bulgaria is predominantly influenced by expenditure in the budget sector. Unfortunately, for one reason or another, apart from certain separate policies relating to the social sector, the cost of remuneration in the budgetary sphere in recent years has not been increased by targeted policy. Yes, the average salary in the budget sector is slightly higher than the average salary in the private sector, if we compare a form of property with 30-40 BGN. I will give you specific statistics, there is it on the website of the National Statistical Institute, but it should be borne in mind that the number of people employed in.. and this is actually good news, the private sector is four or five times greater than the number of people employed in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u376	Thank you, dear Mr. Goranov. Any other speeches? I won't. I am closing the debates and putting to the vote a proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 186 MPs: for 74, against 31, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the Annex to the Rules of Procedure, supported by the Commission. Vote 192 MPs: 113 against 42, abstention 37. The application to the Rules of Procedure has been accepted. There's a negative vote on Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u377	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since there was no time to speak and the procedure progressed, the negative vote is actually an explanation of the previous vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u378	No, that's the vote you voted on!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u379	In this vote, I'll explain it to you to understand what I'm talking about!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u380	Yeah, it'll come out.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u381	Taking into account the accuracy, at 2 p.m. we had announced a tribune and introduced ourselves to all the media. We are against the populist proposal to freeze the salaries of the MPs. We're for freezing the MP's salaries, but, first, cut in half. We believe that the parliamentary salaries do not correspond to the work that is being done and the well-being of the Bulgarian people. So if you had offered the MP salaries to halve them and then freeze them until we started presenting ourselves better to Bulgarian citizens, we would have gladly supported it. But the populistic, simple freezing of high levels, I've also heard this in the drug trade, let's level the prices, let's rob the Bulgarian people! We would never support that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u382	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. And the last app.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u383	Annex to art. 76, para. 1. "Metodology for carrying out a preliminary assessment of the impact of the drafts. The Commission shall support the Annex to art. 76, para. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u384	Statements? There are no speeches. We vote on the Annex to art. 76, para. 1 supported by the Commission. Vote 175 MPs: 170, none, abstention 5. The Annex to art. 76, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure has been adopted, and so has the entire Rule of Procedure. Congratulations, guys! We have rules on the organization and activities of the National Assembly! [[Woman cheering from GERB.]] Parliamentary control announcements on 28 April 2017, Friday, 11.00: 1. The Minister of the Interior Plamen Uzunov will answer five questions from the MPs Krum Zarkov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Plamen Nunev [[two questions]] , and Valentin Radev and Manoil Manev [[two questions]] . 2. The Minister of Education and Science Nikolay Denkov will answer a question from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev, Svetla Bachvarova and Anelia Klisarova. 3. The Minister of Energy Nikolay Pavlov will answer a question from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev and Tasco Ermenkov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - the Deputy Deputy Minister of Social Policies and the Minister of Health Ilko Semerdzhiev "To two questions by the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and to one question by the MP Stoyan Mirchev; - the Minister of Agriculture and Food Hristo Bosukov to two questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Dora Yankova; and to five questions with a written answer from the National Representative Desislava Taneva; - Staff Minister for Regional Development and Public Works Spas Popnikolov to four questions from the MPs Manol Genov, Lilyana Pavlova [[two questions]] , and Dora Yankova; seventeen questions with written answer from the MPs Lilyana Pavlova; and one question from the MP Lilyana Pavlova. - Minister of Education and Science Nikolay Denkov of a question by the National Representative Petar Vitanov; - Minister of Justice Maria Pavlova of two questions by the National Representative Ekaterina Zaharieva; - the Minister of Environment and Water Irina Kostova of a question by the MPs Pencho Milkov, Krum Zarkov and Georgi Stoilov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the reply to: - a question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Galab Donev. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourning today's meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-27.u385	Tomorrow we will continue from 9:00 a.m. with 3 and 4 points. Projects for decisions for the establishment of temporary committees, which were included at the request of colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria. We're adjourned. Tomorrow, a regular meeting of 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
