ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-12.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Before we move on to our only item on today's agenda, a few messages. In a letter, in a letter. No 754-00-22 of 11 May 2017, the People's Representative Veselin Naydenov Mareshki informed the President of the National Assembly that he agreed within the meaning of art. 70, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria for the waiver of his immunity to the MP in the Forty-fourth National Assembly in relation to the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. No 727-00-2 of 27 April 2017 granting permission to engage in and conduct (continuation) in criminal proceedings against him. By letter dated 11 May 2017, the President of the National Assembly informed the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of the written consent given by the National Representative Veselin Mareshki and a certified copy of it was attached. On 11 May 2017 the National Assembly was submitted by the Court of Auditors a final audit report, No 03-001-007-16, for an audit of the implementation monitoring of the implementation and migration of graduates from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015. The audit report was submitted on the basis of art. 49, para. 3 of the Law on the Court of Auditors. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was submitted to the Committee on Education and Science and to the Committee on Budget and Finance. The National Assembly has received reports from the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period from 25 December 2016 to 24 April 2017, together with the minutes of meetings of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the accounts were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On behalf of a parliamentary group, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-12.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The reason for the declaration is the tension created as a result of the serious disproportions in financing the activities of hospital care facilities. For unknown reasons, regardless of the declared increases won by the Bulgarian Medical Union, the National Framework Treaty for 2017 has practically reduced the limits between 5 and 15% for different university, district, municipal and private hospitals. Despite last-minute assurances that there is an additional 3% provided for each month of the quarter, these 3% cannot compensate for the drastic reduction. During the time of Minister Moskov, the budgets of hospitals were reduced by almost 10%, and now they are again significantly reduced, leading to a threat to the financial existence of hospitals. The methodology for the allocation of the limited finances of the National Health Insurance Fund does not imply equality, justice and equal access to medical assistance for citizens from different areas of the country. The leaking information from the various units of the NHIF leads to reasonable concerns in the health collectives due to the need to limit their medical activities............................................................................................. will not be financed................................................................................................................................................. For information, we must explicitly share that, according to the data provided by the NHIF, the excess activity of hospitals for the period from October 2016 to April 2017, which has not yet been paid, is more than 34 million. lv. It is scandalous that certain hospitals, for no good reason at all, have received a sharp increase in funding, can show the specific data without any change in the structure and characteristics of the disease or in the number of citizens in the area concerned. In other words, we have an unjustified increase in funding and, at the same time, it has the impression that hospitals of national importance, such as university and regional ones, have, in practice, an equally unjustified reduction in funding. It is absolutely unacceptable that an institution like Pirogov gets 800 thousand. lv. less funding. This also enables the conclusion of the completely unbalanced location on the territory of individual, including high-tech medical units, which does not meet the needs of Bulgarian citizens and creates conditions for risk to their lives if necessary the urgent use of such lifesaving medical technology. How do we explain to the Bulgarian citizens that the budget for medical activity of a person, for example in Dobrich district, is six times lower than in Plovdiv district?! We have repeatedly paid attention to the insufficient public funds allocated by the budget for healthcare and also to their fundamentally incorrect allocation in accordance with specific corporate interests. Equally justified are the patient's concerns. People are worried that they will have to circulate literally between hospitals in order to be accepted into the one with free financial resources, even though there cannot be the full amount of medical care required. They are also afraid that all this leads to an increase in unregulated payments in the health care system. For Bulgaria, BSP cannot accept these facts and therefore we insist: to review and increase the budget of the NHIF and to be structured in a way that is adequate in the different fields of activities and not in advance to put a deficit in place to put at any given time the health system of risk; to strictly respect the principles of equality, justice and equal access of citizens to health care; budgets of regional health insurance funds to be drawn up in accordance with regional health cards; expert assessment of the health status of the population in the area concerned and demographic indicators. The decision of the NHIF Supervisory Board of 17 January 2017 to pay the excess activity to hospitals for 2016 to be implemented immediately. If this does not happen, we will support the Bulgarian Medical Union to refer the matter to the Supreme Administrative Court because the medical activity is indisputable after it has been accepted and reported by the NHIF. The question of the payment of excess duty to hospitals for 2015 should be raised again and paid accordingly. The proposed limits of hospital care facilities should be discussed in advance so that each hospital can plan its revenues and expenses. Absolutely unprofessional is the average square of the Bulgarian on-dupectient at stake in the National Framework Treaty. This violates a basic principle that ensures the success of antitumour therapy. We need an urgent revision of the National Health Card and launch within the earliest possible time limits of the negotiations on the new Framework Treaty for 2018, with a view to the need for maximum optimization of the qualified medical care needed for all Bulgarian citizens, regardless of the region in which these citizens live. Finally, we need a serious parliamentary debate on health issues, which is prepared with the participation of only the Committee on Health. Then a public debate is needed to show the Bulgarian citizens that we are really interested in what the Bulgarian has long put in the first place as a well-being of his family. Colleagues of directors, you declared before the elections priorities for education and health care. You start after the elections again with the eternal concession of the airport.Sofia, concession for construction at the sea.. another retreat and disbelief to those who supported you. The Bulgarian BSP remains consistent in its policy. Every day we will raise the questions that excite Bulgarian citizens and propose a solution for them. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-12.u3	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. This was a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, presented to you by the National Representative Georgi Mihailov. Are there any other declarations? I won't. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 1 May 2017 to 11 May 2017: First, there is a request from the National Representative Manol Genov to Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, concerning the policies of the Ministry concerning the demands of municipalities for consent for change in the purpose of former school buildings with a decline of necessity. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 19 May 2017. Secondly, a question was asked by the National Representative Anelia Klisarova to Nikolay Petrov, Minister of Health, concerning the distribution of funds for hospital care between the various districts in the country. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 19 May 2017. Written answers: Written answer from the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Anelia Klisarova. This is the only written answer received. We are moving on to the questions of Valentin Radev, Minister of the Interior. He will answer a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov about the state of the facilities at the border of Bulgaria and the readiness to counter illegal migration. You have the floor, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-12.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The geopolitical situation has changed and in relation to the geographical situation of the Republic of Bulgaria our country faces risks of illegal migration. What we have been seeing for 4-5 years is: the pressure is increasing after the warming of time during spring and summer months. Minister, I ask you to answer the question: what is the readiness of the Ministry of Interior to counter illegal migration and what is the state of the facilities at the border and the assembly of the employees of the Ministry of Interior? Please focus on your vision will you make changes to the organization? Do you intend to improve the efficiency of employees' work in countering illegal migration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-12.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Mr. Secretary of the Interior, please come in for an answer. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-12.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Iankov, as is known, the problem with migrants dates back to the end of 2012 and the beginning of 2013. Even then the so-called "Specialized police operation on the border with Turkey and the vulnerable sections of the border with Greece" was launched. For support of the operation was built a 30km engineering impeding facility, which I will next call the facility on the land border with Turkey during the government of Mr. Oresharski. Then and so far, they have already been adopted with protocols 133,021 m such a facility. There are still 21 km away, which are the part around Haskovo, the Tundzha River, the Rezovska River and the Deliyska River near Burgas. This needs to be built on this facility. The main problem is the need for an adjoining road to the facilities from these 30 km built, as the field roads leading to them are unsustainable and make security difficult and significantly depreciate the equipment. The so-called monitoring systems are built around almost all borders. The most sensitive part is Captain Andeevo, Lesovo, and Lesovo, the Rezovska River. It's intended to expand these systems. You know that there is a system called the Blue Border, including ships, where up to 24 km large ships are observed and 12 km deep into the sea for the remaining smaller ships. For observation there is such an automated system on the Bulgarian-Serbian border. In addition, we use the four police helicopters we have in the Directorate of Police in order to monitor the border with Turkey, Macedonia and Serbia. Three of them are equipped with surveillance sensors. The state of these facilities, the monitoring systems, including fixed mobile thermal imaging systems, as well as the individual technical means of handheld thermal imaging cameras, glasses, binoculars and so on, according to our assessment is satisfactory. After the planned measures for maintaining them in good functional condition and completing them where there are no integrated systems, we believe they will be reliable protection for migrant pressure. As for the demand, the second part of your question about countering illegal migration is tested on the ground every day and according to our assessment is high. Evidence of this is those who pass and catch them at the entrance-exit. Only this morning, the reference is: Three at the entrance and four at the exit. In addition, the migratory pressure has decreased many times over the period to April, with the period from last year between 8 and 10 times. However, this does not cancel the potential, I stress, the danger of migratory pressure. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-12.u7	Sorry, Minister Radev. Colleagues, if you don't mind, let the Minister finish his reply, as the topic is interesting enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-12.u8	Mr. Chairman, I'm almost finished. The Border Police Directorate General is taking a number of measures to control the increased migratory pressure in other directions, with other measures. You're witnesses, we've been in and out together, and we've changed the legislation. The Bulgarian Army and the Armed Forces after the changes in the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces....................................................................................... 57 are involved and helping guard the border. To conclude, I would stress that the assessment of how we are doing is to ask whether we are going to raise something effectively by our European partners. You know, last year they gave 160 million. euros that we will use to strengthen what we are doing so far. Finally, there is a problem at the moment with the absorption of this 160 million. Euros are slowly becoming public procurement. This is true, but we will not substantially change that was your question after the official questions from the stands... what currently exists, as we are doing well. Something that works well, we consider for now not to change, at least substantial. There may be an improvement somewhere, but a substantial no. We will continue to be one of the best to defend the external European border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-12.u9	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Iankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-12.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Radev, I am not satisfied with the assessment that you give for the state of the engineering obstruction facility the integrated protection system and the technical provision of the employees. You said "satisfactory." We expect effective work and some of the result is influenced by this condition. They must have reported to you, but you're saving some of the integrated protection system from the thermal imaging cameras are not working. This is done by filling in the living force. You don't forget that you're being listened to by employees who are on the border? You have once again confirmed that there is no engineering obstruction facility over 20 kilometers. You have probably already met that the initial assignment for an engineering obstruction of type A in type B has been changed, which further engages a living force from the Ministry of Interior and the Armed Forces of Bulgaria. I am surprised that you declare that you will continue in the same way the actions taken. At the same time, you are at odds about efficiency, as within the last 24 hours you say: From January to April: 294 at the border, 1420 at the Bulgarian-Serbian and Bulgarian-Romanian. Is our state border being effectively defended? Is the work of the Ministry of Interior effective, along with the Armed Forces, to cross attempts at illegal passage after illegal migrants have been captured across the entire territory of our country? I expect you to reconsider and find the mistakes of the current leadership, to take measures, so when the question to you is: can we trust the authorities that are technically secured to protect our border? You should be able to answer: "Excellent, motivated, with all the resources of the state we protect our border." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-12.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Minister Radev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-12.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Mr. Iankov, there are problems and you know it. We were in the Internal Security and Public Order Committee together. And they are related to the fact that the warranty deadlines have expired on all three systems. I mentioned them in the short time I had. That's right, and the employees know it, and I know it, and you know it. There is a delay in procurement for materials needed to repair these systems. But I also said something else that we will not change what we have done in good practice. After all, we are those who are praised by the European Union, and not because they are the European Union, but because we are protecting the external border. They themselves say: "Yes, we are doing well, we are giving you more money. And they're ready to give more. We're not gonna change that. Otherwise changes of systems, changes in the way of guarding the border, and I want none to pass, and you want, and we all want no one to cross where it is not regulated. Just through the checkpoints and there to keep them. But that's impossible. Yeah, now I can promise you a lot of things. I'm saying what we're not gonna change. The effectiveness can never be 100% here, we will not fool ourselves, and I will not promise you such things from this high place, but we will do what is necessary. Not only about these information systems, you're probably gonna ask me, and you probably know about the four, I said three have systems, one we're using right now. I ask you and it will certainly be about this when it comes to the budget, when you talk about 100% or at least close to it efficiency, to be careful and vote well for the money for the Ministry of Interior. This will help mostly the technical means that are needed, which I am noticing right now. Let us do this, I can promise you, we will make every effort to make public procurement as well as for this 160 million. euros that are literally creaking so far are not going well, going better and supplying the police with what is necessary and border police too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-12.u13	Agreed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-12.u14	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. [[Applause.]] With this answer, which was the only one, we have exhausted the agenda. The next session is on May 17th at 9:00 p.m., Wednesday. I wish you good work in the constituencies. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
