ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u1	Good morning, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, allow me to present to you the draft Work Programme of the National Assembly for the period 19 July 2017, approved today at the Conference of Presidents: "1." First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. The people's representative Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs on 4 July 2017. 2. Second vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Military Monuments Act. The People's Representative Valentin Kasabov and a group of MPs on 14 June 2017. He was accepted at the first vote on 28 June 2017. 3. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection. People's representatives Danail Kirilov, Stanislav Ivanov and Ivelina Vassileva were brought in on 11 July 2017. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. The People's Representative Delyan Dobrev and Danail Kirilov were introduced on 25 May 2017. He was adopted on the first vote on 29 June 2017. 5. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. They are: the People's Representative Boris Yachev and a group of MPs of the first Draft Law, submitted on 15 June 2017; the People's Representative Stanislav Ivanov on the second Draft Law, submitted on 30 June 2017; the MPs Boryana Georgieva and a group of MPs on 5 July 2017. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature. The people's representative Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 28 June 2017. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 June 2017. Adopted in the first vote on 22 June 2017. The proposal is to be the first item for Thursday, 20 July 2017. 8. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Insurance Institute; presentation and public disclosure of documents; hearing of candidates in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the importer. It is proposed to be point 2 for Thursday 20 July 2017. 9. First vote on the State Aid Bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2017. 10. Parliamentary control. Please vote. They voted 188 MPs: 155, none, abstention 33. The work programme has been accepted. We have a proposal based on art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by Prof. Anelia Klisarova and Irena Anastasova At present, the proposal is unacceptable, but we have made it clear to the Conference of Presidents that, after being examined today by the Commission, which is the lead, tomorrow will be proposed as the first point for Friday, in order to meet all the conditions under our Rules. Draft and draft resolutions from 12 July to 18 July including: - On 12 July 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Agricultural Property was adopted. The people's representative Alexander Matsurev and a group of MPs are importing. It is allocated to the lead Committee on Agriculture and Food and to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. - On 13 July 2017 a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Development Bank Act was introduced. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. - A Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees was introduced on 14 July 2017. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, as well as the Committee on Environment and Water, is leading. - A bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code was submitted on 18 July 2017. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Leading Commission has not yet been designated. - On 13 July 2017, with Ix. No. AD-720-00-14 in the National Assembly received a decision to terminate proceedings No. FP-093-17-088/4 July 2017 of the Commission for the prevention and establishment of conflict of interest in connection with a signal against Teodora Tochkova, Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. The decision has been published on the Commission's website. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics. - The National Assembly received a letter from the Minister of Justice along with the described annexes to it. A report by the Anti-Corruption Group on the implementation of the recommendations to Bulgaria from the fourth round of assessment, prevention of corruption in relation to the MPs, judges and prosecutors, discussed and adopted during the last plenary meeting of the Group in Strasbourg from 9 to 23 June 2017. A list of the recommendations of the GRECO Assessment Report for Bulgaria from the fourth round of 27 March 2017 is also included. By letter, the President of the National Assembly provided the materials received to the Commission to combat corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. The Members of the National Assembly may meet them in the Commission. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, the Council of Ministers informed the National Assembly that Decision No 392 of the Council of Ministers of 2017 amended Decision No 340 of the Council of Ministers of 2017 on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces in connection with the conduct of a multi-national high visibility exercise. The material was received on 17 July 2017 with Ix. No 702-00-28 and made available to the Defence Committee. - On 14 July 2017 with Ix. No. A.D. 750-06-57 from the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Complaints of Citizens has received information about the Commission's activities for the period from 10 May 2017 to 30 June 2017. The information is sent to the MPs by their official email and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. - On 14 July 2017 in the implementation of a decision of the National Assembly adopted in connection with the debates on questioning No 754-05-13 of 17 May 2017 by the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev and Manol Genov, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov received information from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme of Multifamily Buildings. The information is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. - The National Statistical Institute has received information about the indexes of consumer prices for June 2017. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We're moving on to the first point of our accepted work program. THE LAW OF CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will be presented to you by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. You have the floor, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention, ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 754-01-35, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov, Christian Radev Mitev, Anna Vasileva Alexandrova and Iglika Ivanova-Saturation on 4 July 2017. At its meeting held on 12 July 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 754-01-35, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov, Hristian Radev Mitev, Anna Vasileva Alexandrova and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva on 4 July 2017. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice. Mrs. Desislava Ahladova Deputy Minister. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Kirilov, who pointed out that it aims to increase the guarantees of independence and impartiality of judges, prosecutors and investigators, as well as to eliminate all prerequisites for exercising influence over the judicial authorities. It is proposed to align the status of elected members of the Supreme Judicial Council upon termination of their term of office with that of the magistrates who held the positions referred to in art. 195 para. 3 of the Law on the Judiciary, as well as the ban on the exercise of commercial activity by magistrates. In order to ensure full political neutrality of magistrates, it is proposed that magistrates may be members of electoral committees. Guarantees shall be introduced for the freedom of professional association of magistrates and it is envisaged that word organisations may not engage in activities other than those aimed at protecting their professional interests and that only persons acting magistrates are proposed to be members of such organisations. The Law introduces changes in the financing and in the form of the formation of the property of the associations for the ideal purpose created by judges, prosecutors and investigators, as well as of the professional organisations of the judicial officers. In view of the peculiarities of their profession, it is envisaged that funding sources should be only membership imports, property contributions and donations from their members. The establishment of a Partnership Council is proposed to cover representatives of all professional organisations whose members are more than five per cent of the respective number of judges, prosecutors and investigators, ensuring the representation of magistrates who are not members of such organisations. The bill introduces removal from office of magistrates in all cases of accusations of a serious deliberate crime of a general nature, preserving guarantees relating to the temporary nature of such removal and obtaining a minimum wage for the duration of this measure. All magistrates are scheduled to submit a declaration revealing their activities and memberships, not just for newly appointed ones, thus aiming to ensure the independence and equality of magistrates. People's representatives Philip Popov, Dencho Boyadzhiev, Danail Kirilov, Krum Zarkov, Emil Dimitrov and Christian Mitev took part in the discussion. Mr. Popov and Mr. Boyadzhiev said that they would vote abstention and Mr. Boyadzhiev welcomed the idea of the bill, but expressed the need to refine separate provisions between the first and second votes, especially with regard to the submission of a declaration to the persons under art. 195a, al. 1, Izr. 1. People's representative Krum Zarkov expressed a negative opinion on the proposed bill, saying it is against its concept. Mr. Mitev and Mr. Dimitrov spoke in support of the bill, with Mr. Mitev noting that his acceptance will increase the confidence of citizens in the judiciary. Mr. Danail Kirilov declared himself the stability, independence and transparency of the judiciary, pointing out that the political party GERB parliamentary group will make a proposal between the first and second vote on the financing of the word Magistrate organizations on projects under European programmes and funds of the European Union and of the European Economic Area. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes in favour, 1 vote in favour and 5 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 754-01-35, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov, Hristian Radev Mitev, Anna Vasileva Alexandrova and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva on 4 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. We don't have another report. An importer's opinion? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I will begin the presentation of this Bill by activating your memory, I will take the tape back one year when we were discussing at that time the overall package for amending the Law on the Judicial Authority not only in the section "Reflecting the amendments to the Constitution" but also significant changes regarding the status and the judicial self-government of magistrates. I recall this fact because in the debates last July, we commented quite thoroughly on the legal regime relating to guaranteeing the independence of magistrates. There have been many opinions, we have made many proposals, some of them have been adopted, they have become legally binding for the entities. With regard to the regime of declaration of circumstances, we have foreseen and completed new circumstances to be guaranteed by the magistrates. At present, we do not have any evidence of a complete fulfillment of the obligation to declare circumstances as provided for in the Law. For this reason, with this bill, we recall this obligation of the magistrates and, if the texts are adopted, we provide for a new 30-day period in which this obligation to be fulfilled, I stress, by all magistrates, by all magistrates, as was the will of the legislator then. It is precisely by examining the dependencies, the risk of falling into such dependencies, and in order to maximise the link between the financing of the work of the organisations that have spoken for the magistrate with their objectives, that we have proposed an equivalent rule and decision relating to this funding, namely the means for carrying out this activity by the word organizations to be collected from membership contributions, from personal contributions and donations, but only from members. We also believe that it is particularly necessary to complete the development of legislation in this direction by strengthening transparency guarantees. Let it be clear that if this rule is not adopted only for internal financing of the word organizations, then let us be aware, let us be aware, let us be public about who, by what projects of these organisations, receives funds, with which clauses, modalities, if any, the donations in question, what is the relationship between the donated funds and the pursued objectives. If necessary, I would develop more and more in detail this issue in a statement. I would stress here that the importers have not had any comment on the reasons for the involvement of such thinking organisations in projects of the European Union and of the European Economic Area. This is most likely because we have a wonderful and profound idea of the activities of these thinking organizations. This issue arose subsequently and, as has been read in the report, we, colleagues from GERB, as importers, have made an explicit agreement in the discussion before the Legal Commission, we also confirm it to you that if the Bill is adopted at first reading, we will make a proposal for explicit arrangements, in this context, for word organizations to be able to participate in the projects of the European Union and the European Economic Area. Many are the provisions that we propose to be refined in relation to the independence and impartiality of the judges. We propose to align the status of the elected members of the Supreme Judicial Council upon termination of their term of office with that of the magistrates who held the positions referred to in art. 193, para. 3 of the Law on the Judiciary. We propose to specify the ban on the exercise of commercial activity by the magistrates, and here, perhaps, and within the debate, it would be necessary to clarify and specify some of these prohibitions. We believe that it is a special achievement that we propose to establish a Partnership Council by members of the Supreme Judicial Council to communicate between the Supreme Judicial Council and the word organizations. We believe that this is in favour of mutual work and strengthening self-government. We are preciseing some hypotheses in the removal of a judge, prosecutor or investigator from office with regard to the crimes for which an investigation is being carried out. I mentioned and detailed the proposal for 30-day period from the adoption of this Law to have an obligation to submit such declarations. I would like to remind you that these are the declarations that we discussed in detail in the Forty-third Parliament for membership in all organizations, both in so-called secret organisations and in conditional organisations and in all other organizations. Thank you for your attention. We're going to be in this debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I'm opening the debate. Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose an extension of the time limit for written proposals under the Law for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber to a maximum, that is to say, we extend by another three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Please vote on the procedure so proposed for extending the time to adopt proposals between first and second readings. They voted 147 MPs: 133, against 3, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. We will proceed to the first item of the agenda. I've opened the debate. I give the floor for speeches. Mr. Markov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u8	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam President! I take the floor to support the bill of my colleague Danail Kirilov and the other colleagues who are related to the independence of the judiciary in Bulgaria. I immediately want to say that I am in my right and have the confidence to speak on this subject, because I have been a nine-year constitutional judge of this country and have repeatedly voted in many decisions to protect the independent judiciary, as is the case with the Constitution. Moreover, I was the rapporteur of a case relating to the judiciary, in which the Constitutional Court annulled more than 40 provisions of the Law on the Judicial Authority "that was during the NDSV when the Minister of Justice had believed that he could command the judiciary. Something very important. In the distant 1990s here in this Chamber, long before the Constitution of Bulgaria was adopted, I had the honour as an opposition MP to experience the pleasure of the entire Grand National Assembly adopting the bills I submitted for the liquidation of the administrative courts in Bulgaria, to confirm the role of the court as the only judicial body in this country and its independence. Then we canceled and closed the committees under art. Article 15 30 of the Law on Rental Relations, when judges left their judicial offices and went to the district councils to sit on the left or right of this or that chairman of the Executive Committee and to decide on matters of jurisdiction of the court. We closed down the special committee to the Committee for Territorial and Urban Devices, when supreme judges left the judicial offices to go to the Committee and to stand to the left and right, to this or that chair of the Committee, which was ranked as a ministry, to decide with questions from the planning building of the settlements. We have closed the comrade courts, we have extended the judicial control of the administration, we have given the court the opportunity to rule against the administration immediately, and not as it was after a second refusal, not to mention the restoration of the Supreme Administrative Court. When the Bulgarian Constitution adopted that the judiciary was independent, it simply did so because millions of Bulgarian citizens from the first rally on 18 November, of all political forces, raised slogans: "Independent Court and Prosecutor's Office! Therefore the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office fell into the judiciary because it could also be in a separate place, as is for example in other constitutions. But this was done by the constitutional legislature to highlight the role of the independent judicial institutions in Bulgaria. More than that. Our Constitution envisaged that the judiciary has a separate budget as a guarantee of its independence and issued an interpretive decision by the Constitutional Court. That was 1995. Decision No 17, which said that if any parliamentary majority tried to financially touch some of the judicial authorities, then this was the Supreme Judicial Council, it would follow the annulment of the entire State Budget Act. Thus, the independence of the Bulgarian judiciary, combined with its own budget and the direct action of the Constitution, requires any funding of Bulgarian judges, prosecutors and investigators from other bodies. This follows directly from the Constitution and it is good now that it is said in the Law because independence is not only from political parties and from the party state. When the Bulgarian Constitution was adopted 1991, art. One had fallen a long time ago. This is independence not only from parties and other state bodies, but is independence from everything and everyone at all. This is the will of the Bulgarian constitutional legislature. And membership in the European Union does nothing to change that independence. Nothing! Because membership and Bulgaria is a loyal member of the European Union. This is not called into question in Bulgaria we are not only a member, but we are a very loyal member, we have not lost our national sovereignty, as well as the independence of the judiciary. I heard this morning that they said that Mr. Daniel Kirilov looks like Victor Orbán and I can just say congratulations for such a compliment. [[crowd cheering, partial applause]] Because he is a young politician and there is no greater compliment for a young politician than any of the former socialists to compare you to Orban. Not only because of his past before November 10th 1989, when he created a party to fight communism, not only because he called on Soviet tanks to leave the country, not just because of border guards, but because he declared himself against the attempts of foreign foundations, through non-governmental organizations in the country, to impose on the supranational government. Unfortunately, our media did not report a big meeting yesterday and this was Viktor Orban's meeting with Mr Netanyahu, where he received direct support from the Prime Minister of Israel because he was accused of anti-Jewish feelings. And right now there's a meeting between Netanyahu, Orban and the Visegrad Four. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria: What does this have to do with it?!]] The Bulgarian state provided a very good payment to the Bulgarian magistrates and should be, given their great responsibility. To be so good from membership imports their thinking organizations to protect, as they see fit, their interests are professional, domestic and so on. Foreign institutions can't finance the Bulgarian magistrates, American, Russian, Iranian, Arabic or so on. This is at all incompatible with the independence of the judiciary. Therefore, there is an independent budget to receive money only from the Bulgarian state formed in the Republican budget. Since many Western ambassadors watch our judiciary and often make comments, they should know that the Bulgarian Parliament has done everything that a simple National Assembly can do last year. On the verge of the Constitution three readings was divided the Supreme Judicial Council, agreed with two thirds to complete the parliamentary quota. It won't happen again. No one prevents the Bulgarian magistrates from law-making well anymore, creating responsible organizations and self-financing and stopping talking from television, but talking to judicial decisions, which is the work of the magistrates. They have no other job than the Constitution to protect the rights of citizens, the rights of legal persons and the Bulgarian state. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u9	Thank you, Lord Markov. Replies to the statement of the MP, Mr. Markov? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and I, as Mr. Markov, have the self-esteem and I claim to have known this system for many years. It is a special system and in it a concept such as quick reforms are counterproductive. Such requirements for this system are always made for speculative purposes. This system is conservative, and who says it doesn't change? It is changing, but here we see, we are bringing in this Bill changes last year, but this must be gradually, well thought out, after a long debate, because its purpose in terms of this system, as well as of all other systems and spheres in public, economic, political and spiritual life is its mastery and this has been done by liberal environments for years. Their problem is that because it is a conservative system, it is harder to control than others and something is not working for them. Lately, they've intensified their efforts to trap her, destroy her, and subdue her to their own goals. You see, how up-to-date is this Bill, tabled right now, at this moment when the public through its emancipation, the Bulgarian National Assembly feels what it is about, feels the danger that is hanging over this system and we import this Bill to stop these actions. He's got a public instinct, and right now this bill is exactly like that. And there are dissatisfied people from this bill who are currently jumping two meters above the ground and wondering how to deter the provisions that we have put to the vote. And the people who want to master this system, I speak a little sneakyly, like those who spoke before me, Mr. Markov, and Mr. Kirilov, are people outside this system, they are also inside this system. All of us here know of a senior magistrate, president of the Supreme Court, who already named not just any judge, but the first judge of Bulgaria. No coworkers, first, second, third and fifth. All judges are magistrates, they are equal, and each is in the position of one in a district court, another in a district court, another in an appeal, third in an administrative court or in a Supreme Court of Cassation, but there is no first. I can't understand how society, how analysts, how journalists continue with this whole lie and lift them up, here some people absoluteize them, they bring them into positions, into positions that they are not followed, which they have no right to, and we all get caught up in, including ministers who interact with them, as if they bring the reform, they speak on behalf of justice. A magistrate can't make politics. He has an obligation to solve cases and nothing more. This was introduced to him by the Law, by the Constitution and he has no right to give interviews, no right to participate in actions of political forces. And what we all do is we mythologize certain people, we dress them in the robes of reformers, the people who barely wear the truth and the reform of this system. The judicial system is not bad, it is not good, it is like all other spheres and systems of public life, from what our country has reached in its development. But some people make it a lot, they spit it out a lot, and that's what they do. So what are we doing today? The issue of the influence of these NGOs is very relevant. We have the wonderful example in this regard in a country that can be for us as an example - this is Hungary. We are making these changes to the Law in order precisely to limit the influence that we inevitably see. I will stop talking, I will stop talking about this Magistrate, this will be a separate topic. In one case, this is not a specific topic at the moment, I will develop my thesis and turn to everyone who inadvertently creates the illusion that this person and the others around him are carriers of the change in the judiciary. The change in the judiciary is doing little, bit by bit, piece by piece, as we are doing at the moment, consistently so that this system is adequate, be in its place and we will support this bill as useful in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We move on to the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 754-01-35, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov, Christian Radev Mitev, Ana Vasileva Alexandrova and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva on 4 July 2017. Vote 174 MPs: 116 against 6, abstention 52. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary was adopted at first reading. Moving on to item two on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLAINTING THE LAW FOR MILITARY PAINTERS. Importers: Valentin Kasabov and a group of MPs. It was introduced on 14 June 2017. Adopted in the first vote on 26 June 2017. Please, Mr. Toshev, read the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, Report on the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Military Monuments Act, No 754-01-21, submitted by Valentin Kasabov and a group of MPs on 14 June 2017, adopted on the first vote on 28 June 2017. The Law on Military Monuments is now in effect amended by the Law on Military Monuments and the Law on Military Monuments. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of the name of the Law. The Law on Military Monuments is amended and supplemented by the Law on Military Monuments.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u13	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer on the name of the Law by the Commission and the version by the Commission of the Law................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Please vote. They voted 153 MPs: 153, with no objection and no abstention. The name of the Law on the Commission's report is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u14	By § 1 there is a proposal from the MPs Slavcho Velkov, Tasco Ermenkov, Kolyo Milev and Nikolay Tsonkov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be read in conjunction with the proposal referred to in point (a) of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the EEA Proposal by the National Representative Plamen Manushev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become the only paragraph. I'm the only one. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 1, the words "The Bulgarian army" shall be replaced by the Armed Forces. After the word "the population" shall be added to the Bulgarian border guards who died in the security or defence of the state border.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u15	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor in terms of t. 2, which was not discussed, first of all, I would like to note that, in my opinion, and according to my colleagues, Article 2. 84 which is given grounds not to vote in the Commission on this text, regulates the way in which a law at second reading is voted in plenary and not in committees. At least I think it's the logic of the Rules we have. So I find it unacceptable that our proposal has not been discussed. And to be constructive with what we have proposed, I will take this opportunity once again to motivate our t. 2, since it is about monuments that are related to the famous Bulgarian heroes who are not buried in military cemeteries, because such cemeteries were not there, they are buried in individual cemeteries, but are warlords, who are recognized only one name I will give you: Vladimir Vazov, for others I will not go into details. By the way, I can also give the name of Ivan Lukov, who is one of IMRO's heroes, so... Don't be fooled by the Lukov family, colleagues, I'm talking about Ivan Lukov. So I think that what we are proposing is right, it is admissible for discussion, all the more so that the Law is not just for supplement, but also for amendment of Law and, in this regard, to show both constructiveness and what has been mentioned in the debates, I propose an editorial addition to our proposal, namely to comply with the opinion of the Ministry of Defence, which, in principle, by accepting our motives, also agrees to have one such point second, by proposing an editorial one in point. 2 Ours, which is not military monuments under this law, are the individual graves and the lasting grave symbols on them of the persons under para. 1 "Let's add what the Ministry of Defence has to offer: "In addition to those of distinguished leaders and military heroes, it goes on to the text. I think that this way we will be able to respond to the fact that there are heroes in Bulgaria and these heroes have to play a uniting role. Their monuments should be honored, not left at the mercy of fate, because indeed the monument of Vladimir Vazov in Central cemeteries is something terrifying if a person goes to see it. I hope that my colleagues will really reconsider the opportunity to support this proposal, together with the editorial of the Ministry of Defence, signed by the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Mr. Karakachanov. I mean, as you can see, what we're proposing is acceptable from the Ministry of Defense, from the minister himself. Once again, please very much, first of all, allow Mr President to vote, this thing, because I think it has indeed been unlawfully unspoken on a member who does not regulate the work of the Commission, regulates the work of the Chamber if there are substantive issues to discuss point two, let us discuss them now. Another rod I call for our second point to be supported. We will support the first point, we support the whole idea put into this Law at all, because we have somehow lost them, and they are really heroes who have died for the protection of the state, but I ask you, using now the opportunity to expand the opportunity to care for hero monuments, who are unconditional heroes of Bulgarian history, who have dedicated their lives, dedicated and acted for the unity of Bulgaria, for its prosperity, for having us on the map of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. My fellow Members, I will read you a sentence three, which is the basis of the Commission not to allow for a vote in the Commission point two. suppositions that contradict the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote shall not be discussed and voted. I'll allow it in the way you've made the offer. If not accepted, I suggest you consider a version of the Commission's text. There's no other way technically that's gonna happen. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Toshev. That is, you can make a change to the Commission text if point two is not adopted after a vote in the House. I'm explaining to you what technology is. Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With all due respect to BSP colleagues, I specifically in the Commission asked that we not bring him into the Chamber because we are going to comment on national heroes who do not have party affiliations that are in the pantheon of Bulgaria's eternal glory and who have contributed extremely much to our being able to argue here today in this House in this way. Why did we not accept the proposal of colleagues to be discussed and voted at second reading in the Commission? First of all, because at first, when we discussed the Law, it was just for an addition and it was about border guards. The colleagues of IMRO made this addition to the Monuments Act very rightly because in a large part of the history of Bulgaria, Border Forces or whatever they were called, they were neither part of the Bulgarian Army nor of the Armed Forces of Bulgaria. In this way we pay tribute, credit, respect for people who have protected our territorial integrity and given their lives for Bulgaria and for all of us. But why didn't we accept... By the way, I would like to read you quite correctly the Opinion signed by Minister Karakachanov because I did not understand Mr. Ermenkov from where he read it. Karakachanov's signature is below the text: "We do not accept the removal of the text from para. 2 of art. 4. They're not military monuments and so on. Why? Colleagues, just for reference, without underestimating anyone in the hall, in the First World War, Bulgaria in the wars, the series from 1913 to 1919 participated over one million Bulgarians. Of them died about 120 thousand, the remaining 900 thousand live, came home safely and died for natural biological reasons, and were buried. They're heroes, they were involved in the war. However, after them we have in Bulgaria an Orthodox Christian, generic or whatever tradition we want, in family graves after a certain period of time to bury ancestors, fathers, sons and so on. And now if we assume to drop this text, that means that by the text of para. 1, we will include those over 900,000 graves, we will include the remaining approximately 400,000 who participated in World War II, of which only about sixty-several thousand people died, the rest lively, have come home more hard, worked hard and died 1965. And thus, in a rough account at first reading, without any analysis, we will add to the military monuments in Bulgaria over a million and 400,000 graves. Honor and honor to all who have fought and who have rotted in trenches. However, I said it in the Commission, with all due respect to one of the glorious, great generals of Bulgaria. Kolev, we will add to his monument and the grave of his horseman who watched his horses. He may have also shown heroism, but if he had shown heroism, people would have honored him with a single monument. Apart from that, Mr. President, if we now allow ourselves to look at this text of colleagues, we do not have the analysis, first the administrative, second the financial, third the follow-up of what will happen. I'm setting an example. The Ministry of Defence should take care of for example for a million and a half monuments, 50 leva. A year, it's seventy-something million. We don't have them on the budget, either for this year or for next year. Separated from that, colleagues, honor and respect and to Gen. Vazov and to Gen. Daniel Nikolaev, to all generals, and General Daniel Nikolaev. Kolev and so on, which are not respected with public monuments, but there is order, there is a procedure under the Rules of the Ministry of Defence with special committees on areas for military monuments that can be respected, only then we enter into the procedure to seek the heirs of these people, and to ask permission, a private property, a private monument... [[the President signaled that time had run out.]] I'm finished, Mr. Chairman, to be declared a military monument to be honored. So I suggest we stick to what the Commission has proposed and we told our colleagues: let them propose it as a separate bill for amending the Law, and we will discuss it, and we will vote on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u19	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Toshev, by reading t. 2 of the Minister of Defence, I ask you very much to read it all, and not just the beginning: We do not accept the removal of the text from para. 2 of art. 4 are not military monuments...... and so on, and after the point read what is written next. It says, "Accepting the reasons for this proposal, we propose the following version of para. 2..................................................... And the editing is this: They are not military monuments under this law, the individual graves and the permanent tomb symbols on them of the persons under para. 1 in the civil cemetery parks, except those of distinguished leaders and military heroes, as well as the monuments of the persons under para. 1 convicted of deliberate crimes of general nature against the Republic, property and the person. The minister himself did this as a proposal in the amendment of the Law. If you do not accept our proposal, I will make a formal editorial proposal. 1, and this is going to be t. 2 of this Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u21	Well, very editorial!?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u22	All of it. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u23	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u24	To be?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u25	What is here proposed by the Secretary of Defense, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u26	Not the Secretary of Defense. Give me the text of your proposal and how exactly to take place in the text proposed by the Commission. A hole? Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u27	Mr. Chairman, I would not allow myself to advise an experienced parliamentarians like Mr. Ermenkov that what he has just proposed on behalf of the Minister of Defence is not admissible. The Secretary of Defense in this case is not a country. He's only giving an opinion. If you're offering it, that's different. You read me the text that I didn't read, but the Secretary of Defense is proposing something that we can accept, we may not accept.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u28	That's why I'm waiting for Mr. Ermenkov to propose.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u29	So if colleagues offer something, I think that here and fellow lawyers should say, and you, whether this is acceptable, but we are changing the meaning of the bill itself, which we have adopted at first reading. So between first and second readings, we hardly have the right to make changes that go far beyond the bill adopted at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u30	Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, firstly, I would like to say that we appreciate the dignity of Mr. Kasabov's proposal and his colleagues that they have thought of almost nine years after the Law to propose this change. In support of what my colleague Tasco Ermenkov said, I would like to state the following. Our motives for a proposal for para. 2 were dictated by the idea of the need to preserve the memory of glorified Bulgarians who also contributed to the development of military art, military science. We have also heard arguments in the Commission. He's right, Mr. Toshev, we shouldn't turn this into an argument. The idea of that 1 million. And 600,000. The grave is not valid, I apologise, as it is, as is the proposal of Minister Karakachanov, who is not a country yes, but we should comply with what the Ministry offers us in the Commission. I'm gonna say it again, except for those of distinguished generals and war heroes. I don't see how Assoc. Mihov, if he is here, will vote against the proposal for Lieutenant General Ivan Tsonev Lukov, a hero of the war, winner of 20 or more Orders, Cavalier of the entire range, Ordn for bravery, not to honor his monument for military? What do we mean? Something quite ordinary. You, Mr. Toshev, didn't go, I recommend you go see General Toshev's grave. Vladimir Vazov in the 48th plot of Sofia's central cemetery - long unclaimed by parents, unpaid fees, abandoned, unwashed. Our idea was very, very ordinary. Two or three times a year, depending on the category we honor, whether they are militias, whether they are war heroes, let's say on March 3rd, the Day of Valor, the Day of Soul, to clean these monuments, to wash them, and most of all, that idea of Minister Karakachanov for the military-patriotic education there to lead students, children, to serve bouquets and to tell them: "Behold, this is the monument of the Father of the Bulgarian Horsemen! Is it their fault that they died before a military cemetery was created? We're talking millions! No, it's about something quite ordinary and the Ministry of Defense, where they can support these monuments. We can recommend, Mr. Toshev, to the regional structures and to the regional structures of the Union of Officers, Sergeants of the Reserve and Reserve, and they can also take care of it. Mr. Kasabov is here to tell you that the monuments of the dead border guards with very few exceptions are located in the border field. They're in the villages, state border. They are very difficult to care for, but they are placed on the spot, including by students and by collectives. They're 196, notice, and they're all along the state border. I will therefore support colleague Ermenkov, who will make the proposal. We would like and ask you therefore to agree to remain what Minister Karakachanov has to offer, namely: other than those of distinguished leaders and military heroes. We don't want anything else! We agree with everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, although late, my colleague Kasabov's proposal with this Bill is correct, and I am pleased that we had full understanding and support in the Commission of the proposal for the Bill. It is well deserved that people who have given their lives in defence of the state, for Bulgaria, should be honored and that someone should take care of their memory. I regret that we have not received an understanding of this to be extended the Bill, but since it is about people who also deserve respect and respect, we will submit a new bill with which we will want this to be resolved and I believe that then the National Assembly will support our proposal. Because with it, we are not looking for political dividends, but we really want people's memory to be preserved and respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u35	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I fully share some of the things that the speaker said. I just want to clarify one more time. We're withdrawing it, not because we don't want it to be there. We withdraw it because we want to make it regulated and not create dividing lines where we need to look for unification. For this reason, we withdraw our proposal and hope indeed in a dispute in which to find what will unite us around these characters, to be submitted to the National Assembly and also unanimously adopted, as will now be accepted, and so on. 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any other statements? A hole? Mr. Panchev, come in. Although we are coming out of the classical speaking procedure, a replica, a doppelganger, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, that's what I wanted to say. I believe that in the coming months, when we make the proposal for change, we will receive support and this issue will also be resolved. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the text of the Commission's importer, edited by it, in principle, supported by the Commission report. Please vote on Paragraph only on the Commission Report. Vote 162 MPs: 160, against none, abstention 2. A single paragraph has been adopted, and with this, the Second Voting Bill. Moving on to the next point: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. There is a report from the Committee on Environment and Water, which will introduce you to the people representative Zhivko Martinov. Before that procedure. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u39	Mr. Chairman, I ask for access to the hall of Nikolay Kanchev Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u40	Thank you, Mr. Valev. Access mode, please. They voted 131 MPs: 103, against 1, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Second procedure, Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u41	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I request that the period of the first Law on the amendment of the Law on the Judiciary adopted just now be shortened from 7 days to 5 days and expires next Monday at 6 pm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 132 MPs: for 83, against 3, abstention 46. The proposal made by Mr. Kirilov just now is accepted. We're moving on to the report. Here you go, Mr. Martinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u43	Madam President, honourable Members! Presenting: ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act No 754-01-43, submitted by Daniel Kirilov, Stanislav Ivanov and Ivelina Vasileva on 11 July 2017. At its regular meeting held on 13 July 2017, the Committee on Environment and Waters examined at first reading the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Environmental Protection, No 754-01-43, submitted by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Stanislav Ivanov and Ivelina Vassileva on 11 July 2017. The Ministry of Environment and Water attended the meeting: Nikolay Kanchev Iva Krumova, State Expert in the Law Council, attended by the Ministry of Justice. The sitting was opened by President Ivelina Vassileva, who presented the guests and announced the agenda adopted unanimously by the Commissioners. On behalf of the importer, the Bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, who stressed the importance of the Bill, including for strategic plans and programmes, and pointed out that the environmental impact assessment procedure (EIA) regulated by the Environmental Protection Act (EIA) introduced preventive activity as a basic principle in environmental management. A number of changes to the EEAI have improved EIA rules and requirements, as well as specific criteria for carrying out a mandatory assessment and the competent authorities have been regulated. The proposed Bill aims at reducing the time for the process and entry into force of the construction of objects of national importance, avoiding the long and severe appeal procedures and dropping the cassation control when the subject of the EIA are objects of national importance designated by an act of the Council of Ministers for such purposes. The same sites have undergone all coordination procedures, including the stages of notification to the competent authorities and the affected population, assessment of the need for EIA, consultation, definition of the scope, content and format of the report, assessment of its quality, organisation of public consultation and decision-making, and control of the fulfilment of the conditions of the EIA decision. Those stages shall ensure public participation which is a mandatory and essential part of the EIA procedure. The regulated requirements allow public opinion to be expressed at the earliest stage, and the appeal procedure is also settled. The proposed changes shall ensure compliance with publicity and shall also accelerate the entry into force of investment proposals by introducing and, in particular, legal proceedings to be concluded within six months of the submission of complaints. The proposals aim at uniformising the legal regime in the case of EIA appeal and are similar to the light appeal procedure in the Law on Device in the territory. According to art. 215, para. 7 of the Law on Construction in the Area, decisions of the Court of First Instance on Complaints or Protests against individual administrative acts approving complex projects for objects of national importance and against construction permits for objects of national importance, as well as refusals to issue such acts. Mr. Kirilov also stressed that the rights of all participants in the procedure are guaranteed by shortening the deadline for appeal to six months. A preliminary assessment of its impact, including grounds, interested parties, cost-benefit analysis, administrative burden and impact on legislation, has also been applied to the Bill. The attitude of the submitted Law took: the national representative Ivelina Vassileva, who stressed that the procedure for national sites is speeding up, while preserving the requirements for environmental protection; Deputy Minister Kanchev, who expressed the support of the draft by the Ministry of Justice by the Ministry of Justice; Mrs. Iva Krumova from the Ministry of Justice in support of the proposed changes; the national representative Nikolay Penev with a question about the number of delayed projects and objects received a response from Mr. Kanchev; the national representative Danail Kirilov, who pointed out that he has such a list and that he relies on the proposals made to activate the process for implementing such projects. People's representative Dzhevdet Chakarov voiced support for the draft, pointing out that they will make proposals between the two votes; People's Representative Manol Genov on the possibility of making mistakes and the possibility of re-examination; People's Representative Ivelina Vassileva, who once again pointed out that it is about objects of national importance, and on the review of the draft proposals there are sufficient procedures: from intention to decision on implementation; People's Representative Atanas Stoyanov on the control of procedures and the People's Representative Atanas Kostadinov, who expressed his opinion that the proposed draft is unacceptable for their parliamentary group and that they will make proposals for new texts on national projects and sites. The President called for other speeches, then ended the discussion and announced a voting procedure in which the Committee on Environment and Waters with 15 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection, No 754-01-43, submitted by Danail Kirilov, Stanislav Ivanov and Ivelina Vassileva on 11 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u44	Thank you, Mr. Martinov. We have no report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. An importer's opinion. Welcome, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u45	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The bill submitted by the MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB aims to speed up procedures under the order of the environmental legislation in the implementation of objects of national importance, which are defined as such by an act of the Council of Ministers. The bill amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act concerns three procedures which relate to the basic principle of environmental management, namely preventive activity. The procedures are: - a decision of the competent authority to assess the need to carry out an environmental impact assessment; - a decision on the environmental impact assessment, as well as the act relating to that procedure; - a solution for assessment of compatibility with the object and objectives of the network of the "Racifica" as a requirement and regulation laid down in the Biodiversity Act. The main changes we are proposing, as I said, concerning national sites, and these are road infrastructure sites, including highways and first-class infrastructure; railway infrastructure, port facilities; transmission system and others related to the passage in appeal of these procedures of single-installed production. What does that mean, according to our proposal? We propose, in appeal of such acts issued by the competent authority, that the Minister of Environment and Water be dealt with at one instance as the court ruled by a final decision within six months. That is to say, within six months, to complete the proceedings. What is the argument for the changes we propose? Undoubtedly, the great public interest in the realization of objects of national importance. The report shows that more than once, because of appeals against such types of projects, which are related to the implementation of national objectives and strategic tasks to secure our national infrastructure with adequate facilities, it takes a long time. Often they lead to delays in the implementation of investment proposals, which are often also linked to European funding. In this sense, the changes are predetermined by the high priority given to these sites as objects of national importance defined by acts of the Council of Ministers. These are procedures which are subject to coordination within the framework of the conciliation procedure under the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers, with the adoption of a decision on the designation of a national object. They shall be recognised as a special regime of protection in order to safeguard both the public interest and the protection of the rights of the persons concerned. This is an answer to the concerns expressed by some interested parties that access to justice is limited. No, it is not because the basic principles that are laid down in the fundamentals of environmental legislation are preserved and protected by the changes that we propose. The basic principles are: access to information, an opportunity for the public to take part in decisions that concern environmental protection, and, of course, access to justice. Those principles shall be valid at all stages of the applicable procedures. The procedures laid down in the Environmental Protection Act and the entire environmental regulation include: stages of notification to the competent authorities and the affected population; assessment of the necessity; consultation as regards the environmental impact assessment; definition of the scope, content and format of the EIA report; evaluation of the quality of the EIA report; organisation of public consultation of the EIA report; decision-making; control of the fulfilment of the conditions of the EIA Decision. In this sense, all these stages ensure public participation and it becomes a mandatory and essential part of the EIA procedure. Of course, the proposed changes ensure that the public is kept up to date, what we are giving priority to these sites, we also refer to the court which must rule by a decision within six months of the complaint being lodged. The proposals made shall also aim at uniformising the legal regime for appeal of the environmental impact assessment and shall be similar to the changes already introduced in the Law on Construction in the territory and the lightened appeal procedure under art. 215, para. 7 of the Law on Construction of the Area, which states the final decisions of the Court of First Instance on complaints or protests against individual administrative acts approving complex projects for investment initiative for objects of national importance and against authorisation for the construction and construction of objects of national importance, as well as refusals to issue such acts. Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Members who supported the First Reading Bill in the Committee on Environment and Water and to call on my fellow Members to support our proposal, once again based on the principles of environmental legislation, of course, environmental protection, first of all, preventive efforts, but in line with the high public interest, the importance, the importance of these sites. Let's speed up the procedures so that there are no delays that would have a negative impact on the realization of national and strategic objects that, of course, matter both for the economy and for our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u46	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. I'm opening the debate. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u47	Dear Mrs Presidential, honourable Members, it is commendable the efforts of importers to create a short and rapid path for solving issues related to the investment intentions of the country when affecting a certain range of protected areas in national parks. The changes to the Environmental Protection Act and the Biodiversity Act concern only the environmental and biodiversity acts, which are always a prerequisite for issuing permits for the construction of various investment proposals constituting objects of national importance from the Additional provisions of the Construction Act in the territory. This clarification is because it is necessary, because environmental legislation procedures are a mandatory prerequisite not only for issuing building permits, but mainly for approving common and detailed planning plans. The mandatory procedures under the Environmental Protection Act and the Biodiversity Act are carried out in the course of these procedures. Those acts shall be subject to judicial review under the general rules of the Administrative Procedure Code, irrespective of the fact that the acts approving the project and detailed development plans for objects of national importance are subject to uniform judicial control. In our view, importers have derived from the established practice of allowing and approving projects of detailed design plans in a range consistent with the territorial scope of the sites of national importance and from opportunities for the development of complex projects for investment initiative, where the contracting entity enjoys the legal possibility to only carry out one of the assessments under Chapter Six of the EEA, the so-called eco-innovation or EIA. The motive is very nice to reduce the time needed to process and enter into force the construction of objects of national importance and avoid long and heavy procedures. But in the end, what do you get? Citing amendments to art. 215 of the LUs, which were made six months ago alone, cannot give a unilateral legal assessment of the effect of this amendment. And somehow it hangs in the air placing as an analogue by importers of this change. We have not yet supported the bill to the Commission. We will make proposals between first and second readings. I would just like to point out, this is where the Supreme Administrative Court (VAS) is introduced. For the record, a judge at the Supreme Administrative Court has 25 cases. It is practically impossible, we will create a law, we will set a time limit that cannot be fulfilled because of the workload of this body. There are now prerequisites for it to be further loaded, and the volume, scope of circumstances, of the facts of this entire environmental legislation process is extremely large in volume. So we will make once again, I repeat, we will make proposals between first and second readings. We respect, support the desire for a fast track, so to speak, but we want there to be a level playing field between the countries, because now the state will be one breast ahead, and what about private investors who have the same investment intentions, who will experience the same worries and go through the same bureaucracy to get to the realization of their projects? Right, colleagues, we want to invest in Bulgaria, we want jobs, we want many things to happen after these investments. So we from BSP for Bulgaria will make our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Any lines to Mr. Genov's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u49	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, at the risk of repeating some of the arguments of the speaker and in order not to continue this debate very much, I would like to say very clearly and simply that we consider it very valuable to create a fast track for the approval of nationally significant investment projects. At the same time, we would even support and insist, together with our colleagues from GERB, that we create such regulation, which has an analogy in many other laws, both in ZOP and in ZUT, and in the Law on the Management of Funds, and in the Election Code. At the same time, we would not want to give up the two-in-oneness of this process in terms of protecting public interest. On the contrary, there are also many examples that there is a single-installed production that is admissible under our legislation, but it does concern cases that are not of such wide public interest. Therefore, without going much further, I really think it is appropriate between first and second reading to think about and support such a fast track, even shorter than the one at stake, but it must also be combined with reform in other laws, so that courts can effectively do their job because you know that VAS is overwhelmed with such activity and cannot carry out its duties. I want to say something about the investment environment. Of course, the attractiveness and competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy is, in my opinion, somewhat a fact, we have quite competitive advantages. But if we don't create a legitimate legal environment that makes investors feel calm, I don't think we're going in the right direction. So I ask you once again to respect our opinion. We support what many people have taken for their cause to stop, but very often maliciously and deliberately large investment projects, to prevent for unknown reasons. We believe that this process should be developed normally. This is our position very briefly defined. Yes, for a fast track that you offer and what is the main idea, but please consider keeping at this stage the two-installation procedure with the relevant reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I request a voting regime for the first reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act No 754-01-43, submitted by Daniel Kirilov, Stanislav Ivanov and Ivelina Vasileva on 11 July 2017. Vote 151 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 51. The motion is accepted. Procedure, come in. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I propose that the Bill which we have just reviewed should be reduced to five days between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u52	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made. They voted 145 MPs: 113, against 10, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PUBLIC PRESENTATION OF THE PRINCIPAL SECURITY. With the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism you will be acquainted with its President
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u53	Colleagues, for admission to the Chamber, I propose: from the Financial Supervision Committee, Vladimir Savov, acting as Vice-President of the CFSC, Alexander Tsvetkov, Head of the Legal Service Department, in the Directorate of Investment and Anna Andonova, Director of Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u54	Please vote on the proposal made. They voted 133 MPs: 131, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. You have the floor, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u55	Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, No 754-01-10, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev and Danail Dimitrov Kirilov on 25 May 2017, adopted on the first vote on 29 June 2017. The second vote. The Law on the Public Offering of Securities is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. According to § 3 there is a proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77b the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is created t. 3: "3." By decision of the Commission, it has been established that the following conditions exist at the same time: (a) financial instruments and/or cash held by the investment firm at the expense of its clients are not available on the relevant accounts for reasons other than the performance of contractual relations with customers; (b) at the discretion of the Commission, at this time, the investment firm is unable, for reasons directly linked to its financial situation, to repay the cash to customers, to recover the financial instruments respectively, and will not be able to do so in the short term. 2. A new para is being created. 2: The decision referred to in paragraph 2 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 1, t. 3 shall be taken within 10 working days of the knowledge that the investment firm does not fulfil its obligations to clients for the payment of cash and/or for the transfer of financial instruments. The Financial Supervision Commission may take a decision under para. 1, t. 3 and after the withdrawal of a license of an investment firm to carry out activity, outside the cases under art. 20, para. 2, p. 3 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it the words speak. 1 or 2s are replaced by.......................................................................................................... One, three, three. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4. 5. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for 6. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and in it at the beginning is added "In the cases under para. 1, t. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u56	You have a say in this? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the name of the Law and paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 on the Commission report. They voted 136 MPs: for 136 against and abstention there is no. The name of the Law and paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 are adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u57	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77e, para. 3 t. 3 is "3." a person proposed by an association or associations representing management companies authorised to carry out activities and provide services under art. 86, para. 1 and 2 of the Act on the activity of collective investment schemes and of other collective investment undertakings and which are obliged to make cash contributions to the fund under the terms and conditions of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u58	That was art. 77e, para. 3, p. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u59	That's right. According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77g the following 1. In para. The second sentence shall be created: The Vice-President shall inform the Associations under Article 2. 77e, para. 3 for the beginning of the three-month period within which to submit a proposal for members of the Management Board of the Fund. 2. In para. 3, p. 6 the word "disclosure' is replaced by "disclosure'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77z, para. 1, t. 3 the word "invested" is replaced by "receipt decisions" for investing and finally added to "accepted internal rules and restrictions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u60	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 4, 5, 6 and 7 on the Commission report. They voted 136 MPs: for 136 against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the Commission report have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u61	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77n the following 1. In para. 7 the words of the investment firm, respectively the change in the subject matter of the activity, in the Commercial Register, shall be replaced by the application of a licence to carry out the activity as an investment firm. 2. A new para is being created. 13: In cases where the amount of client assets under para. 2, determined on a monthly basis, is greater than zero, the annual contribution is not less than 100 BGN. 3. So far, the Al. 13 becomes para. 14. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "In the cases referred to in art. 77b, para. 1, t. 3, if the Commission has not taken a decision to appoint a Quaestor, the Vice-President shall submit the written information on client assets to the Fund. 2. In para. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): The following The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u62	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 8 to 11 including the Commission's report. 135 MPs voted: 135, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraphs 8 to 11 including the Commission report have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u63	On the next paragraph, there is a proposal of the MP Delyan Dobrev for a new paragraph. The Commission supports this proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: supposed to Article 3 is replaced by the following: 79b: Art. 79b. (1) For admission to trading on a regulated market, issuers of securities shall be required to have legal entity identification codes. (2) The issuer shall notify the Vice-President of the Commission and the regulated market on which securities are admitted to trading of its identification code within 7 days of the issue of the relevant code. 3) The information provided to the European Securities and Markets Authority on issuers and their emissions shall contain an indication of the relevant identification codes. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u64	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 12 with its corresponding content on the report, as well as paragraphs 13, 14 and 15 on the Commission report. They voted 144 MPs: for 144, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 12, 13, 14 and 15 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u65	There is a proposal to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 92d, para. The 3th sentence is amended as follows: "The project is made available to the public in a language that is common in international finance or in Bulgarian, at the choice of the issuer, offeror or person requesting admission of securities to trading on a regulated market. According to § 15 there is a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: If, after 6 months of issuance of the bond issue, bonds are not admitted to trading on a regulated securities market, the issuer is obliged to buy, at the request of a bondholder, the bonds under the bond value within 7 days of receipt of the request. 2. Previously on AMC's... 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 become respectively. 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. 3. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 and it creates a new sentence third: The issuer is obliged to assist the trustee of the bondholders in the preparation and holding of the general assembly of the bondholders. 4. The creation of para. 9. If not otherwise settled under the terms of the issue and/or in an agreement between the bondholders, the costs of the enforcement of the issuer's assets for the claims of the bondholders, including but not limited to fees, legal and legal advisory fees, shall be allocated by a decision of the general assembly of the bondholders, taken in accordance with art. 204, para. 3 of the Commercial Law. The trustee shall not be responsible for the recovery of the claims of the bondholders in the event of default by the issuer of its liabilities under the bond loan if the general assembly of the bondholders does not take a decision by the first sentence that less than 80 percent of those due by the bondholders, according to the decision referred to in the first sentence, amounts for execution costs, are transferred.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u66	You have the floor to speak. There aren't any. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 16 with its corresponding content on the report and § 17 on the Commission report. We are voting on paragraphs 16 and 17 on the Commission report. They voted 144 MPs: for 144, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 16 and 17 of the Commission report have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u67	Under § 16 the Commission supports the proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100b the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 4 the words "including the quorum and majority requirements for the adoption of changes by the general assembly of the bondholders' shall be replaced by the "including the specific parameters of the bond issue that are subject to subsequent change'. 2. A new para is being created. 3 and paragraphs 4, 5, 6 and 7: s) Changes in the terms under which the bonds were issued, including the specific parameters of the bond issue, may be made no later than two months before the maturity of the bond issue. (4) The changes under para. 1, t. 4 shall be adopted by the general assembly of bondholders representing not less than two thirds of the bonds issued, by a decision taken by a majority of not less than three quarters of the bonds submitted. A larger quorum and majority may also be provided for in the prospectus, respectively, in the proposal for bond subscription, for decision-making to change the terms and parameters of the bond issue. (5) In case the decision under para. 4 is for partial early repayment of the bond issue, the repayment shall be carried out in proportion to each bond issued. (6) Changes in the bond issue, other than those under para. 1, t. 4 as well as changes made in violation of para. Three-five, they're small. (7) Within 5 working days of the decision under para. 4 an information document shall be drawn up which includes up-to-date information on all parameters of the bond issue. Within the term referred to in the first sentence, the information document shall be made public by making it available to the Commission, the regulated market and the public in accordance with art. 1, para. 3 and 4. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u68	We are voting § 18 on the Commission report. They voted 132 MPs: 132, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 18 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u69	There's a proposal under §17. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100d the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "only a commercial bank with its registered office" or "bank" shall be replaced by a bank with its registered office in the country, a bank with its registered office and, finally, a bank with its registered office in a Member State of the European Union under the conditions of establishment. 2. A new para is being created. 2: supplier of the bondholders may also be an investment firm that holds: 1. a licence issued by the Commission to provide investment services and/or to carry out investment activities under the Financial Instruments Markets Act, or an investment firm from a Member State that carries out the activities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria through a branch; 2. own funds of not less than BGN 1 500 000 and meets the capital adequacy requirements of investment firms; 3. The personnel and information security for the effective performance of their functions and duties as a confidant according to the requirements of this Law, the implementing acts and the contract under art. 100a. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "supplier' shall be replaced by "bank' or "investment firm'; (b) c. 1 the words "s' is replaced by "s' which are "s'; (c) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." which control the issuer directly or indirectly or are controlled directly or indirectly by the issuer of the bonds. (d) c. 3 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'; (e) c. 4 the words "significant conflict between the interest of the bank or a person controlling it' shall be replaced by "conflict between the interest of the bank or investment firm' or by a person controlling the bank or the investment firm'. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it the words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing 5. They're creating an al. 5, 6, 7 and 8: The issuer shall inform the Commission and the public in accordance with art. 100th, para. 3 and 4 on the need to terminate the contract with the trustee of the bondholders within 7 days from the expiry of the 30-day term under para. 4 when the discrepancy with the circumstances under para. Three hasn't been removed. (6) Within 7 days of the conclusion of the contract with the new trustee of the bondholders, the change of the trustee of the bond holders shall be stated in the relevant security register without affecting the order of the collateral. (7) The change under para. 6 shall be recorded in the relevant register in which the security is entered on the basis of the contract concluded with the new trustee and the decision of the General Assembly of the bondholders to consent to the change of the trustee. In the event that the registration should be carried out in the property register, the contract concluded with the new confidant must be signed with a notary certification of the signatures. (8) In case of change under para. 6, the current confidant is obliged to cooperate fully with the issuer and the new confidant in relation to the actions under para. 6 and 7, including by carrying out the necessary legal and factual actions necessary for the effective replacement of the trustee without changing the order of the collateral. 6. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 9 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 7. The creation of para. 10: In the event of a circumstance under para. 9, the issuer of the bonds is obliged to convene a General Assembly of the bondholders within 30 days of the date of the entry into the trade register, the fact of para. 9. Within the period referred to in the sentence first, the issuer shall submit to the Commission the invitation together with the materials referred to in Article 1. 100a, para. 3 sentence 2, subject to the requirements of para. 2 and 3, in the order of art. 100th, para. 4 and to disclose it to the public in accordance with Article 4. 100th, para. 3. The contract with the newly elected trustee of the bondholders shall be concluded within the time limit laid down in art. 100a, para. 1 sentence, second sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u70	We are voting § 19 on the Commission report. They voted 127 MPs: for 127, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 19 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u71	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 3: (aa) in the text prior to the letter............................................................................................... is added...................................................... is................................................................................................... 100th, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (bb) in point (d) the words "as the issuer shall also provide relevant evidence of the date and amount of the payments made' shall be deleted; (b) point 4 is amended as follows: "4." under the terms laid down in the contract and upon request by the trustee to provide him with any other information and documents specified in the contract or necessary to the trustee for the performance of his duties, and in the absence of a time limit agreed in the contract for the provision of the information, it shall be provided within three working days of the request by the trustee. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The issuer shall provide the report under para. 1, t. 2 of the Commission and of the public under the order of art. 100th, para. 3 and 4 as well as the regulated securities market on which bonds are admitted to trading.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u72	We are voting § 20 on the Commission report. Vote 120 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 20 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u73	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100g the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 3: (aa) in the text before the letter................................................................................................ 100b, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 100b, (bb) in (e) the words "art. 100d, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 100d, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of (b) c. 7 the words where they are traded shall be replaced by the words which are admitted to trading. 2. In para. 2: (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." by the end of the business day following the day of knowledge to notify the regulated market on which the bonds are admitted to trading and the commission on the failure of the issuer; (b) c. 2: (aa) in point (d) (i) it shall be added at the end to represent the debtors and to defend their rights in the proceedings; (bb) in point (d) (i) the final addition shall be made to represent the guarantors and to protect their rights in the insolvency proceedings of the issuer. (c) a letter shall be created: (e) proceed to individual enforcement under the Civil Procedure Code against the issuer or third parties providing collateral in relation to the issuer's liabilities under the bond loan. (c) create a t. 3: "3." notify by the end of the next working day the regulated market on which the bonds are admitted to trading and the Commission of the actions taken under point (c) of paragraph 1. 2. 3. A new para is being created. 3: The regulated market shall disclose on its website by the end of the business day on which it is notified the information under para. 2, p. One and two........................................................................................... 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and is amended as follows: The central depositary is obliged to provide the book to the guarantors at the request of the trustee representing them, respectively, to the issuer in the cases under art. 100d, para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u74	We are voting § 21 on the Commission report. They voted 118 MPs: 118, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 21 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u75	According to § 20, there is a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100h the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "other way' shall be replaced by "insurance'. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: For the benefit of bondholders, only first-in-one bets and mortgages may be established unless the issue refinances the issuer's liabilities that are already covered by a pledge or mortgage that will serve as collateral under the new bond issue. The pledges and mortgages established in favour of the guarantors may be different from the first in order, and the terms of the issue should be provided for the period within which the collateral under the refinanced liabilities should be deleted and then the collateral under the new issue will be cleared first in order. 4. The creation of para. 4. In the event that the guarantee is an insurance, it shall be concluded with an insurance company with a credit rating of a minimum level determined by the ordinance under art. 100o, para. 4 t. 4. The insurance shall be considered as collateral within the meaning of para. 1 only if the insurer has committed unconditionally for the entire life of the insurance contract whether or not the premium is paid in full.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u76	We are voting § 22 on the Commission report. They voted 120 MPs: for 119, against 1, no abstentions. Paragraph 22 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u77	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. The first sentence shall be added to the first sentence, unless the terms of the bond issue provide for the release of the funds raised from the bond loan to be made after the formation of the security made within a period specified in the terms of the bond issue. 89... and the previous sentence second becomes the third sentence. 2. In para. 3 the words "the bank trustee" shall be replaced by "the truster." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u78	We are voting § 23 and § 24 on the Commission report. They voted 118 MPs: 118, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraphs 23 and 24 of the Commission report have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u79	Under § 23, there is a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100w are made the following additions: 1. In para. 1 in a sentence first after the word "The Commission" is added to "to publish to the public in accordance with art. 100th, para. Three and four. 2. In para. 2: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the word the commission is added to the public in accordance with art. 100th, para. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. (b) c. 2 after the word "Transition" "Preliminary repayment" is added. Under § 24, there is a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 110 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 7 the words "7-day term' shall be replaced by "two working days'. 2. In para. 9. (a) c. 1 the words "seven days' shall be replaced by "two working days'; (b) c. 2 the words "7 days' shall be replaced by "two working days'. 3. The creation of para. 10: The Financial Supervision Commission shall enter into the register referred to in Article 1. 30, para. 1, t. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act the issue under para. 9, p. 1 within two working days of receipt of the application, respectively, of submission of all documents required for the entry.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u80	We are voting on § 25 and § 26 on the Commission report. They voted 118 MPs: 117 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraphs 25 and 26 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u81	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 111 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 6 sentence first after the word "Commission" is added and the public is added in accordance with art. 100th, para. The first sentence is replaced by the following: 2. A new para is being created. 8 and 9: The public company shall inform the Commission and the public in accordance with Article 8. 100th, para. 3 and 4 as well as the regulated market on which the shares are admitted to trading for the number of redeemed own shares no later than the end of the business day following the day of redemption carried out under para. 5. (9) In the event of non-compliance with art. 187a, para. Art. 5, respectively 187d of the Commercial Law, the public company is due within one month from the expiry of the term under art. 187a, para. 4 respectively under art. 187d of the Commercial Act to convene a general meeting of shareholders, at which a decision to reduce the company's capital as a result of the nullification of the own shares held in breach of those provisions. 3. Previously on AMC's... Paragraphs 8 and 9 become paras 8 and 9 respectively. 10 and The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u82	We are voting on § 27, § 28 and § 29 on the Commission report. They voted 114 MPs: 113 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraphs 27, 28 and 29 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u83	Under § 28, there is a proposal from a Member of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 30. 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 114 the following amendments and additions are made. 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 : (aa) the point (s) is amended as follows: s) one third of the lower value of assets according to the last two drawn-up accounts of the company, at least one of which is audited and which are disclosed publicly in accordance with art. 100 t; (bb) in point (b) the words "the last drawn-up or the last drawn-up balance sheet of the company' shall be replaced by the last two drawn-up accounts of the company, at least one of which is audited, and which are disclosed publicly in accordance with art. 100 t; (b) c. 4 the words "the last one or the last one drawn up in the public company's balance sheet' shall be replaced by "the last two drawn up accounts of the company, at least one of which has been audited, and which have been disclosed publicly in accordance with art. 100 s, and where transactions are carried out in the course of the company's normal business activity and in favour of a subsidiary, the value of which is above the value of the company. point (d) is replaced by the following: (c) c. 5 the words "total value' shall be replaced by the value of which for each of the companies is'; (d) point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. the company acquires or transfers a commercial undertaking or acquires or transfers a set of rights, obligations or factual relations forming part of a commercial undertaking; (e) c. 7 the words "the last one or the last one drawn up in the public company's balance sheet' shall be replaced by "the last two drawn up accounts of the company, at least one of which has been audited, and which have been disclosed publicly in accordance with art. 100. 2. In para. 3: (a) c. 1: (aa) in the text before the letter (s), at the beginning is added to the statement (s) and the word (s) shall be deleted; (bb) in point (b) the word "two' is replaced by "five'; (b) c. 2 all over the word "s' or "s' is replaced by "s'/or "s'. 3. A new para is being created. 4. It is also subject to prior approval by the management body of the public company to the decision of a subsidiary not to participate in the capital increase of its subsidiary in its subsidiary, resulting in the participation of the subsidiary falling below 25 per cent or a multiple of 25 per cent of the capital of its subsidiary. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in the sentence first, the words "seven" shall be deleted after the words "sevents" shall be added by para. 1, t. 1 and 7 100t. " and finally the fifth sentence is added to the fifth sentence which is disclosed publicly in accordance with art. 100. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and in it the words, which are individually below the thresholds of para. 1, t. 1? 4, 6 and 7 and para. The company shall be replaced by sales as a result of which the company acquires, transfers, receives or provides for use either as collateral in any form of assets; or transactions resulting in obligations for the company to one person or to related persons; or transactions resulting from which claims of the company arise to one person or to related persons; or transactions in the transfer of a commercial undertaking or in the transfer of rights, obligations or factual relations representing part of a commercial undertaking as well as transactions under para. 3, each one of which is below the thresholds under para. 1, t. 1? 3, 6 and 7 and para. 3.................................................................................. 6. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it in t. 2 is added at the end. 7. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8. 8. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 9 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 9. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 10 and in it: (a) in the text before t. 1 the word "the provision" is replaced by "the provisions" and "the word "the" is replaced by "the" and "the word "the" is replaced by "the" and "the" is replaced by "the" and "the" is replaced by "the" (b) points 1 and 2 are amended as follows: "1." in the case of the conclusion of bank loan contracts and the provision of collateral on them, and in the case of transactions carried out in the course of the normal business of the company; the sentence first shall not apply to the participation of interested parties in any of those transactions; 2. when undertaking liabilities and/or providing assets as collateral by the public company when granting or in connection with the granting of a subsidiary to a bank credit; first sentence shall not apply to the participation of interested parties in any of those transactions, with the exception of the interest between the public and the subsidiary. (c) c. 3 the words "from a company' shall be replaced by a subsidiary of a parent company'; (d) shall be established. 5. It's five o'clock. of transactions carried out in accordance with imperative provisions governing the company's specific activity. 10. So far, the Al. 10 becomes para. 11 And in it the words are said. 9, p. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 10, t. 1.................................................................................. 11. So far, the Al. 11 becomes para. 12 and in it the number 12. So far, the Al. 12 becomes para. 13 and in it the words are said. 9, p. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 10, t. The three words are replaced by the parent company and the two words are replaced by the parent company. 13. The creation of para. 14: In the case of a transaction under para. 10, t. 5, persons who manage and represent the public company shall notify the Commission within 7 days prior to its conclusion and shall disclose in accordance with art. 100th, para. 3 information on the grounds for the conclusion and terms of the transaction, including parties, subject matter, value, duration and participation of interested parties. In the event that disclosure of certain transaction data could result in significant damage to the company, the data shall not be included in the information referred to in the first sentence and that fact shall be disclosed. In the event of a failure to specify certain data given the nature of the transaction, this circumstance shall be disclosed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u84	We are voting paragraph 30 on the Commission report. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 30 of the Commission Report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u85	Under § 29, there is a proposal from a Member of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 114a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 the word "long-term' is deleted; 2. In para. 3 in a sentence third, after the words "in time', the words "to' shall be added. 3. In para. The 4th sentence first of all the votes submitted to the General Assembly shall be replaced by the two interested parties, a new sentence shall be created, a second sentence shall be inserted, and the second sentence shall become a third sentence and the words of the Committee concerned shall be replaced by the votes put forward to the General Assembly and, after the words of the Managing Authority, the votes of the interested parties shall not be included. 4. In para. 5 in a sentence first after the word "license" is added as well as under art. 114, para. 1, t. 6 and in a sentence second after the words "art." 114, para. 1, t. 1 point (b) is added. 6 (See Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with 5. In para. 6 words................................................................................. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u86	We are voting § 31 on the Commission report. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 31 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted. We interrupt for 30 minutes, continue at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u87	Dear colleagues, we're moving on. Please, the Quaestors, invite your colleagues to the Chamber so we don't have to call them with a name check. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva...............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u88	By § 30, there is a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal in the rest of it. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) A new item shall be created. 3: "3." the right of shareholders to make substantive proposals for decisions on any matter included on the agenda and subject to the requirements of the law, such as the restriction under art. 118, para. 3 shall apply accordingly; the deadline for exercising that right shall be until the debate on this matter has been terminated before the General Assembly's decision is voted on; b) Previous t. 3-8 becomes ct, respectively. 4-9. 2. In para. 5 after the word the commission is added to the regulated market on which the shares of the company are admitted to trading. 3. In para. The first sentence of the sentence is the words of the public company and of the regulated market in which the shares of the company are admitted to trading and the third sentence is created: The requested invitation shall state that the shareholders, who will vote by proxy, expressly empower the commissioners for the items on the agenda included in the order of art. 118, para. 2, p. 4. 4. In para. 8 shall be added after the words "in its language" to the call for the General Assembly. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 33. Proposal from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32, which shall become § 34: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The public companies shall have the right to pay 6 months and an annual dividend, if provided for in the statutes and in the case of the relevant application of art. 247a of the Commercial Law. 2. A new para is being created. 2 and 3: The following conditions are met: 1. there is a 6-month financial statement drawn up; a report has been prepared on the basis of the accounting information proving that the company has sufficient resources to pay the dividends and that their payment will not result in the company's debt to creditors, staff, budget and others; 2. the financial result for the 6 months period is profit and there is a decision of the general meeting of shareholders for distribution of profits. 3. the amount of funds that can be distributed in accordance with art. 247a of the Commercial Law must not exceed the total profit obtained as: (a) the current accounting result for the period from 1 January to 30 June of the current year; (b) undistributed profit from previous years; (c) the amount of reserves which are not prohibited by law or by the company's statutes; (d) the total amount referred to in points (a) and (b) shall be reduced by the losses carried over and the reserves raised in accordance with the requirements of art. 246 of the Commercial Law and/or the compulsory reserves under the company's statutes; 4. the public limited liability company does not have any commitments and outstanding liabilities which have expired before the adoption of the decision on the distribution of profits and after the payment of the interim dividends will be able to fulfil its obligations for the current financial year. (3) The right to receive dividends shall have the persons entered in the registers of the Central Depository as those entitled to dividend on the 14th day following the day of the General Assembly on which the annual, respectively the 6-month financial statement and the decision on distribution of profits is taken. Article 115b, para. 2 shall apply accordingly. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 4. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the list of approved active substances (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). The following shall be added to the list of 5. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 6 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the list of approved active 6. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 7 and in it, the words "3-month term' shall be replaced by "60-day term'. 7. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 8..................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33 which shall become § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u89	We are voting on paragraphs 32 to 37, including the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 32 to 37, including the Commission report, have been adopted. On behalf of the parliamentary group, the People's Representative Boris Vangelov has the floor for a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u90	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This month is 140 years since the massacre in Stara Zagora in the course of the Russian-Turkish Liberation War. Fourteen thousand and five hundred Bulgarians from the city and surrounding villages were killed, and ten thousand, mostly women, were kidnapped. Let us, the Bulgarian MPs, bow our heads to the memory of the victims and declare our unwavering will never again to allow such events! Today Bulgaria lives with the memory of this unprovoked atrocity. Bulgaria has found the strength to overcome and survive! May God judge the guilty, and we humans live in peace among ourselves. But today Bulgaria is facing the same danger! Yeah, in front of the same one! Because today, in the southeast of us, Islamism and new Ottomanism are rising. It's the same idea that slaughtered those innocent people! Yes, this same idea, although hidden behind modern words and manners and seeking dialogue with us, this idea today governs many places in the world, including Bulgaria itself. Therefore, we Bulgarian MPs are the front post not only of Bulgarianism. We must be the front post of humanity, of freedom and democracy. Our struggle in the name of these values is a struggle for Bulgaria. We are in this government to serve our country and to help freedom, humanity and democracy become permanent values for our neighbours as well. Today, especially in the months when we will take over the Presidency of the European Union, we Bulgarians are called to lead our region, our close and neighbouring countries to the values of Europe. If they keep you away from these values, we will make an effort, but above all we will have to protect Bulgaria. It is our calling today to protect our country and Europe from all radicalism and manifest ideas. We need to create a real sense of security in our countrymen wherever they are. We must ensure their dignity, their dignity to Bulgarian citizens, but also their dignity in quality of life. But first of all, we need to remember our story so that the terrifying moments of it don't happen again. God forgive the sacrifices! Eternal memory! [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Vangelov. Mrs. Saveklieva, we can continue. Proposal for the creation of a new § 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u92	Proposal by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev for the creation of a new § 35a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 38. ....................... 38........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 116c. 8 is amended as follows: The General Assembly may grant discharge to a member of a management and control body in the event of a certified by a registered auditor an annual financial statement for the previous year adopted by the General Assembly of shareholders and, in the case of the discharge of a member of a management and control body for the current year, a certified by a registered auditor and an interim financial statement for the period from the beginning of the current year to the last day of the month preceding the month in which the call for the convening of the General Assembly is announced.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u93	Present the other three paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u94	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 40. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 41.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u95	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 38 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report, as well as paragraphs 39, 40 and 41 on the Commission's report. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 38 to 41, including the Commission report, have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u96	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 39, which shall become § 42. .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 119 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 The Vice-President for write-off from the register led by the committee shall be replaced by the.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 30, para. 1, t. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act (b) c. 2 after the words c) create t. 6 and 7: It's six. the company is declared bankrupt; 7. there has been an enforced administrative measure under art. 212, para. 1, t. 10. 2. In para. 4 the words "leaded by the committee" shall be replaced by "under art." 30, para. 1, t. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. 3. In para. 5 the words "The Vice-President" shall be replaced by "the Financial Supervision Officer" after the word "Register" shall be added by art. 30, para. 1, t. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act and the words "al." 1, t. 1, 3................................................................................................ 1, t. One, three, three. 4. In para. The first sentence of the sentence shall be replaced by the Commission and after the word "Register" shall be added by art. 30, para. 1, t. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. 5. In para. 7 the words "Deputy Vice-President" shall be replaced by the Committee and after the word "Register" shall be added by Article. 30, para. 1, t. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. 6. In para. 8 the words "Deputy Vice-President" shall be replaced by the Committee and after the word "Register" shall be added by Article. 30, para. 1, t. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 44. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42, which shall become § 45. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 149 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 3 after the words the person who is added to it shall be the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person 2. In para. 5 sentence 2 is created: "In the case of acquisition of shareholder participation through related persons in the cases under para. 1 and 2 the controlled direct shareholder of the public company shall not exercise its voting rights in the General Assembly until a tender or the loss of control over it by the debtor under para. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u97	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 42 to 45, including on the Commission's report. Voted 118 MPs: 117, against no, abstention 1. Paragraphs 42 to 45 have been adopted. Here you are, Mr. Dobrev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u98	Mr President, honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal to return to § 17, because the Commission has made a technical error in § 17, item 17. 4, para. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u99	Is that an importer?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u100	No, the Commission's version of the last sentence is not responsible for the recovery of claims on bondholders in case of default by the issuer of its liabilities on the bond loan if the General Assembly of Shareholders does not take a decision by sentence first that they have been translated less than 80 per cent................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'm making a procedural proposal for this kind of editing in a room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u101	I shall first vote on the proposal to return to art. 17 on the Commission report. Please vote. Your motives have been set out by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev in the Commission report there is an error. 110 MPs voted: 106, none, abstention 4. We return to § 17 on the Commission report. That's in t. 4, para. 9. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u102	That's right, last sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u103	Last sentence after...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u104	At the place of that...................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u105	After the expression "sentence" first, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u107	After the first sentence, then we remove the comma and then we remove the...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u108	And we put them in their place, or we put them in their place.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u109	Please vote on the proposal. Before the previous comma, if we continue, if the General Assembly of the bondholders does not take a decision by sentence first or less than 80 percent of the amount due by the bondholders, according to the decision of the sentence first, amounts for implementation costs. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u110	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u111	They voted 123 MPs: 119, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We are voting again § 17 with the version made and adopted by plenary. Please vote on § 17 on the Commission report after the version adopted by the House. They voted 122 MPs: 119, none, abstention 3. Paragraph 17 in its latest version of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u112	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43, which shall become § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 150 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 7, p. 2 the figure "six" is replaced by six and the word "three" is replaced by "six" is replaced by "six" and "six" is replaced by "six" is replaced by "six" and "six" is replaced by "six" is replaced by "six" and 2. In para. 8 the words "six months' shall be replaced by "six months' and "six months' shall be replaced by "six months' and "six months'; Under § 44, there is a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 44, which shall become § 47: ss ss s s s s s In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted The members of the management body of the company shall submit the tender proposal to the representatives of their employees or to the employees, where there are no such representatives, and by the end of the working day shall disclose the information on the tender and the essential terms and conditions thereof under art. 100. Essential conditions within the meaning of the sentence first are: information on trade offerer; the offered price per share issued by the company... subject to a tender offer, and/or its ratio of exchange with shares under art. 149, para. 1, t. 1; the number of voting shares which the offeror does not own and is obliged to request or seek to acquire; information on the future intentions and strategic plans of the offeror concerning the company, the subject of the tender offer and a summary of the price justification. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 48. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u113	We are voting on paragraphs 46 to 49, including the Commission report. 125 MPs voted: 124, none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 46 to 49, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u114	Under § 47, there is a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 47, which shall become § 50: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 154 the following amendments are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) the first sentence shall be amended as follows: 151, para. Art. 1, respectively 153, para. 1, the offeror shall publish in one central daily or on the website of an information agency or other media, which may ensure the effective dissemination of regulated information to the public in all Member States, a notice of the tender proposal and its essential conditions under art. 151, para. 4 and submit the tender proposal in its final version of the public company and the regulated market on which the shares are admitted to trading. (b) the third sentence is amended as follows: the Public Company, the investment firm under art. 149, para. 12 and the regulated market in which the shares of the public company are accepted for trading shall disclose the tender proposal on their websites for the period of its adoption and the public company shall make public the tender proposal and the opinion of the management body of the public company and in accordance with art. 100th, para. 3. 2. In para. 2 words "Central daily newspapers" shall be replaced by "central daily" and the websites. "
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u115	We are voting § 50 on the Commission report. Vote 128 MPs: for 128, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 50 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u116	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 48, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 155 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 sentence fourth, the words "two central newspapers" shall be replaced by "one central daily" or on the website of an news agency or other media, which may ensure the effective dissemination of regulated information to the public in all Member States. 2. In para. 5 the words "two central daily newspapers" shall be replaced by a central daily or on the website of an information agency or other media, which may ensure the effective dissemination of regulated information to the public in all Member States. Under § 49, there is a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 49, which shall become § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 212 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: When it finds that supervised entities, their employees, persons who under contract perform management functions or enter into transactions at the expense of supervised entities, their liquidators or syndics, as well as trustees of the guarantors, acting or inaction, violate this law, its implementing acts, decisions of the committee or of the Vice-President, and where the exercise of control activities by the committee or by the Vice-President or the interests of investors, the Commission, the Vice-President, respectively, may: (b) c. 4 the words "or to stop' shall be deleted; (c) create a t. 10: ..10. to permanently suspend the sale or execution of transactions with certain securities to a public company if any of the following conditions exist: (a) for more than 6 months the number of members of the management or supervisory board of the company shall be less than the minimum laid down in the Law; (b) for more than one year, the company shall not be found at its public address of management and correspondence or other means of communication; (c) for one year the company shall not fulfil its obligations under art. 100n; (d) for one year the company shall not fulfil its obligations under art. 115, para. 1; (e) the company is in liquidation proceedings which has not ended more than three years since the entry of liquidation proceedings in the commercial register. 2. Allinei 4 and 5 are canceled. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u117	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 51, 52 and 53 on the Commission report. They voted 121 MPs: 121, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraphs 51, 52 and 53 of the Commission report have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u118	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 51 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u119	We are voting on the Commission's proposal for § 51. Vote 124 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to reject § 51 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u120	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 52, which shall become § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 213 words everywhere. 5, 6 and 7 5-7 and 10 Proposal from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 53, which shall become § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 221 the following amendments and additions are made. 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 2 words.............................................................................. 77b, para. 4 shall be replaced by......................................................................................... 77b, para. 5, the words "art." 100a, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 100a, para. 2 and 3................................................................................................ 100b, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 100b, para. 3, 5, 7 and 8 100g, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 100g, para. 4.................................................................................................. 115, para. The words "speech" first and second are deleted, the words "art." 115c, para. 2 and 3 and 3 shall be replaced by the following: 115c, para. 4 and 5................................................................................................ 116, para. 3, 5-7 and 11 116, para. 3, 5-7 116c, para. 2, 4 and 5 116c, para. One, two, four, five, and six. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1. 118, para. 3 sentence number two. (b) c. 3 words.............................................................................. 100a, para. 1, 4, 6 and 7 100a, para. 1, 5, 7 and 8 111, para. 2, 5, 7 and 8 111, para. 2, 5, 7-10 115c, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 115c, para. The words "seven" and the words "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven," "seven." The following points are inserted after paragraph 7 (b) (i) and (ii) of Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: (c) c. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 100d, para. 2, 3 and 4 100d, para. 2-6 and para. 8-10................................................................................................. 114, 2. In para. 5 words................................................................................. 114, para. 1, 3, 7 and 8 114, para. 1, 3, 4, 8 and 9
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u121	Statements? I won't. We are voting on paragraphs 54 and 55 on the Commission report. They voted 123 MPs: 121, none, abstention 2. Paragraphs 54 and 55 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u122	Under § 54, there is a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 54, which shall become § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1, t is created. 49: ..49. The code of the legal entity is an international 20-digit alphanumeric code allowing unique identification of the legal entities involved in the global financial markets. 2. In § 1e: (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The requirement to be presented in accordance with art. 100th, para. 4 of financial statements to the Commission under art. 100n, para. 1, 2 and para. 4 t. 1 (only in cases of compulsory independent financial audit under art. 37 of the Accounting Act), p. 2, 4 and 5, as well as Art. 100o, para. 1, 2, 4 and 5 shall also apply to persons operating regulated under the Energy Act and the Water Supply and Sewerage Services Regulation Act by the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory and Commercial Companies with more than 50 per cent municipal capital participation. The persons referred to in the sentence first draw up and submit their financial statements according to the applicable accounting base determined in accordance with Chapter 4 of the Accounting Act. (b) A new para shall be created. 2: The requirements of art. 100n, para. 7, p. 1 shall not apply to the persons under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it: (a) c. 1 the word "the year' is replaced by "the period'; (b) c. 2 the words..31 December.. are replaced by the end of the reference period.. and the number..7700 000.. is replaced by..2 000 000.. (c) c. The 3th number..300 000.. is replaced by..1 000 000...................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u123	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 56 on the Commission report. They voted 122 MPs: 120, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 56 of the Commission report has been adopted. [[National Representative Daniela Saveklieva wants the floor for procedure.]] Here you go, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u124	Dear Mr President, I would like to make a procedure to return to § 30 again, because there is again a technical error in the Commission's report. Paragraph 30 of the Commission report, i.e. 3 concerning the new para. 4 words in their subsidiary shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u125	To a subsidiary of its own company, should we think that it is a false repetition?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u126	Yeah, erase them.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u127	Please vote on the proposal to return to art. 30 on the Commission's report, on the basis of the reasons that you have just been presented with a reply in the Commission's report. We are voting for a return to § 30 on the Commission report. They voted 111 MPs: 109, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Now make the offer to drop the words.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u128	I'm making an offer in § 30...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u129	The expression "supposed to be a subsidiary'.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u130	Yeah, I'm gonna have to delete it. I'm gonna get rid of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u131	Please vote. We are voting for dropping the technical error made in the Commission report. They voted 122 MPs: 118, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on § 30 on the Commission report as it has now acquired, following the adoption of the removal of a previously committed technical error. Vote 113 MPs: 110 against 1, abstention 2. Paragraph 30 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u132	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55, which shall become § 57. The Commission shall support the importer's test for § 56, which shall become § 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 57, which shall become § 59.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u133	We are voting on the name of the section of the Office of Transport and Final Provisions, as well as paragraphs 57, 58 and 59 on the Commission report. Vote 127 MPs: for 126, against none, abstention 1. The term "Transitional and Final Provisions" and paragraphs 57, 58 and 59 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u134	Proposal by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev for the creation of a new § 57a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 60: ........................................................ Securities issuers admitted to trading on a regulated market until the entry into force of this law shall be required to submit applications for the issue of an identification code to the legal entity by 30 November 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u135	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 60 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. They voted 121 MPs: 121, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 60 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u136	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 58, which shall become § 61. The Commission proposes to create a new § 62: ..62. In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: P.O. Box 76.A. point 17 is inserted: Seventeen. shares offered under the conditions of a primary public offering under the legislation of a Member State for which a prospectus has been approved and published, providing for an obligation to request acceptance of the shares and to be accepted for trading on a regulated market in a Member State within a period of not more than 12 months from their issuance. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 178 is created. Not more than 1 per cent of the assets of an additional compulsory pension fund may be invested in securities under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 17................................................ 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) A new para shall be created. 8. Not more than 2 percent of the assets of the supplementary voluntary pension funds can be invested in securities under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 17. (b) The current para. 8-10 becomes respectively. 9-11.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u137	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 58 which, following the Commission's support, becomes § 61 in its report and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 62, in accordance with the Commission's report. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraphs 61 and 62 of the Commission report have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u138	Under § 59, there is a proposal from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev, made in accordance with Article 59. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in § 59, p. 1 is canceled. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 59, which shall become § 63: .............................................................................. In the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2: The person authorised to perform services and activities under art. 5, para. 2 and 3 shall apply for entry into the Commercial Register to the Registry Agency within 7 days of receipt of the licence. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. 2 is created t. 7. "7." it has made a decision under art. 77b, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34, para. 3, p. 3 the word "bank' is replaced by "credit institution'. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122, para. (a) a new point (b) is created: (b) with a decision under art. 77b, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, (b) the current letter "b" becomes a letter "in" (c). 5. Chapter 8 is created with art. 126a: ..Chapter Eight................................................................................................... Secret client Art. 126a. (1) For the purposes of supervision carried out in compliance with the provisions of this Law and its implementing acts, the Vice-President may entrust a third party with specific actions as a secret client. (2) The relations between the Commission and the person under para. 1 shall be governed by a contract and the contract shall be signed by the President of the Commission. (3) The contract shall specify the specific actions which the person under para. 1 accepts to carry out as a secret client, contract execution period, evidence of the actions carried out and their results. (4) Expenditure related to the implementation of the activities under para. One is on the commission. 6. In Chapter 9: (a) In art. 127: (aa) in para. 3 the number sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,ssssssssssss,sssssssssssssss,sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (bb) in para. 4 the number..20 000... 40 (c) in para. 6 words................................................................................. 3 and 5s shall be replaced (gd) in para. 7, p. 9 is amended as follows: 9. for violations of para. 3 and 4 out of £100,000. up to BGN 200,000 and in case of repeated infringement of BGN 200,000. up to 400,000 leva. (b) Art. 1 is created. 129a: Art. 129a. (1) By a decision of the Committee on a proposal of the Vice-President shall be made public websites offering the provision of investment services by persons not entitled to provide such services on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the Commission's website, an up-to-date list of the websites by sentence is maintained first. (2) The decisions under para. 1 shall be published on the Commission's website on the day of their adoption. The persons to whom those decisions relate shall be deemed notified on the day of publication and shall cease offering investment services on those websites. (3) If within three days of the publication of the decision under para. 2 the person did not stop the infringement for which the decision was taken, the Commission submitted a request to the President of the Sofia Regional Court to order all undertakings providing public and electronic communications networks and/or services to stop access to these websites. (4) The President of the Sofia District Court or the Vice-President appointed by him shall rule on the request within 72 hours of his entry; (5) The order issued by the court shall be published on the Commission's website on the day of its receipt. Undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services shall be obliged to suspend access to the relevant websites within 24 hours of publication of the order of the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u139	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 63 on the Commission report. Voted 118 MPs: 117, against no, abstention 1. Paragraph 63 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u140	Paragraph 60. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 60 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u141	We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 120 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 60 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u142	Under § 61, there is a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 61, which shall become § 64: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Special Bets Act shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 3 after the words "bet of money-free securities" the shares of collective investment schemes shall be added. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." claims, non-available securities and shares of collective investment schemes; (b) c. 8 is finally added as well as shares of collective investment schemes. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) at the end of the title, the shares of collective investment schemes shall be added; (b) in para. 1 after the word "book" the shares of collective investment schemes shall be added; (c) in para. 2 after the word "book', the share of a collective investment scheme shall be added; (d) the creation of para. 5. (5) The central depositary shall notify within one working day the management company concerned of any entry and deletion of a pledge on shares of a collective investment scheme. In the case of redemption of units of a collective investment scheme subject to a special pledge, consent shall be required by the hostage creditor in accordance with art. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u143	We are voting § 64 on the Commission report. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 64 of the Commission report unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u144	Paragraph 62. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 62, which shall become § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Commercial Law makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. the second sentence is deleted; (b) paragraph 2 is repealed. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 208 after the word "shown" is added. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) A new para shall be created. 6: The call for voting on non-personal bonds shall be exercised by persons holding bonds 5 days before the date of the general assembly of bondholders. (b) the current para. 6 becomes para. 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 63, which shall become § 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u145	We are voting on paragraphs 65 and 66 on the Commission report. They voted 117 MPs: 117, no opposition and no abstentions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u146	The Commission proposes to establish § 67 and 68: ................. In the Law on companies with special and investment purpose (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 30, para. 1 words "al." Two-sixs are replaced by two-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. Two and three. § 68. In the Financial Supervision Commission Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 15, para. 1, t. 5 words under art. 212, para. 4 of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u147	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create paragraphs 67 and 68 with their respective content, according to the Commission report. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraphs 67 and 68 of the Commission Report have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u148	Proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev for the creation of a new § 64. The Commission generally supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position as a new § 62. Proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev for the creation of a new § 65. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 69: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraphs 7 and 34 shall enter into force from 1 January 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u149	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 69, according to its Report. Vote 114 MPs: for 113, against no, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal for the creation of § 69 with its content, according to the Report, has been adopted and the bill and the second vote have also been adopted. Moving on to the next point: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE MOVE LAW IN THE ROADS. Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Please come in for a procedure. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u150	Madam President, I ask you to put to the vote a procedure for admission to the Hall of Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Krasimir Tzipov and Commissioner Boyko Ranovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u151	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kostadinova. Please vote on a tolerance procedure. Vote 108 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 2. Please invite the guests to the hall. I give the floor for the presentation of the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u152	Dear Madam President, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 754-01-33, submitted by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov on 30 June 2017. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 12 July 2017, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Traffic Act was discussed, No 754-01-33, submitted by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov on 30 June 2017. The meeting was attended by Commissioner Boyko Ranovski. The bill was presented by the MP Stanislav Ivanov, who stressed that in art. 167, para. 2, p. 2 of the Road Traffic Act is granted the right of the control services designated by the mayors of the municipalities to use a technical means for forced detention of the road vehicle for which the parking price payable is not paid until the price is paid and the costs of applying the technical means. It was claimed by the importer that there is currently no legal regulation of the actions in which that measure was applied, but the road vehicle stays with the technical vehicle after the expiry of the time indicated on a stationary road sign. As well as that, at local level, this gap is permitted by regulations, regulations and regulations for parking arrangements (with different names in different municipalities), which provide that after a certain period of time with a technical vehicle of type "scob" and/or at the end of the working time of the respective hourly paid parking area, cars can be forced to be moved. Another proposed amendment of the Law aims to facilitate the movement of road vehicles to public transport in cities. The change provides that, where there is a lane, especially for the movement of track vehicles, the movement of non-rail road vehicles, with the exception of vehicles from the main urban lines, is prohibited. In this direction is the proposed amendment of art. 19th para. 1 of the Law, according to which, when the railway road is situated on the road, the drivers of the non-rail road vehicles that are on it are obliged to release it as quickly as possible when approaching the vehicles from the regular city lines to miss it. During the debates on the bill spoke the MPs: Georgi Svilenski, Lalo Kirilov and Pavel Hristov. During his speech Mr. Svilenski expressed reservations about the proposed amendments to the law in this part and the need for them. On the part of the introduction of the bill, Mr. Stanislav Ivanov was answered that with the adoption of the proposed provisions a gap in legislation will be removed and that it will be possible to regulate the time for movement in large cities, which in turn would lead to a reduction of harmful emissions. Mr. Boyko Ranovski also spoke in support of the bill, which presented the opinion of the Ministry of Interior. It lists proposals for the improvement of certain provisions thereof. Following the debates held on the Draft and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 11 votes, 8 votes against the draft and 1 vote, Mr. Stanislav Ivanov proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Road Traffic Act, No 754-01-33, submitted by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov on 30 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u153	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirchev. There is a second report from this Commission, it is on the next bill. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u154	Dear Mrs. Chairman, honourable Members! I will present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 754-01-24, submitted by Boris Yachev and a group of MPs on 15 June 2017. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 5 July 2017, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Traffic Act was discussed, No 754-01-24, submitted by Boris Yachev and a group of MPs on 15 June 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of the Interior, and Commissioner Boyko Ranovski, Head of the Road Police Department, at the Directorate General of National Police. The bill was presented by the MP Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov, who stressed that its preparation is related to the need to develop a new regulatory act within the meaning of art. 174, para. 4 of the Road Traffic Act laying down the order by which the use of alcohol and/or narcotic substances or their analogues by drivers is determined. Another main objective, which is achieved with the bill, according to the importers, is the synchronization of the legal basis in Bulgaria with regard to the establishment of the use of alcohol and drugs by drivers, namely with the provision of art. 343b of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Bulgaria, according to which the composition of that crime is performed for a person who drives a motor vehicle after using drugs or their analogues. Thus, zero tolerance is laid down in our legislation on driving after drug use. The reasons for the bill indicate that in this case the driver's study aims only to identify the use of a narcotic substance (or analogue) without regard to the effect that has been achieved with regard to the driver. Such legislation has already been adopted in most countries of the European Union, in so far as, unlike the use of alcohol, in the use of narcotics, the type and manifestation of the effect are strictly individual and there is no common relationship between the concentration of the drug (in the blood) and the effect achieved (as a type and level of expression). The importers of the draft were of the opinion that there is a contradiction in the current legislation between the Criminal Code and the Road Traffic Act relating to the difference in the meaning of the used concepts under the influence of the Law on Road Traffic and after the use of the Criminal Code. This contradiction has become a prerequisite for creating a number of problems and misunderstandings in the application of the law, including the challenge of clearly proven use of drugs by drivers and their exemption from criminal liability. An example of the seriousness of the problem is also the existence of different interpretation decisions of the VCC arising from those differences in concepts. On the bill were received opinions from the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health. They express principled support for the bill, including proposals for editing certain texts from it. During the debates on the bill spoke the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Stanislav Ivanov, Spas Panchev and Alexander Paunov. The representatives of the Ministry of Interior said that the proposed amendments to the Law are appropriate. In this way, the terminology of the Road Traffic Act will be aligned with that of the Penal Code. At the same time, they also made a proposal to refine the provision of art. 125, t. 5. Following the debates held on the Draft and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 11 votes...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u155	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. There is another report from the same Commission. Please come in for a procedure, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u156	Dear Madam President, I allow myself to do a procedure in the manner of conduct. I am impressed sometimes, I have nothing against my colleague Ivanov, of course, many colleagues turn with the address Mrs./Mr. Chairman. The President is used only in one place in our... in the Additional Provisions, § 3. There it is written: The President, within the meaning of these Rules, is the chairman of the respective plenary sitting of the National Assembly. Please, let us work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and bring together the address to the person holding the meetings.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u157	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. I would like to ask my colleagues: let us stick to Mr. Panchev's remarks and procedure. Here you go, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u158	Madam President, honourable Members! Allow me to introduce you. ♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 754-01-37, submitted by Boryana Georgieva and a group of MPs on 5 July 2017. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 12 July 2017, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Traffic Act was discussed, No 754-01-37, submitted by Boryana Georgieva and a group of MPs on 5 July 2017. The meeting was attended by Commissioner Boyko Ranovski. The bill was presented by the MP Boryana Georgieva, who outlined its main objectives. According to the importers, the adoption of the bill will result in: increasing the collection of fines imposed with tickets, electronic tickets and criminal decrees; reducing the administrative burden on citizens and saving time to both citizens and the control body by giving the possibility of paying fines on the ground; reducing the likelihood that persons with foreign citizenship and driving motor vehicles (MSS) with foreign registration should leave the country before paying the penalties imposed on them on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. During the presentation of the bill Mrs. Georgieva stressed that under the current legislation of a driver who has not paid the fines imposed on him within the time limit and this was established when checking the road, his driving licence was revoked until the fines were paid in full. The proposed changes, according to the importers, provide for the possibility for all vehicles of the Ministry of Interior control authorities to be connected to the Automated Information System "Administrative and Criminal Activity" (AIS-AND), to install a POS-thermal device to collect fines on site. The bill also provides for an option for the payment of the fines, according to which the debtor can do so within two hours of the service of the act of compulsory administrative measure. With another part of the changes in the Law on Road Traffic is proposed and amendment of art. 172, para. 7, offering to remove only one plate with the registration numbers of the vehicle in case of infringement of art. 171, p. 2 letter (s) (not as indicated so far) to remove the two plates. According to importers, imperfection in the law will be removed because the movement of vehicles without signs virtually leaves no possibility to detect violations by a driver of such a vehicle. Changes in art. 42, para. 2, p. 1 refer to the lateral distance when ahead of bicycles and other two-wheel vehicles, offering to introduce a minimum distance of 1,5 metres. On the draft in the Commission, an opinion was received from the Ministry of Interior, which was presented to the MPs by Commissioner Boyko Ranovski. He stressed that in the preliminary assessment of the impact on the Bill it is indicated that the Ministry of Interior should make the cost of installing mobile POS terminal devices and training employees to work with them, wishing that these costs, as well as the value of the devices themselves, should be borne by service banks without being regulated in a relevant law such an obligation for banks, and without providing additional budgetary resources for these expenditure for the Ministry of Interior. There is also no provision for expenditure on the Ministry's budget to build an additional interface to the Information System by which payments to be made via the POS terminal can be individualised, as for the purpose of reporting the payment it is not sufficient to have received only an amount, but this amount should refer to the fines imposed by the relevant ticket, an electronic ticket or a criminal order and to be distributed as paid in the card of the particular driver to whom they refer. In the course of the debates on the bill took the MPs: Stanislav Ivanov, Georgi Svilenski, Andon Donchev, Valentin Milushev and Pavel Hristov, who said that he supports in principle the ideas for changing the Law on Road Traffic in this part, but because of the lack of technical readiness of the institutions will refrain from supporting the bill at this stage. Following the debates held on the Draft and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 1 vote, 1 vote against the draft and 18 votes, Mrs. Georgieva proposed to the National Assembly not to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Road Traffic Act, No 754-01-37, submitted by Boryana Georgieva and a group of MPs on 5 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u159	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev! The latest report is from the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Here you go, Mr. Tachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u160	Madam President, honourable Members! Let me introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 754-01-24, submitted by Boris Yachev and a group of MPs on 15 June 2017. At its regular meeting on 12 July 2017, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 754-01-24, submitted by Boris Yachev and a group of MPs on 15 June 2017. The meeting was attended by Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior. On behalf of the importer The bill was presented by the MP Boris Yachev. The main objective of the bill is to synchronise the regulations relating to the identification of alcohol and narcotics by drivers of motor vehicles. In the legislation in force there is a contradiction between those in the Road Traffic Act, where the expression under impact is used and the Criminal Code, in which the following use of the Criminal Code is recorded. This contradiction is a prerequisite for a different interpretation of the rules of application of the Law and is used as a basis for contesting the clearly proven use of drugs by drivers of motor vehicles and their exemption from criminal liability. As an example of contradictory caselaw are the interpretation decisions of the VCC (Case No 483 of 17 December 2015 in Criminal Case No 1488/2015 and Case No 116 of 8 August 2016 in Criminal Case No 34/2016).), derived from differences in used expressions. In the first interpretive Decision of the ICC, it is assumed that, following the detection of drug use in the blood, it is necessary to establish whether its behaviour has been influenced by their intake. In the second interpretive Decision of the VCC, it is considered that no specific concentration of drugs in the blood is required or evidence of inability to drive a motor vehicle. No funds are necessary for the implementation of the proposed amendments and additions. On the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, opinions were received from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior to support the proposed changes. It is claimed that the problems encountered in proving acts related to driving a motor vehicle after drug use will be resolved. The Ministry of Interior is proposing a revision of the editing. On the basis of the discussion held the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 18 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 754-01-24, tabled by Boris Yachev and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 15 June 2017, proposed the adoption of a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Road Traffic Act No 754-01-24, submitted by Boris Yachev and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 15 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u161	Thank you, dear Mr. Tachev. Reports from the Committee on Regional Development, Public Works and Local Self-government are not available on the bill submitted by Mr. Stanislav Ivanov. The report is also missing from the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order of the Bill submitted by Mrs. Rumyana Georgieva. An importer's opinion? Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u162	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposals of the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" for amendments to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Traffic are related to the need to develop a new regulation, regulation, within the meaning of art. 174, para. 4 of the Road Traffic Act, which regulates the order by which the use of alcohol and/or narcotic substances or their analogues by drivers of motor vehicles is established. The changes are designed to synchronise the legal basis in Bulgaria with regard to the identification of the use of alcohol and drugs by drivers of motor vehicles, i.e. art. 343b of the Penal Code of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard, our proposals are to make the following amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Act: amendment and supplement of the provisions of art. 5, para. 3, p. Article 1 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be replaced by the following: 102, t. Article 1 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be replaced by the following: 125, t. Article 5; 189b, t. 1 to which the expressions (s)/or (s) and (s) are added after use of the substances concerned. In accordance with art. 343b, para. 3 of the Criminal Code, the composition of that crime shall be carried out for a person who drives a motor vehicle after using drugs or their analogues. In this way, zero tolerance is laid down in our legislation on driving a motor vehicle after using a drug substance. In this case, the driver's study aims only to identify the use of a narcotic substance or its analogue, without regard to the effect achieved with regard to the driver, as a type and extent of expression. Such legislation has been adopted in most countries of the European Union, in so far as, unlike alcohol use, the type and manifestation of the effect are strictly individual to the designated person and there is no common relationship between the concentration of the drug in blood and the performance as a type and level of effect. In the current legislation, there is a contradiction between the Criminal Code and the Road Traffic Act, which is related to the difference in the meaning of the concepts used under the influence of the Road Traffic Act and the following use in the Criminal Code. This contradiction often becomes a prerequisite for creating a number of problems and misunderstandings in the implementation of the Law, including a prerequisite for contesting the categorically proven use of drugs by drivers of motor vehicles and their exemption from criminal liability. Contrary caselaw often leads to serious consequences and inadequacy in the application of the Law, requiring timely measures to be taken both to harmonise the related texts and to develop an adequate procedure and order in which to establish the use of drugs and their analogues by drivers of motor vehicles, namely in accordance with art. 174, para. 4 of the Road Traffic Act. The proposed amendments and additions do not require financial resources and legal changes proposed by the Parliamentary Group of.. United Patriarchs.... are in line with the applicable legislation of the European Union......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u163	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. Opinions of other importers? I won't. We're moving on to speeches. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u164	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I did not intend to speak, but I will explain my proposal in a few minutes. The first proposal from the proposals I have made to amend the Road Traffic Act concerns mainly the city of Sofia. With this proposal, we are allowing public road transport, the so-called "races" to move along the tram tracks, because this thing is currently prohibited. In this way, I believe that we will ease the movement in Sofia repeatedly, because you know that in the neural crossings where there are buses, they do not enter the intersections without being able to be missed to get out of them, clogging the movement. As trams travel along separate routes in most places, they do not have such obstacles. I therefore believe that this is a good practice that will work. The second proposal concerns all cities in the country where there is a "Zelenska" or the "Sin zone" for paid parking. It is about this: when his vehicle is fitted before 7 pm and the driver has not paid the fine by 7 pm, it can be repatriated. Because, honourable Members, otherwise the following paradox is obtained: if the driver does not pay the fine by 1900, the motor vehicle cannot be repatriated on the one hand. On the second hand, the clamp must be removed or, on the third side, the clamp left behind. If the clamp is left, we find it broken in the morning. For this reason, I am making this proposal for a change in the Road Traffic Act and giving the respective municipal administrations the right to repatriate these cars, which did not pay the fines due to the municipality until 19.00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u165	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u166	Thank you, Madam President. What I want to say is that in the Commission we discussed very carefully Mr. Stanislav Ivanov's proposals. However, the truth is that behind the good design for easing the movement, mainly in the capital city, as there is only rail transport in Sofia, there is actually an opportunity to carry out a number of traffic violations. One of our inspections, which we did, found that such a permit to move, including buses on the track, is not available in any other European country. In this sense, the proposal is contradictory. Thank you. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u167	You'll have the opportunity for a doppelganger, Mr. Ivanov. Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Second line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, the measure proposed by Mr. Ivanov could be useful for Sofia. At other times, there has been a theme in this House why not finally offer a whole new Road Traffic Act, which, after a big debate in society, after a debate in the Chamber, really... [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] In your right to the doppelganger, you will answer me. Indeed, after a large public debate, we should adopt a Law in which we do not import any small PIDs every week, because it speaks of a lack of vision in this area and of a lack of vision by the rulers in their legislative activity at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u169	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Mr. Angelov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Ivanov, it is normal to look for practices to look at other European countries, and not find typical Balkan ways for spiders to go constantly to pick up cars, to put braces and everything else, because this in no way looks good in any city in any capital. Your proposal, which concerns the cars on which the clamp was placed, but has not been paid the fine by 7 pm, to be repatriated, simply does not make any sense if the car does not interfere with the movement. After all, this man is not a criminal. He could have been something happened to him, anything could have happened. The fact that the state or municipalities do not collect their fines, we should not bother here in the National Assembly constantly with having braces, not having braces, climbing them with spiders, because this is absurd. You can't have a car that doesn't get in the way of traffic, put it on a spider, take it off, and then pay huge fines and parking. I am offering you, especially for this proposal, which concerns the repatriation of cars, to withdraw it, because we are really turning into a jungle, which is ridiculous, it is not normal, it is not European, there is no way this thing is going to happen. [[Private applause on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u171	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. For the doppelganger, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u172	Thank you, Madam President! Dear colleagues! I will not answer the first line, but the second line I agree that a new Law must be made. You know that there is work under this Law, we do not need to announce it every time there is a change in legislation regarding the Road Traffic Act. You know we're working. I hope that in the autumn session we will be able to bring it to the discussion in this House the three new laws that will be provided to your attention. Regarding Mr. Angelov's line. Mr. Angelov, there's no way to blame the DMV for repatriating cars, not cute and so on, because we all respect the laws. For cars that have parked in violation of the Road Traffic Act, which concerns the paid zones there are not repatriated cars during the day, they are just stabbed. But there are drivers who wait for the end of work hours, break the clamp and then leave in the car, and it is against those drivers that change. And it is dictated again by a decision of the SAC, which removed this rule, to be repatriated. Because all municipalities have currently included in the regulations the possibility of repatriation of spider cars, but because you removed it because it is not written in the Law, we add it to the Law and practice remains. That's not new. This is something that is currently being done in all the cities in Bulgaria and I do not see why we should debate in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u173	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. To speak, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u174	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Ivanov, for really three months we have been listening that there is a new prepared Law on Road Traffic, but we have not yet seen anything in black and white in the National Assembly. There is an idea for this Law to be divided into three parts, as it is The truth is that the Law on Road Traffic is the most frequently amended Law in Bulgaria. Who, when he comes to his senses, who, when he wakes up in the morning and dreams of something, someone powerful, when he gets beat by two bikers on the highway, and we at the Transport Commission every week are looking at changes to this Law. In relation to the changes you have proposed, there are three bills. I will comment on this No 754-301-33 by Mr. Ivanov and a group of MPs. I must say that there are proposals for changes in two articles, and I would describe them as an absolute mouse. There is not a single term in the proposals that corresponds to the terminology of the Road Traffic Act. We are under the impression that this Bill is either written on a knee or hasty, which is at least disrespectful to the National Assembly and to the Members of the National Assembly. Specifically on the proposals for amendment. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 MPs from GERB offer buses from the city and public transport in Sofia, because it is only about Sofia, to be able to move on sails designated for rail vehicles. Where's the problem coming from? If we allow this thing, after the buses from the city transport will immediately leave the routes. Apart from the bill, it is not regulated who will be the first to take advantage of these classes.... whether the tram or the bus. What do we do when two buses run into each other in a narrow precinct and they have to get away with it? Because on trams it is clear that there are two parallel tracks where there is no problem with the gap. In our view, these changes in this article create prerequisites for road accidents. Under art. 171 This change concerning a vehicle which is parked in violation of parking rules and is blocked by a technical vehicle type of................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'm not even gonna comment on working hours in a blue zone. The blue zone has a time period when it's paid, then it's free. This completely contradicts another point of Article. 171. There it writes the following:.Move a parked road vehicle without the knowledge of its owner or its authorised driver - when parked in violation of traffic rules in places marked with a stationary road sign or when creating a danger or making it impossible for other participants to pass.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What do we have here? Parking a car in a blue zone? The blue zone is designated parking spaces, meaning we have no violation of parking rules, and I think the municipalities have other options to collect their fines from incorrect paychecks, because these are incorrect paychecks, which at 7 p.m. did not release their SMS. And the law provides for such a penalty, namely the setting of a clamp. Therefore, both articles that are proposed to change this bill, we from the BSP will not support them. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u175	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. For lines? I don't see any lines. Next statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u176	Madam President, honourable Members! We are listening to changes in the Road Traffic Act, and there is really no deadline given for this Law. There is no telling how long this task force will work and how long it will take. It is therefore necessary to make proposals every week for amendment and addition to the Movement Act. We have tabled the present proposal for amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act with the clear awareness that we are indeed in the 21st century, in a century of electronization and increasingly working security and banking systems. The Ministry of Interior can't collect fines for traffic violations, and drivers have to get into situations to take a day off so they can go to the DMV or to a bank and to different counters so they can pay for their fines. Maybe on the Internet. To this end, we propose to put POS terminals into operation in all vehicles of the Ministry of Interior control authorities, which have a link to the Automated Information System The main objectives of these changes are: to increase the collection of fines on tickets, electronic slips and penal decrees imposed on the basis of the authorities authorised to carry out controls, to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and to save time on them and the control body, allowing for the payment of fines on the ground; to reduce the likelihood of persons with foreign citizenship and driving vehicles with foreign registration to leave the country before they have paid the penalties imposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u177	Colleagues, I beg you to be quiet in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u178	We also propose an amendment to art. 172, para. 7, specifying to remove only one plate with the registration numbers of the vehicle in case of infringement of Article 7. 171, p. 2 letter (s) and not as indicated so far, to remove both signs. This is practically the removal of imperfection in the Law, because the movement of vehicles without signs virtually leaves no possibility to detect a breach by a driver of such a vehicle. The third change that we propose is the amendments to art. 72, para. 2, p. 1 which refers to the lateral distance of bikes and other two-wheel vehicles by introducing a minimum distance limit of 1,5 m. Thank you. [[Applauses from "Volja" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Procedure, Mr. Ivanov? Mr. Ivanov, from the parliamentary group of BSP I will give Mr. Alexandrov the word to take turns and you will be after that. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u180	Madam President, I propose a procedure to extend today's sitting until the adoption and voting of this Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u181	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Please vote on the procedure made by Mr. Ivanov just now to extend the working time until adoption of this bill. Vote 137 MPs: 87, against 45, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Alexandrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! We will support two of the Bills. Understandably, the first one, which is ours, the second one, which belongs to colleagues from GERB, because there are really a lot of concrete things in their proposal, Mr. Ivanov. As far as I know, throughout the world, all capitals encourage the use of urban transport as a way to save harmful emissions that are emitted into the atmosphere. After all, one of the biggest pollutants is the automobile engines, and I've talked about it here more than once. We recently had a meeting with South Korea's Friendship Group, and we asked them: "How do you excuse me, you have achieved to be one of the most ecologically clean, even though your urban agglomeration is a 25 million city?" The answer was that with the promotion of urban transport. The inclusion of preferences for urban transport and the use of such roads is precisely such promotion. You know very well what happens in the Sofia valley or at least those from Sofia, those who are guests of Sofia, will understand, in the cold months, when the air falls to the bottom of the valley when there are some very serious blurs. Regarding the third bill, I have always encouraged the personal example and I believe that the personal example should be a leading example. When you offer something, it's nice to look first in your basket, then offer it to everyone else. We can't support him. Regarding only, perhaps, my colleague Ivanov, I suppose that we will have a very constructive dialogue between first and second readings, where colleagues will be able to make their proposals, and actually achieve the best possible working texts for everyone, because they concern absolutely all of us here in the Chamber, because at least we are almost all active drivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u183	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? I can't see. A statement, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u184	Madam President, honourable Members! I will take only and only under the bill submitted by my colleague Stanislav Ivanov, and in the way he was submitted and voted. I will individually address part of the motives and part of the preliminary impact assessment as part of which is most likely the very strange proletarian poet S.G. He won't be able to take the attitude, as his muse will be... there won't be any words for what's being offered. [[Radio.]] The bill. To the motives under art. 19 is listed as improving passenger safety. I have bothered to check for the last three years how many crashes have taken place in the city of Sofia, as this Bill, frankly, applies only to the city of Sofia, as there are railways only and only in the city of Sofia. I want to tell you that there have been three serious accidents, and about 20 passengers have resided in Pirogov. That's right, Mr. Ivanov, isn't it? [[Reply of MP Stanislav Ivanov.]] Regarding a reduction in traffic, our parliamentary group cannot agree either. How can traffic be reduced when on the track, where trams are moving, buses of urban transport and trolleys also begin to move? Traffic cannot be reduced! With what you are proposing, you will create transport chaos on two of Sofia's speed boulevards, namely Blvd. "Bulgaria" and "Bulgaria" Blvd. "Knyaz Boris." [[GERB lines.]] No, I quote what's written as an impact assessment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u185	We've read it all!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u186	Regarding the groups concerned, you have never explained how you will reduce the harmful emissions, given that the three types of vehicles are moving on the sails, the buses are not those air buses that you promised 2008 - 2009 to appear in Sofia. And my colleague quotes how everything in South Korea was ecologically clean and everything was fine. [[GERB's lines and laughter.]] It's all in the field of good wishes, and I urge you to take off your pink glasses and look at reality. In addition, you know very well that on July 5th, part of your colleagues, most likely by accident, did not attend the vote on the agenda. Most likely, they spoke of the conscience that the bill that you are proposing should not be voted on. [[Heckling]] I want to tell you that in Hall 356, in the square of Prince Alexander I, the walls are still ringing from the psychological beating you gave them in the hallway. Is that right, Mr. Ivanov? [[Replications and single applause. Awesome.]] That's right! I'll let you replicate me. Thanks, guys. [[Noise, laughter and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u187	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We expect a bow from Mr. Ivanov after so much applause. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, it is true that in the work of the Transport Commission many times we are looking at bills to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. I am convinced that we are only doing this in the interest of reducing accidents, easing traffic and making clear rules. The minister assured us that this Law, which is currently in force, is likely to be divided into three new laws in the autumn, one for cars, one for roads and one for road traffic. Then perhaps many of these issues that we are now discussing will find the right place in these bills. I congratulate my fellow Members from the United Patriarchs on their proposal. I believe that we are indeed late and it is imperative that the terminology on the use of drugs be aligned and that we do not allow intruders to escape because of some loophole in legislation, and that there is a strict order for both those who drive, use alcohol and those who use drugs. I think that the bill, which the colleagues from Volja....are proposing, also deserves to be supported. I've paid fines, I know how to wait at the DMV to pay, nothing that there's Internet payment, electronically and so on. In any case, it takes time, and the idea that colleagues propose with their Bill does not require much effort from the authorities of the DMV, the police and could really help in a more correct and timely collection of fines and penalties. Especially when I know that passengers who are passing through Bulgaria and are not from European countries, breaking and imposing a sanction, they leave the country on the same day and many of these fines are not paid. This will also enable people who violate and citizens outside our country to pay their fines in due time to have some control on our roads. Unfortunately, in my opinion, the proposal made by my colleagues by Volja "to have a side distance of 1.5 meters when driving two-wheel vehicles is somehow desirable, in my opinion, because there is no device with which the control body can determine whether this distance is accurate or less or more. In my opinion, such a change in the Law would give a little more opportunity for corruption among the authorities, because this could be really difficult to determine, but I find a resonant in the two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Are you referring to Mr. Panchev's statement? I can't see. Now Mr. Baichev and Mrs. Taskov after that. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u190	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to speak on the bill proposed by the Members of the National Assembly of the European Union by saying that we of the Bulgarian Socialist Party will support it, as the proposed amendments are correct, albeit terribly late in time. I would also like to say that in the current, current judicial system, there is a legal vacuum that lawbreakers benefit from and avoid prosecution and the corresponding sanction of the law. These legal omissions and legal tricks have successfully been involved in the legal pursuits of lawyers. I'm saying this as a lawyer. I've taken advantage of that right, too. This amendment will give relief to pre-trial proceedings and to judicial proceedings in the part that will be saved from the time, there is no need to prove notoriously known facts, funds will be saved, experts will not be appointed, but will also be saved from the expert evaluation because the property will be exempt from unnecessary expertise. I would also like to say that expert assessments are very difficult in terms of the conclusion of the property to give them, to make a single conclusion, since any expert assessment by an expert with regard to the intruder, when made, of great importance is the sex of the intruder, his age, his health status, kilograms and the type of drug used, as each drug therefore affects a different point of the nervous system and cannot make a general conclusion on the effects of drugs. However, this bill gives a clear signal to the public that we, as lawmakers and as a society, are against the use of drugs and then the management of a motor vehicle after the use of such a substance. On the other hand, each law has its own philosophy, purpose, way of achieving and realizing this philosophy. In the present case, I would like to criticise the way of achieving this philosophy, as, gentlemen Patriots, you are already ruling and working on a piece. This is already the third bill by the government regarding the Road Traffic Act, which enters the National Assembly. You should coordinate them, unite them into a joint project and enter together so that there can be a deeper study of the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u191	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Replies to Mr. Baychev's statement? I can't see. Mrs. Taskova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u192	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, on the occasion of the Bill, which has been tabled by the United Patriarchs, we will also support it, but rather my speech is in connection with the Bill which has been tabled by us by the. There is a sense of lawlessness and a lack of punishment in the Bulgarians because what good is being fined if you do not pay your penalty? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all those who will not support the Bill of Volja, we have found a pass in the Law and, if you read it carefully, you will see that the Law currently allows a car to move on the road, without registration plates, and for twelve hours at the moment. We have found this mistake and we propose to correct it together now. We do not understand why you do not want to accept it, and I am under the impression that this is just because it is a Bill of Will?! I also ask you to take a look at the supplement we are doing in connection with the cyclists, which is the idea of the Ombudsman, Mrs. Maya Manolova. We have the bicycle run to be at least 1.5 m. Are we going to reject this proposal by Volja. It is also because it is a Bill of Volja. I'd like to remind you that nearly 70 million. lv. are the funds not collected from fines from tickets, and electronic tickets and penal decrees. Most of them are for amounts of 20, 30, 50, 100 BGN. and are designated by the National Revenue Agency as irrecoverable. Let us at first reading allow this Bill to name and then, if you have better ideas, we will accept them and at second reading to help the state collect their money. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u193	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Pawnov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u194	Madam President, honourable Members, I particularly wish to address the importer of this change. Mr. Ivanov, we discussed in the Commission...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u195	Three of us are importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u196	You're the tallest and most prominent, so I'm addressing you, and so I'm referring to you as a convenient attacker. We discussed in the Committee on the movement of buses on the rails of trams because this applies only to Sofia. We found out that on the Graph Ignatiev there is no way to do it, because you can't get away with the tram by bus. [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u197	Please don't come into conversation with each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u198	The Sofia Council may decide to set up a line once you give this opportunity, why not leave a bus from there? What we discussed about the boulevard of Bulgaria is that the buses can start from there, first, at the boulevard of Bulgaria very soon the route was dismantled. And if you had that intention, maybe you would save now to do asphalting there so that the bus could move. New public procurement, new money first. Second, in winter, you know how the rails freeze. There are two buses lined up, the tram arrives with a longer brake road, the tram crashes one after the other, and what happens if they hit one bus? Do you know how many people are going to get into Pyrogov? So it's not a very good idea to move. Along the tram line there is a wide continuous one that forbids stepping on the tram tracks. If you break through what you are proposing, many other vehicles will start imitating buses and I believe that road accidents will increase and will not be reduced. On the other hand, what my colleagues from Volja....proposed, I think it is right to support it because it will increase the collection rate. The problem is the DMV, because in the question that was asked to the Commissioner, he replied that they do not have POS terminals in their ticket counters. That's where the problem comes from. So the first thing you need to do is upgrade the CAT with the POS terminals at the counters, and then you're already on the patrols themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u199	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote first Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 754-01-33, submitted by Stanislav Stoyanov on 30 June 2017. They voted 165 MPs: 91, against 54, abstention 20. The proposal is accepted and with this the Bill submitted by Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u200	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, I ask for a re-vote. Some of the colleagues failed to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-19.u201	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Please vote on the bill for Mr. Kostadinov's proposal. Vote 169 MPs: for 93, against 63, abstain 13. The proposal is adopted, with this the Bill at the first reading of Mr. Stanislav Ivanov. We are going to vote on the second Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 754 01-24, submitted by Boris Yankov Yachev and a group of MPs on 16 June 2017. They voted 170 MPs: for 170, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is accepted and with this the Bill of Mr. Boris Yachev. We are going to vote on the third Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 754-01-37, submitted by Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva and a group of MPs. Vote 166 MPs: 73, against 10, abstention 83. The offer is not accepted. The time of today's plenary session is over. Tomorrow we continue at 9:00 with a second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax Insurance Procedure Code with an importer of the Council of Ministers. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
