ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, a request for a hearing on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I propose to include him in the weekly program for the work of the National Assembly the following additional point: Hearing of the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov, Minister of Economy Emil Karaniklov, Minister of Interior Valentin Radev and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov in connection with the floods in Burgas region and their consequences. People's representatives Dragomir Stoinev, Zhelyo Boychev, Atanas Kostadinov, Manol Genov and Anton Kutev are importing on 26 October 2017. I suggest that this will be the first point for Friday. "October 27th." This Decision shall Just one explanation. Yesterday three of the ministers came and presented information. Do you support the importers, your request? I don't see them.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u2	If they've already provided information...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u3	They have to withdraw. Will you withdraw it? There are no importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u4	I'm here.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u5	Mr. Boychev, do you withdraw your request?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u6	We withdraw it as a request, but we won't stop dealing with it as a topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u7	As a request for a hearing, you withdraw it. Thank you. Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE COURT OF JUSTICE. The representatives Hamid Hamid, Danail Kirilov, Simeon Naydenov, Emil Dimitrov, Christian Mitev, Dimitar Lazarov and Anna Alexandrova are importing. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce you to the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please, before entering the second reading report, for a procedure for the access of the Deputy Minister of Justice Mrs. Desislava Ahladova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u9	Please vote on the proposal made. Vote 167 MPs: 158 against 4, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before presenting the report for second reading, I present to the attention of the MPs a letter from the Minister of Justice Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva to the President of the National Assembly Mr. Dimitar Glauchev: Dear Mr. Glauchev, On 20 October 2017, an extraordinary Council meeting was held on the implementation of the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary, convened on the grounds of art. 6, para. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The organizations that made the request are Bulgarian Institute of Legal Initiatives, Union of Lawyers in Bulgaria, Supreme Lawyers' Council, Association of the Judges in Bulgaria.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. At the meeting held, the Council voted by consensus to give a mandate to the Minister of Justice and the President of the Council to present to the National Assembly an opinion on proposed amendments to the Law on the Judiciary. According to today's voted work programme of the National Assembly for the time 25 October 2017, etc. 1 on the agenda for Friday, 27 October 2017, is envisaged the Second Voting of the Law on the Judiciary. On 26 October 2017, the annual EU ministerial meeting was held in the area of justice and home affairs within the framework of the Estonian Presidency of the European Union. Due to prior commitments to participate in the forum to which the Ministry of Justice is hosting, I do not have the opportunity to personally present the Council's opinion in plenary. In this regard, please familiarize the Members of the National Assembly with the opinion which proposes amendments to the Law on the Judiciary in the following sense: In relation to the amendments proposed by the Law on the Judiciary, submitted by a group of MPs on 5 October 2017, changes in the status of the posting of magistrates, the Council did not object to the proposals of the Members of the National Assembly to change the procedure for the posting of judges, prosecutors and investigators, but agreed that this should be done only after taking an opinion from the relevant General Assembly in the court, the department concerned or the college of the receiving authority of the judiciary. With regard to the proposals for further material stimulation of magistrates provided for in the Bill, the Council does not support the proposed texts in § 12 and § 15. The members of the Council consider that the current text of the Law on the Judicial Government............................................................................................ 233, para. 6, which provides opportunities for further material stimulation of magistrates and judiciary, is quite sufficient and no changes are required to give more rights to specialized structures in the judiciary. There should be no different mechanisms for material stimulation of judges, judicial officers and jurors, but the mechanism should be one. The Council supports the Minister of Justice's proposals for editing the proposed changes to art. 230. It is proposed to include an explicit text indicating that the decision to dismiss a judge is subject to appeal under the APC. The complaint shall not stop the execution unless the court provides otherwise. Respectfully, Tsetska Tsacheva, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u12	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u13	Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u14	Dear Mr. Glauchev, Mr. Chairman, this is the Bulgarian Parliament, not the Press Centre of the Minister of Justice. Mr. Kirilov is Chairman of the Legal Commission, not Press Secretary of the Press Centre of the Ministry of Justice. We're in a second reading procedure, and we can't read letters about who's been doing what, who's been talking to, and what he's been talking to. We are in a procedure of a very important law at second reading. Please follow the rules! [[Applause from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u15	Here we go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I proceed to the Report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Judicial Law, No 754 01 69, submitted by Hamid Barry Hamid, Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Simeon Georgiev Naydenov, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov, Christian Radev Mitev, Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov and Anna Vasileva Alexandrova on October 5, 2017, adopted at the first vote on October 13, 2017. The Law on the Judiciary was amended and supplemented by the Law on the Judiciary. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u17	We are voting on the text of the importer for the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 151 MPs: for 149, no objection, abstention 2. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u18	The Commission proposes to set up New § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 81, para. 1 sentences second and third are amended as follows: "Commentation shall be carried out in accordance with the conditions of art. 227. By way of exception, the posting may also be in a vacant position subject to the conditions of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission may, by way of derogation from Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u19	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 156 MPs: for 112, against none, abstention 44. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u20	Under § 1 of the text of the importer, there is a proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 87, para. 1 sentence 3 shall be created: The posting may, exceptionally, be in a vacant position subject to the conditions of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission may, by way of derogation from Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u21	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The history of this Bill is important. The chair of the legal committee has been confronted with an ongoing problem. The problem of the posting and the stripping of heavy courts and court formations that hinder the proper operation of our justice system. To this bill, all the parliamentary groups have approached with understanding, because it really must be done so that where there is a need, the necessary flexibility is provided. Why, though, does it come to this problem? When a few years ago the legislator decided to severely limit the possibility of secondment, there is a reason. The reason is that sometimes it was so that through the posting, the posting institute surrounded the competition beginning. There were doubts about sending comfortable judges to a convenient location. Accordingly, awkward judges are removed where they interfere with someone. That is why the legislator has chosen such an approach. In order for it to work, however, there had to be a regular and rhythmic holding of competitions that could provide and place judges where they were needed. In the last Supreme Judicial Council for one reason or another, this did not happen and we faced a situation where we needed to go back to some extent and reopen the possibility of posting. All this well so far, but the importers themselves understood very carefully that the possibilities for circumventing a competition should not be reopened and that is why they had offered and we supported, and we would gladly support again an element of guarantee, and it is contained in point. 2 of the relevant paragraph, namely: before the posting is taken into account the opinion of the General Assembly of Judges of the relevant department where the posting will take place. This non-binding opinion allows it to be included in the process and the court that will accept its seconded colleague so that it can be clear to all and transparent that this court really needs people and people with the relevant competence. In the course of the discussion at second reading, a proposal of the People's Representative Hamid appeared, according to which this point should be dropped and unfortunately for us the Commission supported it, so at the moment we propose to open up the possibility of secondment, but without this elementary guarantee against possible abuse. We therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, and, in this sense, we are joining the Council's opinion on the implementation of the updated strategy that we have just heard, to leave the text as it is by importer. This text is consensual. It was discussed and we would be happy to support it. However, we cannot support the text without the corresponding guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I take the floor precisely because of the objection made by my colleague Hamid what this Council is, and whether or not the Chair of the Legal Committee is a press officer of the Council...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u25	Apparently not.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u26	To get you back to what happened to the Legal Commission. We were both there. There were senior representatives of the judiciary. The chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council was also present. And let's remember how you feel about your proposal to drop para. 2 not only in this paragraph, but also in the next 5, 6, 7 and 8. They are against, and are against, because the views of the judges of the upper court give a lensism and there is no way that the chairmen, the administrative directors of the sender and the receiving court can agree when the opinion of a broad community is taken, such as the judges, the General Assembly of the judges of the upper court, these are the people who have exercised control of the judicial product, the decisions of the future judge who will be seconded. My suggestion is to stay, that is to restore al. 2, just like my colleague Zarkov said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Do you have a line, Mr. Hamid? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Milkov, Dear Presser of the Minister of Justice!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u29	Mr. Hamid, please be more respectful to the MPs!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u30	Obviously you were at these councils, but I would like to remind you that more than a year ago, led by a wild populism, by a group that is no longer in the Bulgarian Parliament for universal happiness, we blocked the work of the judiciary. Then we objected that, in this way, with this total ban on posting, and as with this regime it will be so that the competitions will continue for more than one year. With the appeal of the entire procedure, it's been more than two years. I made these proposals with a clear awareness that we should do something to unblock the activities of the judiciary, because there are prosecutions, and there are courts now without any prosecutors and without any judge. You were at the meeting with all the administrative leaders of the appeals courts and the prosecutors of appeals. All these proposals are the result of their proposals. That's not something I made up myself. This is the request of the entire justice system. I see no reason for the administrative supervisor, any court or prosecution, to take the opinion that you are talking about. There is no ban, but to oblige him to wait for this opinion, which may not come and not be able to carry out a necessary posting or this position to come only after this need is dropped, I think it is far-fetched, and otherwise there is no obstacle for him to take the opinion of whomever he wants.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u31	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Milkov, come on in for your douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr Hamid, with respect and understanding to your proposal to unblock the posting. We support your proposal under para. 2. With regard to this opinion, it is not a formalised procedure. These general meetings shall not be parliaments which shall be convened in plenary once a year. Even in the VCC you were told that every week there is such a General Assembly. The other, which is as an argument against what you said, well, of course, that the executives will aim to determine them. We must, however, see beyond this conversation only with the administrative leaders and it is to hear the opinion of the judges of the upper court, again I say, who have exercised control of the judicial product created by the judge proposed for secondment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. To speak, the people representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Indeed, the speeches and the lines so far have largely revealed the debates we had in the Legal Committee on this matter. I would like to emphasise the following: in no way is the serious step we have taken in relation to judicial self-government limited or in no way disturbing the manifestation of self-government in courts. What are the concerns about the recording that was originally an importer text? The concerns are that a process that should have flexibility and adequacy can be blocked. No one shall restrict, in any way, the executives to take the opinion of the general meeting concerned. The long debates have also clarified the following: here comes the opinion of the General Assembly of the receiving court - probably of the upper court - that is, this is a position that is largely preemptive. It concerns conjecture. It is also likely that it concerns subjective preferences or denials, because the judges of the court did not work with all the judges who could be seconded by the lower court. It is precisely to ensure justice in this case that we do not introduce such a mechanism at a review of the receiving authority. The debates also pointed out something else, as Dr. Milkov said earlier. These are not formal meetings. In them we do not have a written procedure for quorum, how to decide, how to vote. And I would ask all my colleagues, if these six or seven judges from the magistrates of the receiving court were to have personalities and preference disputes, why should we bring into this dispute and the administrative supervisor? In this case, disputes could indeed, in the short term of the posting, only embarrass the magistrate who will go and be posted. Therefore, colleagues, with our conviction that we maintain the principle of judicial self-government, but in exceptional cases, only one type of secondment, only one type of secondment, we leave to the discretion of the administrative director of the receiving court to decide to take or not to take. Can he take the stand? How long is this gonna take him? Technically and legally, I therefore objected to the supreme judges who were present in the debate, I will say the following: colleagues, why only at the General Assembly of the receiving court, and why not also the General Assembly of the sending court, because there we also have forms and elements of preferences related to experience, qualification, and distribution of cases. If you take the busiest judge from the lower court, but the busiest and posting him above, all the huge volume of his cases, and may also be in another specialization with the cases of his colleagues in the ward will be reassigned to the other colleagues. They won't want this particular colleague to be posted. Let's not absolutate if the principle makes sense. Let us not go beyond its meaning in an excessive formality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, yes, let's not absolutate the principle. This provokes my reply to you because indeed the difficulties you have described are precisely the difficulties that make the posting of a magistrate something extraordinary. These are precisely those difficulties that have led the legislator to severely limit opportunities for any secondment. This is always a problem for both the sender and the receiving court. But why do we insist on calling it that procedure anyway? First of all, I don't understand the blocking argument. The judges who expect their colleague because they are overloaded because there is an unoccupied state or because the work comes in too much they need. They have no reason to block this decision. They are actually collected informally, often, regularly and as recorded in the text of the new para. 4, their opinion is simply taken into account. What do we do with this text? In my opinion, we provide their information. We do not underestimate in any case the decision of the administrative supervisor, but let those who will work the next few months with the new colleague be informed of what lies ahead for them. As for our argument for subjectivity, yes, there is indeed a subjective element, there would always be one, however, in the assessment of the administrative manager. Even more pronounced, as this subjectiveism is his own and his own, and he decides. Let us at least ensure a process, an opportunity in which the administrative manager has the obligation to inform the people whose professional staff will increase over a certain period of time. This is the purpose of this paragraph, and it would rather help to reduce tensions, because you know that under this type of traveling tension there is often, it affects both the receiving court and the magistrate who goes to help, and very often there is no basis in it but gossip, rumours and various coulomb speaking. Let this talk take place in a general meeting of the respective College! That would be good for everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleague Kirilov, I do not agree with your speech, as it clearly explained to us the norm of the proposed new para. 4, namely that this norm is imperative. The opinion of the General Assembly of Judges shall be taken into account. There isn't any operational autonomy here! That is to say, what this General Assembly expressed in practice, the President of the Court in question, in the case of the Court of Justice in the case of the norm of para. Four, you have to comply with him. Given that, as you said, there are no procedures, but you have failed to note that there is no time to convene this general meeting, the question is when will this opinion be issued, first? Secondly, in this period, until it is convened, in practice it is not going to happen, there will be no way in this version of the norm, and even more imperative character and possible decision, in which, for some including subjective reasons, the General Assembly may decide to bless the administrative head of the receiving court, in practice to prevent a judge from being assigned to it entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u39	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there a third line? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u40	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I'm taking my third line because of the second line. Mr. Kirilov, you explained to us that this is an imperial norm right, but which does not at all mean that the opinion of the General Assembly determines who is the judge. Of course, only the opinion is taken, and the discussion and decision remains with the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u41	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Mr. Kirilov, come on in for the douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Members replicating! I'll try to keep the duplicate as short and tight as possible. I thank Mr. Mitev for the clarification in view of the nature of the norm by importer of para. Four, as it was. The text is: the opinion of the General Assembly of the Judges of the relevant Chamber shall be taken into account before the Chair. I also accept that it is imperative that there be such an opinion. Yeah, there's a lot of editorial possibilities here. You can edit the norm from imperative to operative. I'll put some lines together here. Look, colleagues, just a year ago we were the most jealous and we're still the most jealous followers of judge's self-government. And believe that we would also disagree with its limitation if it were essential. We wouldn't agree with his limitation! However, I think, and here I will repeat what I said that we need to be objective in the analysis, that we need to be precise in the analysis, and in this case we need to give the authority that has the responsibility this is the administrative supervisor, to give him the power to take a decision including to exercise good management practice if he decides. I am convinced that most executives would make a decision at the College General Assembly as long as they have such an opportunity in view of time or in view of the specific situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 2 on the Commission report. They voted 136 MPs: for 101, against 2, abstention 33. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u44	Paragraph 2 "Instruction text'. Proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid by the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty The Commission supports a proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94, para. 1 sentence 3 shall be created: The posting may, exceptionally, be in a vacant position subject to the conditions of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission may, by way of derogation from Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u45	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 3 on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 131 MPs: for 131, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u46	Paragraph 3 "Instruction text'. Proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid by the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100, para. 1 sentence 3 shall be created: The posting may, exceptionally, be in a vacant position subject to the conditions of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission may, by way of derogation from Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, decide to
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u47	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 4 on the Commission report. They voted 132 MPs: for 131, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 4 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u48	Paragraph 4 "Instruction text'. Proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid by the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100e, para. 1 After the words of the Court of Appeal, a Judge from another district or district court with the rank of Judge in a court of appeal shall be added to the judgment of the specialized court of appeal and a sentence shall be created second:...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission may, by way of derogation from Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, decide to grant aid under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to the aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2-9.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u49	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 5 on the Commission report. They voted 134 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 33. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u50	Paragraph 5 "Instruction text'. Proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid by the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 107, para. 1 sentence 2 shall be created: The posting may, exceptionally, be in a vacant position subject to the conditions of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission may, by way of derogation from Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u51	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 6 on the Commission report. Vote 128 MPs: 99, against 1, abstention 28. Paragraph 6 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u52	Paragraph 6 "Introduction text'. Proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid by the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 107b, para. 1 sentence first, after the words "supplied rank', a new sentence shall be inserted:.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission may, by way of derogation from Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, decide to grant aid under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to the aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2-9. " and the previous sentence second becomes the third sentence. "
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u53	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 7 on the Commission report. They voted 130 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 28. Paragraph 7 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u54	Paragraph 7 "Instruction text'. There is a proposal of the MP Hamid Hamid Hamid by the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115, para. 1 sentence 3 shall be created: The posting may, exceptionally, be in a vacant position subject to the conditions of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission may, by way of derogation from Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u55	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 8 on the Commission report. They voted 129 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 27. Paragraph 8 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u56	Paragraph 8 "Instruction text'. There is a proposal of the MP Hamid Hamid Hamid by the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123, para. 1 sentence 3 shall be created: The posting may, exceptionally, be in a vacant position subject to the conditions of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission may, by way of derogation from Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u57	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 9 on the Commission report. Vote 128 MPs: 99, none, abstention 29. Paragraph 9 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u58	Paragraph 9 "Introduction text'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 147 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, t. 1 (in the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second A prosecutor from another district prosecutor or a junior prosecutor may also be in a vacant position. Internship over one year may also be posted to a free office subject to the conditions of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 (d) and 2 (d) may also be in a vacant post and shall be replaced by a prosecutor from another district prosecutor or a junior prosecutor with an internship over one year may also be posted to a vacant post subject to the conditions of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission may, by way of derogation from Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, decide to grant aid under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to the aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Two-niner. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The Prosecutor General may post prosecutors and investigators from all over the country: 1. in the event of the impossibility of secondment by the order of para. 1, t. 1 and 2; 2. exceptionally... and in a vacant position, subject to compliance the terms and conditions of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u59	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 10 on the Commission report. They voted 126 MPs: 122, against 1, abstention 3. Paragraph 10 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u60	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11. Under § 11, there is a proposal of the MPs Emil Dimitrov and Anna Alexandrova in accordance with Article 11. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 11, which becomes § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 227 the following amendments and additions are made: Mr. Chairman, there's been a technical error here. In the report it says point 2 and it is point 1. "1." A new para is being created. 2: The first one shall not apply when a judge, prosecutor or investigator is seconded to a vacant post. 2. Previously on AMC's... 2-8 becomes respectively. 3-9.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u61	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 11 and 12 on the Commission report with the clarification of the points, as made by the parliamentary platform. They voted 133 MPs: 105, none, abstention 28. Paragraphs 11 and 12 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u62	Proposals of the MPs Danail Kirilov and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposals. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Article 230 is amended as follows: Art. 230. (1) In the cases referred to in art. 132 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, when a judge, prosecutor or investigator is brought intodictment, the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council temporarily removes him from office until the criminal proceedings are closed. (2) Where, outside the cases referred to in para. 1, a judge, prosecutor or investigator shall be charged with a common offence, the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council may remove him from office until the criminal proceedings have been completed. The College may hear the judge, prosecutor or investigator before taking a decision. (3) The period of suspension of office in pre-trial proceedings shall not exceed the period laid down in art. 234, para. 8 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. For the period of suspension from office of the judge, prosecutor and investigator, remuneration shall be paid in the amount of the minimum wage. (4) Upon expiry of the term referred to in art. 234, para. 8 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and in the event of suspension of criminal proceedings, the suspended judge, prosecutor or investigator may request the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council with a decision to restore it to the post held. The refusal shall be subject to appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (5) The request for suspension under para. 1 and 2 is made by the Attorney General on a proposal from the monitoring prosecutor and is motivated. (6) Where, in respect of a judge, prosecutor or investigator, a measure of non-reserved detention has been imposed, it shall be deemed to be suspended from office from the date of entry into force of the judicial act granting the measure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u63	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I will not support this proposal, which is supported by the Legal Committee. The purely formal proposal does not, in fact, fall within the scope of the bill under consideration. 230, which is not subject to consideration and discussion within the framework of this amendment and supplemental procedure of the Law on the Judiciary. What is proposed and what do colleagues change with their proposal? The current text of art. 230, para. 1 says the following, and I quote: "When a judge, prosecutor or investigator is involved as a defendant for a deliberate crime of general character, the College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall suspend him until the criminal proceedings have been closed. " Here is the main difference, the main change proposed by the amendment of art. 230, namely to remove from office a judge, prosecutor or investigator only when committing a crime in connection with the performance of his function as a judicial authority. In practice, what does that mean, colleagues? That if we accept this amendment, tomorrow, if a magistrate, God forbid, commits an exemplary road accident after the use of alcohol or tranquilizers, he will not be automatically removed from office. We will have an assessment that will be carried out by the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council, which may hear from the magistrate, may not hear from him. And what kind of signal are we gonna give the public? That, in practice, magistrates, who should normally have high professional and moral qualities, after committing such an act, can enter a courtroom, legalize and decide human destinies. For me, such authorisation is unacceptable, even more so, that not enough time has passed since the last amendment "July 2017" when this automation of removal was introduced in the conduct of such criminal acts, for which, as has been clearly said in the text so far, and in the proposal for an amendment, there are sufficient guarantees to protect the rights of the respective magistrate indictment. So to me this is unacceptable. I think we should give enough time to see if the amendment that we have made in July is inappropriate and only then should we move towards changing the provision of art. 230. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u65	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The editing of art. 230, this mistake that we made a few months ago and the texts that our parliamentary group did not support are now back on the agenda, and for good reason. We need to recall the opinion of the Venice Commission, which says that the old article. 230 of 2016, which is almost identical to what we are looking at now, does not provide sufficient guarantees for the judges' self-government, sufficient guarantees for the independence of judges. In this sense, art. 230, which we are currently discussing, is a step in the right direction. From our point of view, it should be even more precise and to a greater extent guaranteed, as the term under art. 234, para. 8 in the fourth paragraph of this text is not sufficient. It is quite long and an appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code is not provided for either para. 2.. something that we believe should have happened. Regarding the speech of the speaker before me, I think that we should not cast a shadow on the authority of the judges, because the judges themselves, their respective College, will never allow such a stain to be cast on them. I think they can take responsibility for their college well enough. At the same time, if we do not take decisive steps in this direction and do not respect the legitimate opinion of the Venice Commission, we put at risk the autonomy of the judges in Bulgaria. In fact, any judge can be shot at any moment if he is not comfortable in this way. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u67	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. The line, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague Bozhankov, I cannot agree. I couldn't agree to it for a couple of reasons. Firstly, yes, the Venice Commission has given a recommendation in such a sense, but I do not think that any recommendation of the Venice Commission should be accepted uncritically by the Bulgarian Parliament. It is unlikely that the Venice Commission can imagine that there are cases that are made public to the media here, I will not dwell on them, on magistrates who, after drinking alcohol, carry out an appropriate act.......................... whether it is an administrative offence or a crime, and then legalize afterwards. And in addition, I do not think that there is any harm in judging self-government in any way. I don't see what it is. Where did you see a violation of the judicial self-government in the current version of the provision of art. 230. There's no such thing. Moreover, I think that you should listen a little more to the voice of the Bulgarian citizens, the voters, who are not increasing every day, but reduce their confidence in the judiciary and with similar editorials, with similar provisions of the proposed amendment of art. 230, it is not in the interests of society or magistrates. I believe that there is enough and in its majority over 99% of the Bulgarian magistrates will not fall into the hypothesis of para. 1 of art. 230 in his current version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u69	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Bojankov? You're giving up the backrest. Any other speeches? Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor. Before starting Mr. Kirilov. Dear colleagues, the Balkan guests are students from the University of Plovdiv. Let's welcome them! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honored guests! I will allow myself, as one of the proposers of this text, to say the following. I, I suppose, and my colleague Mrs. Alexandrova, we are convinced of the rightness, in the sense, of the grounds of the current article. 230. We accepted it recently. We explained it to the Venice Commission. At the Venice Commission, our position was as follows: we should not initially say that prosecutors are dishonest and that they are without reason pursuing corrupt judges, we cannot say that judges are the primary victim of prosecutions, that they are by definition conscientious. In any case, however, to consider that if he committed a crime, he should not be law-abiding. It is a part and element of society's trust in our justice system. Also, let us not forget that the sentence for the guiltyness or innocence of the magistrate against whom an accusation has been brought is decided by one kind of magistrate, it is decided by the court, so that judges should not initially believe that this regime protects or restricts them in their legal capacity to defend them. As you know, the Venice Commission report came out. In the final part there is a brief commentary on the amendments to art. 230, in the sense that colleagues of the Venice Commission are concerned about this text. In this situation, Minister of Justice Mrs. Hamid, I have the opportunity to refer again to Mrs. Tsacheva's letter. [[Radio.]] Mrs. Tsacheva sent a letter to the Committee on Legal Affairs with this proposal, which I and my colleague Alexandrova adopted and did, and I stress, beyond the requirements of the Rules. It is outside the scope of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary adopted at first reading. However, we have put it to your attention. However, in view of the subsequent debate, including in the Council for the Development of the updated strategy, colleagues, I stress my deep hesitation as an importer whether or not to withdraw this text. So, the more we strive to meet the requirements, including the colleagues from the Venice Commission, still inside Bulgaria, we will find a civil organisation of judges who will say: well, yes, yes, but not well enough, could even better! This debate really deserves radical measures, deserved to withdraw these texts. We won't do it! We will not do so mainly in order to respect the European commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria and our legislation. If this proposal is accepted, we will need to edit a reference. If we do not accept this proposal, we will not make an editorial proposal to correct the reference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kirilov, since the current version is very close to the one from 2016, I have a question and I am really interested in your opinion: has the 2016 version created problems in the judiciary? I'm trying to find out if the one we have from a few months ago, yes, we don't have any practice on it, as Mr Hamid said, but did the one from 2016 create cases of judges who have remained untouchable to stay at the editorial office a few months ago?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u73	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u74	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, you are putting us in a very difficult situation as you are submitting a text, then you are speaking against the text, whose importer you are, which comes from the Minister of Justice, and I feel uncomfortable protecting the Minister of Justice from you or attacking you. I will therefore tell you what we think: we did not support those amendments in June 2017 and not because we believe that prosecutors will abuse and remove judges, or vice versa. That's not the point. The point was, in the version of art. 230 previously there was a mechanism, that is to go to the SJC, the Supreme Judicial Council to decide whether this judge, given the accusation or the misdeed he committed, may continue to sit or not. And the cases are pretty much anecdotal. They know each other. When the judge is found to have been driving intoxicated and is looking at these types of cases, he is naturally unable to, but in other cases there is no obstacle to continuing to work. And the current version of art. 230 to a large extent the one proposed by the Minister of Justice goes back to that principle and could therefore be supported. On the other hand, you can't be mad at people who say that editing is not that good and can be better. And these are not NGOs alone, and the Supreme Judicial Council also had serious... [[Heckling]] A representative of the Supreme Judicial Council also had serious...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u75	Only by the Union of Judges!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u76	In my opinion, we must, however, take less into account the opinion of the Venice Commission than our common understanding, clearly, that it is necessary to find the right text. Now, as proposed, art. 230 is more right than what we did in July, according to us. And that is why I do not know, but we will abstain on this text because it has created confusion and we no longer know whose political will is behind it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. The third line is the people's representative Hamid Hamid Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Kirilov, from your speech I understand that you do not support the text, you do not support it, but you will leave it and will not withdraw it just out of respect for our international partners and the insistence of the Venice Commission. Have I understood correctly, to tell me? And will you proceed from here on with the same arshin on the repeated and persistent recommendations of the Venice Commission, the OSCE and the Council of Europe under the Election Code, where very strongly and already very strongly put the issue of agitation in a language other than the Bulgarian one?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u79	You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Members! We cannot advise the opposition on how to vote. This is a matter of your decision and judgment. What I have been able to do in this case is to put out the most comprehensive and I stress the sincere, our argumentation, so you decide how you will vote. Regarding the questioning of Mr. Bojankov, Mr. Bojankov, I have no data, personally I have no data from the moment of action of art. 230 of its previous version so far may have arisen a case, a problem which has been a burden or has remained unresolved by the Supreme Judicial Council, but let us still consider that the judiciary is independent and neither I nor you can claim that we have some comprehensive view of specific cases there. With regard to Mr Hamid's reply to Mr Hamid, we have always been consistent in supporting European principles when it was possible to apply them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u81	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 13 with its respective content, in accordance with its report. Please vote. We are voting § 13 on the Commission report. They voted 123 MPs: 75, against 20, abstention 28. Paragraph 13 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u82	Dear Mr President, since this proposal has been adopted, I am making an editorial proposal in the following sense: a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 231 words everywhere. 230, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 230, para. The following information shall be provided in
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u83	Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal to create a new § 14 with the following content: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 231 words everywhere. 230, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 230, para. The following information shall be provided in Please vote. Vote 128 MPs: 121, no objection, abstention 7. Paragraph 14 with its content, as presented to you by the parliamentary platform, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u84	Paragraph 12 "Instruction text'. A proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 233, para. 6 sentence first the words... can be deleted and a sentence is created second: The Courts of Appeal of the Specialized Criminal Court, the Specialized Criminal Court, the Prosecutors of the Appeals Specialized Prosecution, the Special Prosecutor's Office and the investigators of the Specialized Prosecution Office shall receive an additional remuneration of an amount established by the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council for an individual assessment of the results of the activity, but not more than six basic monthly fees per year.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u85	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament, we will support this proposal and we believe it is right. I would like to dissipate some statements in the media that have appeared that almost six extra salaries are distributed to the kaplak and thus oppose the judges in the system between them. This definitely does not correspond to the idea of the text, first of all, because they are not given six, not more than six. And they're not given to a cock, they're given an individual assessment based on established rules by the Supreme Judicial Council. Let's make this clear to everyone. This court, these courts, colleagues, and these prosecutors must fight corruption. Only a week ago, and this one included, we talked about it. This week we passed the Anti-Corruption Act. We all unite, we all talk about how we're going to fight corruption. Well, it's the court that's supposed to rule judgments in corruption cases. There is no way, there is no other effective way to stimulate judges to work in this Court. There is no more effective incentive than additional remuneration. There is no more effective anti-corruption measure than the additional stimulus of these judges. So we will support the proposal. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that specialized courts and prosecutors have another very big problem. We didn't decide it in the Law and it doesn't belong there, but it is within the authority of the Supreme Judicial Council. Specialized courts have four small halls, colleagues. This is extremely insufficient and from here I address the Supreme Judicial Council in the fastest way to find a way to solve this problem at the Specialized Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u87	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Hamid! My line is actually an addition, I fully support your arguments in relation to this proposal and as contributors. My line is as an addition to your argumentation in the following sense: we solve the case with the lack of magistrates in these specialized bodies through the posting. You have not revealed the following circumstance: in the case of secondment, especially in the criminal trial, the magistrate takes two jobs with regard to the specifics of the criminal trial and the need for the criminal judge to participate personally and continuously in the particular case. He takes on two volumes of cases.. these cases he has done so far, plus those cases which he will take on further. It is therefore justified to obtain the compensation concerned through additional remuneration. Thank you for clarifying that this is not a matter of six salaries at all, and this is a maximum amount on an annual basis, up to this maximum amount, i.e. the maximum, the extreme, which, in fulfilling all the criteria that the Supreme Judicial Council will accept, that is, the magistrates themselves will accept, the maximum, which can receive a posting magistrate in this case, is up to a second, that is, half to his current salary. But that's why he works two volumes of cases, and the old ones, and the new ones, which are even heavier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u90	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Kirilov, thank you for agreeing with me. You see, colleagues from GERB, that when you return to the positions of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, things are going well. [[crowd cheering in the hall.]] Return to the positions of the DPS and the government, and you will see that Bulgaria will return to its European path. Thank you. [[Laughter, excitement, partial applause from the DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u91	Mr. Bojankov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In no case do we dispute the correctness of the step the magistrates in Bulgaria should be further stimulated, but our opinion is that this should be done on the basis of analysis and objective criteria in order not to create opposition and division within the judiciary. And because the texts refer not only to magistrates but also to judicial officers, they create a privilege because the texts do not apply to the entire judicial system. In this way we make the Specialized Court rather special, on the border with extraordinary, and we do not need to say what an emergency means, especially between lawyers. In this sense we remain at our initial opinion that we support the philosophy of better material stimulation of the Bulgarian magistrates, but if this is intended for absolutely everyone in the system. Since the current text is not based on a serious analysis of the workload, I have bothered to examine in the Specialized Criminal Court what are the prevailing cases. I have seen that there are many cases of resolution or refusal of decisions under the Special Intelligence Act. On the contrary, I studied practice at the Sofia District Court and there I saw that there were magistrates with greater workload. That is, we must take this decision on the basis of results achieved, such as the number of cases closed and pending, the number of decisions given, workload and others. But what we're proposing right now is certainly not the right solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I take the floor because I was actively involved in the debate in the Legal Committee and I will give you arguments as to why we should not accept this text. Currently, the existing version of the Law in para. 6 enables additional remuneration to be determined on the basis of the level of workload of the relevant judicial authority. The Supreme Judicial Council may determine additional remuneration for a judge, prosecutor, investigator. During the debate in the Legal Committee, representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council attended the Deputy Prosecutor General, who informed us that two rules for determining the remuneration of magistrates are in place at the Supreme Judicial Council. It's been planned, and that's what we're doing right now. My main argument there is as follows: if we take the word away from the existing text, whatever proposal is being made, then this potential possibility must also be budgetaryly secure. And as it became known, there is no opinion from the Ministry of Finance. And my attitude, not that I take care of the interests of the Ministry of Finance, is this: by making this proposal, you must justify the possibility that all magistrates get something for their activities. Leave the Special Court. The colleague Bojankov told you: "Yes, the justice card is unbalanced and other courts are too busy." But you, in the main text at the moment, taking the word out, can find the potential for every judge, prosecutor and investigator to expect that he is being paid according to the workload and you must determine such remuneration. Therefore, in my opinion, the text at the moment, with the clarification we have also heard in the Legal Committee, that there are already two types of rules, that determine such remuneration, makes the text redundant. With regard to specialized courts and prosecutions, if we open the door to give extra money for workload, you heard in the previous discussion and in the hearing of candidates for the Supreme Judicial Council that there are many, very busy courts, and here in Sofia. If we say, "We will give you money according to your occupation, the next ones they will ask for will be many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Milkov! I would like to point out that by removing me from the first sentence of art. 233, we have leveled out absolutely all judges and magistrates in the opportunity to receive additional remuneration and I believe that this is in favor of all magistrates. Yes, this will lead to an additional financial burden. This issue has been discussed, to the best of my knowledge, both on Wednesday at the Budget Commission of the Supreme Judicial Council and yesterday at the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council. Yes, this will probably require additional funds, but for this reason, according to the Public Finance Act, we have foreseen that, if it enters into force, it will be from 1 January 2018. We now have the budgetary procedure, that is, this could be reflected. I think that's a fair result against all magistrates. With regard to sentence two, I refer to the debate at the meeting with the administrative leaders of all appeals courts, the representatives of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Supreme Court of Cassation and the prosecutors of appeals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 15 on the Commission report. They voted 105 MPs: 75 against 19, abstentioned 11. Paragraph 15 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u98	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u99	We are voting on paragraphs 15 and 16 on the Commission report, which is already becoming paragraphs 16 and 17. Vote 105 MPs: 96 against 8, abstention 1. Paragraphs 16 and 17 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u100	According to § 15 there is a proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 345 is created. 5. The Office of the Specialized Criminal Court of Appeal, the Specialized Criminal Court, the Prosecutor's Office of Appeal, the Special Prosecutor's Office of the Special Prosecutor's Office and the investigating department of the Special Prosecutor's Office shall receive an additional remuneration of an amount established by the College of the Supreme Judicial Council for an individual assessment of the results of the activity, but not more than 6 basic monthly fees per year.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u101	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 17 on the report at your disposal which shall become § 18. We are voting § 18 on the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: 78, against 21, abstention 9. Paragraph 18 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u102	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 19. The Commission proposes to establish a closing provision with § 20: "Concluding provision': .................................................................................. Paragraphs 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19 shall enter into force from 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u103	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraph 16, which is now § 19, as well as the Commission's proposal to create a closing provision, § 20 and the content of § 20, as presented to you by the President of the Legal Committee Danail Kirilov of the parliamentary tribune. Vote 113 MPs: 108, against 4, abstention 1. Paragraphs 19 and 20 of the Commission's report have been adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. We interrupt until 11:00 when we continue with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u104	Honourable Members, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 20 October 2017 to 26 October 2017. A question has been received from the MP Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova to Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs, in support of a parliamentary initiative. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 3 November 2017. A question has been received from the MP Georgi Yanchev Gokov to Valeri Simeonov s Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy on a policy for solving the demographic problems of the country. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 3 November 2017. Written response from: - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Boris Yachev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Petrov; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on a question from the MPs Krum Zarkov, Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Ivan Dimitrov Ivanov and Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the MPs Donka Simeonova and Nikolay Tsankov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov on a request from the National Representative Vesela Lecheva; - Culture Minister Boel Banov on a question from the MPs Nona Yotova and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov. Colleagues, we're moving on to parliamentary control. The first will be the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs Mrs Ekaterina Zaharieva. The first question is from the MP Christian Vigenin on the activities of diplomatic representations abroad during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, honourable Members! My question is related to the upcoming Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the role of the Bulgarian diplomatic missions in this period. They will have a coordinating role for the embassies of the member states of the European Union during the Bulgarian Presidency. What is more important is that the Presidency makes it possible to outline Bulgaria's role in bilateral terms where these missions are presented. We should also bear in mind that during this period two of our biggest holidays will be celebrated "The National Holiday 3 March and the Day of Bulgarian Education and Culture and the Slavic Writing. Moreover, something that we seem to mention a little lately when we are talking about the Bulgarian Presidency, and we are more concerned with logistics, with priorities, but it is a unique chance for Bulgaria to try to build a more positive image within the European Union and on the global stage as a whole, and this is still connected, on the one hand, with vision, but on the other, with concrete initiatives, ideas that can be realized in this period, not only here in Bulgaria, but also in the Bulgarian diplomatic missions. In this regard, my question is: how much will our Bulgarian diplomatic missions be financially provided for this period? Is such financial commitments provided for by Central Governance and in the budget for next year at all? Is there a working plan for these commitments because, as far as I know, initiatives have been presented for which there is no confirmation yet. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Of course, in further questions to you, if any, I will develop another or two ideas that I think are important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u106	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u107	Dear Madam President, dear Mr Vigenin, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Bulgarian Presidency is indeed a unique opportunity, apart from having a successful programme and showing that we can achieve the common interests of the European Union, by defending our national interests, is a unique opportunity to present Bulgaria and our country in a positive way. You are right that they have a leading role, but I would say that they also have an extremely important and leading role in this time of the Bulgarian Presidency by organizing cultural events, seminars, conferences, events that present the Bulgarian priorities during the Presidency, to put Bulgaria in a positive light. Therefore, the communication plan for which funds of 2 million are provided under the national budget. 400,000. BGN, of which 400,000 lv. for this year and 2 million. lv. for next year, it's a good opportunity for that. From this money, unfortunately, I can say that the practice so far has been over the years, and I have heard this as a commentary, a complaint from each of the ambassadors and from each of the diplomatic officials dealing with the communication strategy and the cultural programme is to approve the funds after the middle of the year and to approve the projects. This year we will correct this practice and the final communication plan will be approved at the end of November. I don't think this practice is good. Of course, they act in the first six months on the communication programmes they have each year in general, on a budget, and then we pay back once we approve. I say it's been a practice, unfortunately, for many, many years. My wish is that this is not the case from now on. That is to say, to be approved at the beginning of the year and this year at the end of November. After all, there's a presidency coming. Not all diplomatic representations have yet to submit their final proposals, but we have proposals from most of them. We have the original plan. He worked at the Diplomatic Institute, at the Cultural Institute and, of course, together with diplomatic representations and colleagues from Sofia. Those who already have a clear plan and initially approved projects have been given advance funds so that they can keep the halls because you know that large, serious halls cannot be reserved for tomorrow. So they were given funds so they could keep the halls for the big events and give them a deposit. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] What is in the focus is to use, as you rightly pointed out, the two national celebrations are an extremely good chance that exactly in the first half of the year is our Presidency and to use all accompanying events, together with the Ministry of Culture, which have 7 million. lv. for the cultural program and so that with the money we have and the money they have, we can achieve a greater synergy effect. That is, to focus our resources where the Ministry of Culture will not organise such great cultural events.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u108	Thank you, Madame Deputy Prime Minister. Come in for a line, Mr. Vigenin, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, honourable Members! I do not have as much a line as I think that, as far as we are in a rather unusual situation, indeed, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must work more actively in this remaining period before the beginning of the Presidency itself, because you rightly noted some of the problems that our representations face in the ordinary years. Now, however, this is a presidency that comes once every 14-15 years and should not really, first of all, restrict representation and, secondly, turn out that because of a bad organization or not approved projects are failing important initiatives for Bulgaria. Besides these two celebrations, there is another event, which I think should also be present in our program and which Bulgaria is famous for around the world, and should be stressed again the rescue of the Bulgarian Jews. I believe that this is one of the things that should be reminded of the world over and over again during this period, and it is part of the image of Bulgaria as a country that is tolerant, democratic and in the most difficult times. This will definitely be necessary from the point of view and the composition of the current government there were different attacks from different directions in this area. I would also like to say that, in my opinion, it is good to select or arrange them by priority and the missions themselves, because there are representations where the Presidency will have no particular importance either in bilateral terms or in multilateral terms, but where we really need to improve image, we need to invest more. More should be invested where the countries will feel more of our contribution in this period, namely the Western Balkan countries, the Eastern Partnership, where the European Union is viewed in a much more positive way and this will not be irrelevant. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I hope that you will soon be able to present a more comprehensive plan, if not publicly, at least to the relevant committees, of foreign policy, perhaps the European issues, so that we know how far your work has come and what is to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u110	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Would you like a douche? You don't want to. We approach the next question, also asked by the National Representative Christian Vigenin, concerning activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the realization of Bulgaria's commitments under development aid. Here you are, Mr. Vigenin, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, honourable Members! This is a traditional question that is asked every year by the ministers of foreign affairs. We are talking about development aid, which, as a policy, we started to develop more seriously in 2013. From this point of view, however, there is a significant resource that we, as a commitment to the European Union, are committed to implement. A resource that naturally needs to be used effectively, something that gradually develops, but is difficult to realize for various reasons. My question to you relates: how much are the planned initiatives in 2018 related or are they taking into account the upcoming Bulgarian Presidency? Because this is another possibility and another means of strengthening our visibility at least in some of these countries in this period and possibly what are the larger projects that have been implemented this year? I would also like you to respond, because in his reply last year Minister Mitov said that the work on preparation and coordination has finally been completed, as far as I understand from his reply, the International Cooperation and International Humanitarian Aid Act. Do you plan to submit this bill soon to the National Assembly? It will be possible to regulate the work more clearly and to extend the range of organisations that could, through these means, implement initiatives along the development aid line? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u112	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. The word is the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you are, Deputy Prime Minister, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Vigenin, as you pointed out, Bulgaria, with its accession to the European Union, has made a commitment according to art. 208 and 214 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and art. 21 of the Treaty on European Union to conduct development cooperation policy and to provide funds for this policy of 0,33% of gross domestic product, or this is about 200 million with a horizon by 2030. Development aid rules shall be laid down by the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Development Cooperation and the conditions shall be provided and shall also be determined by that organisation. Although Bulgaria is not a member of this Organisation, its official development aid must comply with the rules of the Organisation. The cooperation policies are implemented through a mid-term development and humanitarian assistance programme adopted by the Council of Ministers for the period 2016 - 2019. Priority geographical directions are: the Western Balkans and the Black Sea region, and the thematic priorities are: support for the establishment of democratic responsible institutions; protection of human rights; migration and capacity building in support of security and development. The aid granted in 2017 for the implementation of the objectives is in both thematic and geographical terms. To date, almost 1 million funds have been paid out for 2017. 205,000. lv. for approved projects, with total repayments so far for approved projects provided funds and paid a million 791 thousand. lv. The finalisation of projects and contributions to international organisations should be completed by the end of 2017. $545,000. lv. In order not to bore the audience, because I will not have time in the three minutes, I have prepared two references that I will provide to you for projects that have been approved and funded so far. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are projects that are in phases and whose funding is within two or more years. For example, projects worth more than 3 million are in preparation. And 500,000. BGN, whose funding will start in 2017 and continue in 2018. We are currently preparing the bilateral finalisation of more than 50 projects with a focus on countries from the Western Balkans and countries from the Black Sea region. A significant part of the projects are aimed at supporting cultural and educational institutes and associations by financing repair activities and equipment, promoting education, cultural diversity and international dialogue. We also have a lot of projects related to the ombudsmen of the countries concerned and support for them. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Next year's funds amount to 6 million. BGN, which will be provided on our budget. I would like to assure you, Mr. Vigenin, that for the first time Bulgarian overseas representations in the countries of the Western Balkans are obliged to include in their annual plans actions related to contacts with the institutes, local government authorities, non-governmental organisations for project development under the Development Programme. That is, we also encourage our ambassadors there to be active so that they can promote this Programme to local authorities and NGOs. I fully support that this Programme can be used to promote Bulgaria and what Bulgaria is doing to support the Western Balkans. I had a personal opportunity to be sure in Bosnia and Herzegovina when I met with mayors from municipalities and settlements who were funded by projects under this Programme and believe me, with little and less money, the effect and the place of Bulgaria there is extremely high. Here's your reference. [[References to the National Representative Christian Vigenin.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Mr. Vigenin, you have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u115	Thank you, Madam President. I make a line rather to give the opportunity, if Minister Zaharieva decides to say anything else. Otherwise, I am glad that the policy in this area is evolving. I see that the funds provided for this policy in the next budget are a little more. Naturally, it will be difficult to reach the ceilings that have been set for us, but the issue is not only in the amount of funds, but also in how effectively they are used and how we achieve the goals we set for ourselves, because they are connected, on the one hand, with support for the development of certain countries, regions, communities, but, on the other, they still need to give a little more visibility to Bulgaria. As far as specific projects are concerned, they really matter. I also ask these questions every year for a reason, because this is how I think we are giving this type of policy another opportunity to promote itself. Usually hardly anything is known and there is no talk about it, yet this is a serious opportunity for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and also for the Bulgarian state because other institutions are involved in this assistance. You did not mention about the Law.............................. whether you are supporting it or whether it is coming in or maybe you will work it out, do you feel that there is a need for further work on it? Either way, if you don't have an answer right now, we'll find out soon enough. I hope when it's imported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u116	Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, complete your response through the possibility of a duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u117	Such a bill has informed me that it has been drawn up, but it is not coherent and has not gone through public consultations. The project has been returned to the task force because there are some things we need to clarify. You are absolutely right that it will enable more flexible implementation of this Programme. I'm setting an example. We want to finance once now in Albania the Bulgarian minority is acknowledged, but the truth is that because of the insufficient legal base we are looking for options to do it, and funds actually have and this will be a longer project. So I have included it in the legislative programme of the government, but the Law must be completed, to go through public consultations and I hope by the middle of next year or in the first part of the work of the National Assembly to be tabled and adopted. Thank you, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. There is a question from the National Representative Jemma Grozdanova on the implementation of the Communication Plan for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018, adopted by the Council of Ministers by Decision No 200 of 13 April 2017. Here you go, Dr. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs! The communication plan of the Bulgarian Presidency was adopted by Decision No 200 of the Council of Ministers and defined the general framework of the tasks and activities necessary for the information provision in 2017 and 2018 of the preparation and implementation of the six-month rotating Presidency. The horizontal objectives and priorities set out in national and international terms should reflect balanced priorities in the work programme of the three-presidential Presidency " Estonia, Bulgaria and Austria." The whole trio period is July 2017. I repeat the periods twice because the Communication Plan should already be in effect, as we are in the period of the third Presidency. Events in the field of public diplomacy abroad, as you said during the answer to the first question, are based on proposals from the Bulgarian overseas representations reflecting the specifics of politics and the public environment in the countries concerned. Effective public communication should be an important prerequisite for the success of the Presidency and should include a coordinated activity and a set of actions aimed at building a recognizable and objective image of Bulgaria and promoting the Presidency's priorities. In this regard, I would like to ask you: has a contractor already been selected for the public procurement, which the Ministry has announced, named "Providing publicity through media and communication services of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union outside Bulgaria"? What's the budget on this order? Do we have an already signed concept of communication strategy, or do we rely on the contractor to sign it? Is the presentation ready for the public presentation of the Bulgarian Presidency in our embassies, permanent representations, general consulates, as well as the short video by which the priorities of each rotating presidency are traditionally presented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u120	Thank you. Come in for an answer, Minister Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u121	Dear Mrs. Grozdanova, I have already answered part of your question. Four hundred thousand leva for this year. The plan has been approved. The funds are provided for our overseas offices. I would like to point out that this 2 million. And 400,000. lv. They're just for communication strategy. Still for the 2018 budget and now having been approved, funds must actually be provided for the purely representative protocol events that are mandatory, but which also complement the Communication Plan and are related to mandatory opening events, hosting receptions, organizing priorities. So the necessary funds for the two cross-border representation plans, the other funds we expect to receive in the 2018 budget, which is about 1 million. 300-400 thousand. lv. further, and which at all costs must be provided for us to have a dignified Presidency. In order not to repeat what I answered the first question, Mrs. Grozdanova, of that 2 million. 400,000. BGN, 2 million for the following year, the funds are allocated as follows: 75% are for direct financing of our overseas offices, or that is 1 million. Five hundred thousand. lv.; 25%............................................................................................ BGN are for the payment of a public contract for media and communication services of the Presidency abroad, which includes: publications in leading European publications; interviews and reports of European leaders; specialized trips of small groups of foreign journalists in Bulgaria; digital communication with the use of all possible channels, including social networks; monitoring the effect and dynamics of the public interest in the topics; media and online campaign to promote the events of the calendar of the Presidency and support the work of Bulgarian officials in the coverage of foreign media. He's in the process of signing a contract with this firm. This was a public procedure with sufficiently broad criteria. However, only one firm appeared in the procedure. The documentation is published on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The value of the contract is 475 thousand. lv. It is expected and, of course, the deadline for appeal of the decision, although there is no way for anyone to mourn, given that no one else has appeared. There is only one international company that we expect to enter into a contract after the appeal period is over at any moment. Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Here's a line for you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u122	Madam Minister, from the first response we have learned that the communication plan for which the Foreign Ministry is responsible will be finalised at the end of November, also that 2.4 million. lv. are in the central budget and about 600,000. lv. they're for the public procurement. We understand that the contractor has already been appointed, although the deadline for appeal is running, that is, things are still desirable. I did not understand whether the presentation is ready, which our embassies should offer publicly when the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency are presented so that all embassies, permanent representations and general consulates are able in an identical way to arrange and show the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency. We are waiting for new information on what are the specific proposals of each of the capitals, because we asked for such a reference to the Committee on Foreign Policy on 4 October today is 27 October and we have not received the answer, so we believe that.. not to bother you in any way, but to work better together, it is good to receive timely information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Here you go, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u124	Dear Mrs. Grozdanova, I am very surprised by your line that you are not receiving information. For the first time, and many people say this, the entire team of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.. I, with my four deputy ministers, attend all the committees to which you invite us and organize, plus directors of... General or experts, have the opportunity to ask questions and provide information. I don't know who else to bring to your Commission so you think you're getting information on time, but if you say so, I'll bring more people. This meeting was attended by Deputy Minister, Director General, even two Deputy Ministers who provided the communication plan. If you want us to send you all the proposals that have come, we will send them to you, but that does not mean that this will be the communication plan. Is everything wishful thinking? In five months, nothing was launched. I think we were able to finalise an absolutely honorable, open procurement contract, and when the deadline is up, the contract will be concluded. So there was neither a complaint about the opening decision nor do I think there would be a complaint about the choice of contractor. So the fact is that we have managed to make a transparent order that no one can appeal, I think it speaks well of the team of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I told you in response to Mr Vigenin's question, they are watched by teams of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the diplomatic institute and the cultural institute. Of course, there are many more proposals than we could finance with the funds that I have told you have been allocated from the central budget. That is why these projects are being refined together with the Ministry of Culture because they have money for a communication and cultural program, and also to achieve a greater synergies effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u125	We would like to thank Mrs Ekaterina Zaharieva for her participation in today's parliamentary control. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs. We continue with the answers of Minister Nikolay Nankov " Minister of Regional Development and Public Works." He will answer, first, a question from the National Representative Sevim Ali concerning the Republican Road III-7306 Lozarevo Here you go, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nankov, my question to you is, first of all, about Republican Road III-7306, which is a third-class road, part of the Republican Road Network of Bulgaria, passing along the territory of Burgas and Sliven Region. Its length is 22.6 km and is in poor operating condition. Second, concerning Republican Road III-7006 1-7 village of Sadovo, administrative border with Sliven District, which is also a third-class road, part of the Republican Road Network of Bulgaria, passing along the territory of Burgas and Sliven Region. Its length is 17.6 km, which is also in poor operating condition. In the above described road sections, there is a depreciated and worn asphalt flooring with networked cracks and deformations with falling areas of the pavement with many bumps and holes on the asphalt pavement. It is necessary, dear Minister, to perform an urgent and urgent repair of the above-mentioned road sections. They have a very intense movement due to the fact that they are also one of the main arteries of the municipality of Sungurlare and serve the services of the two districts of Burgas and Sliven. The insufficient technical and operational support in recent years by the Road Infrastructure Agency, the associated banquets and the drainage ditches have led to the current extremely poor technical condition of the road sections concerned, which is a prerequisite for a road accident. In this regard, my question to you, Mr. Minister, is: is there funds provided for by the end of this 2017 and for the next 2018 for the main rehabilitation or partial repair of the Republican Road III-7306 Lozarevo Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u127	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Come in for an answer, Minister Nankov. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ali, Republican Road III-7306 Lozarevo is a direct link between Rishki and Kotlenski Pass and is used by travelers from Northeastern Bulgaria to Svilengrad. The Road Infrastructure Agency is seeking to maintain the road with a good operational state, which is currently not enough. In 2016 according to the funds in the programme "Current repair and maintenance" types of repairs were performed at a total value of just over 32 thousand. lv. with VAT. In this year 2017, up until twenty days ago, according to the approved budget resources, there has been a patching of road pavement of a total of 11 thousand. lv. with VAT. In view of what I have mentioned, the efforts so far have been insufficient and the road is indeed in a severe operational state on 5 October 2017 with funding from the state budget of 7.7 million. lv. with VAT began repair activities on the third-class road III-7306 Lozarevo The deadline for the implementation of the repairs is 12 months. The contract is under the program "Current repair and maintenance" by the company that implements the current repair and maintenance on the territory of the district road management. For the next time you asked a question about the road III-7006 Varbitsa "Beronovo" "Sadovo" border of regional road management Sliven, on the territory of Burgas region, it is also not in a good technical and operational state. In 2016, according to the funds allocated, road surface patching was carried out and the most dangerous holes were secured. In 2017, under a maintenance contract, a patching of road pavement and cutting of bushes was carried out. For the road section, there is no technical design and is not included in the programme "Basic repair" of the "Travel Infrastructure" Agency for the current year 2017. Once the Agency's budget for 2018 will be established, the possibilities for awarding the design and implementation of a major repair of the third-class road will be considered. That is to say, on one occasion, renovations have already started, funding has been provided. I mentioned 7 million. And 700,000. BGN, and for the second we will look for opportunities in the current and subsequent years after we carry out the design. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u129	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Ali, to set your line. You have two minutes for this.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. The question is about the unsatisfactory condition of the two road sections. The question I asked you was also raised by the inhabitants of Sungurlare municipality. At the time, they insisted that urgent measures be taken to repair both road sections, as any delay in time is a potential risk for users of both road sections. As far as I can tell from your response, there are means of repairing one road section. Let's hope that in 2018, next year, there will be funds allocated for the repair of the second road section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u131	Thank you. Would you like a douche? You will not take this right. We come to a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev on actions taken to improve the quality of the cadastral map and the cadastral registers. Here you are, Mr. Bonev, asking your question. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u132	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! For the creation and maintenance of the cadastral map of the country is maintained a three-dimensional network of geodesic points as a single basis for geodetic measurements. In the creation of the cadastral map of modern legislation, there are a number of problems that a property has had in the past.. unsolved property or borders. The problem is that different contracting entities have assigned maps to different performers not according to our geodetic and topographic rules, which leads to great difficulties in their reconciliation. From there the problems with dunes, Natura 2000, habitats of birds and others arise. It is not clear how maps taken with handheld GPS and with a accuracy of 7-8 meters will be compatible with the cadastral map to an accuracy of 50 cm? Dear Minister, to improve the quality of the cadastral map and cadastral registers, concrete steps must be taken to refine the Cadastral Information Control System, to attract qualified personnel, to update the regulations, to improve communication with municipalities and specialized groups working with cadastral products, notaries, judges, the training of all staff involved in this activity and, above all, to present quality services by the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency. My question to you is: what action will you take to address these problems and within what deadlines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u133	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Please, Minister, answer this question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bonev, according to the Cadaster Act and the property register, the cadastral map and cadastral registers are created by combining cadastral data contained in maps and registers, made and approved under the order of personal laws, as you yourself mentioned, prior to the Cadastral and Property Register Act, as well as by direct geodetic measurements. In this regard, many of the errors that appear in the cadastral map are inaccuracies in the first source of information, in sources based on which the cadastral map is made. Something very logical. By amending the Cadastral Map and Cadastral Register Act of 2016, as well as the new Ordinance of 15 December 2016 on the content, establishment and maintenance of the Cadastral Map and Cadastral Registers, a procedure is regulatoryly regulated to remedy a manifest factual error, which is an essential way to improve the quality of the cadastral map and cadastral registers such as the boundaries of permanent topographic objects of natural or artificial origin, such as roads, dams and others, will be applied in the cadastral map of their correct location. This method did not exist during the amendment of the Cadastral Act and the property register for the unurbanized territories with approved cadastral map and the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency already has the opportunity to self-sease and remove the errors. A timetable has been drawn up and phased in the framework of personal budgetary resources, the Agency will assign removal of a manifest factual error for territories for which a cadastral map and cadastral registers are established for non-urbanised territories. You know, we are currently carrying out a process to convert KBC's recovered property cards, cadastral maps, and precisely by budget and operational programme funds, we are removing the actual errors in KBC and their correct application in cadastral maps. Another important step taken by the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster Agency started at the end of June 2017 conducting specialized training, which you mentioned how important it is to work with the information system for cadastral information of all stakeholders, participants in the process of creating and maintaining the cadastral map and cadastral registers. These are employees of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Offices, of municipal administrations, judges of the registration, notaries and rightful persons. In order to improve the quality of the cadastre, control is envisaged in the creation of the cadastral map and cadastral registers, which will be from a wider team, including in addition to staff of the Agency and representatives of the professional associations of geodesists and landbuilders. Steps have been taken to strengthen the administrative unit controlling the activities of accepting the cadastral map and the cadastral registers, as well as the activities of the legal persons in their activities of the cadastral. The Agency has already taken measures to promote the need to improve data quality, as well as the essence of cadastral card information and cadastral registers. The implementation of explanatory campaigns among the stakeholders, organizations and agencies that we are currently carrying out will help to provide assistance from them in the process of maintaining cadastral maps and cadastral registers and will reduce the number of disputes over material law. There is something very important here that I would like to say in conclusion. Cadastral map doesn't create property rights, you know, it only reflects. She's a picture of the existing situation. There is a strong work, of course, to provide remote access to data in the cadastral maps and cadastral registers of all relevant authorities, of course, including municipalities and departments, which have the competence to modify basic cadastral data or property data. In the case of immediate handling of Cadastral Card data, all users shall benefit and assist within the framework of the regulatory administrative procedures for improving the quality and content of the Cadastral Card. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u135	Thank you, Minister Nankov. Here you go, Mr. Bonev. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The requirements of § 32 of the Cadaster Act and the property register, that is, the conversion of the map of the restored property into cadastral maps, began to be fulfilled by the Cadastral Cards, which must comply with Ordinance No 3 of 2005 on content, creation and maintenance of cadastral maps and registers. The question remains as to what methodology this transformation is carried out and it is not clear whether the accumulated gaps are the actuality and accuracy of the KBCs or the so-called "Map of the restored property" for each individual property, namely location and ownership. It is not clear who will be responsible and who will guarantee the quality of the transformation carried out, which, in my opinion, is purely mechanically reflected in a carte file. It is necessary to develop adequate technical and legislative measures to ensure the correct transformation of KBC the map of restored property, a cadastral map, in order to be able to guarantee and protect the rights of owners established by the laws governing land relations. I'm just going to add one example of what you did for the accuracy of the KBCs because of its sites, including the dams. The international road II-63 passes through the territory of 18 lands. None of them have the same width. It is apparent from your written reply, Lot 1 that the estrangement due to the fact that ownership has not been established, including for all water sites within the territory of the country, has not been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u137	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Would you like a duplicate and an addition to the answer? Here you are, Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u138	I didn't understand, by the way, but if Mr. Bonev understands [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, I did not understand that he understood, as these questions were somewhat chaoticly asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u139	Please do not enter into such a dialogue, answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Sorry about the note. What I have learned from the question asked by you as a clarifying one is how we are going to apply the KBC data in the Cadastral Cards and by what methodology. Not only a methodology, but there is also a legal basis, you know the regulation that I have quoted will personally provide the methodology by which this is carried out. I also mentioned the funding provided. However, what is important in this case is to mention that it is precisely the changes to the Cadastre Act and the property register in 2016 that have enabled the rapid, accurate change of the cadastral map through the procedure for manifest error, as this procedure enables the Cadastral authorities and the persons able to self-sit and reflect on a service path, and not as so far after the signals of interested parties. And as for the accuracy and quality of the cadastral map, I think in my initial answer I gave clarity. We can talk a lot about this subject, but we really must all assume that the cadastral map is a picture of existing property-legal relations and regulatory lines, respectively, of acts certifying property in digital form. In this regard, with precision and indeed with the work of law-abiding persons who will translate the map of the restored property into digital format and, respectively, a file which is supported by colleagues from the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency. Within the next two years, we will cover the country's territory with quality, repeat, accurate, accurate information, a cadastral map of more than 90% of the country's territory, including most of the unurbanized territories. This was the great goal, by the way, come on, not to call it the reform, which sounds very general, rather the policy that has been conducted in the Cadasta for the last 4-5 years, because the logic is in a single body, namely the Agency to combine and refine all information related to land registers and the provision of this information to Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u141	Thank you, Minister Nenkov. The next question to you is asked by the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Manol Genov about building a bridge connecting Street. "Koprivshtitsa" and "Kostivshtitsa" Blvd. "България" "България" "Продукти"." Plovdiv. Here you go, Assoc. Yordanov, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u142	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! One of the cities with extremely high traffic lately is the city of Plovdiv. The reason for this is the increased traffic flow from Smolyan district, Kardzhali district, part of Haskovo district to Trakiya highway, which passes through Plovdiv, and through its central part. One of the streets that this stream is heading through is Street. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Unfortunately, at the end of the street the stream has to pass through some critical points to reach the ring road of Plovdiv and to Trakiya highway. At the same time, it is known that a long-planned bridge has been planned across the Maritsa River to connect Street. "Koprivshtitsa" and "Kostivshtitsa" Blvd. "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? Unfortunately, due to the lack of financial opportunities, this project has been postponed for a long time. My question, Minister Nankov, to you is: do you think that this transport connection, carried out by bridge over the Maritsa River, is an important link and would you assist in building the bridge?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u143	Thank you, Assoc. Yordanov. Come in for an answer, Minister Nankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u144	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Yordanov! First I will start with this: my answer is categorically yes! It is important, it is necessary and must be constructed accordingly. However, the road to building a bridge over the Maritsa River does not affect the Republican road network. This is very important, which I must emphasise. For the section of the urbanized territory of the town of Plovdiv between the municipality and the Road Infrastructure Agency, communication was made only in relation to the project for new road communication between Str. "Koprivshtitsa" and "Kostivshtitsa" Blvd. "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? "Bulgaria"? The investment intention for a circular intersection is on initiative and on a project funded by the Municipality of Plovdiv. The design includes the construction of a circular intersection on Blvd. Plovdiv, I-800 Plovdiv, Plovdiv, Plovdiv, Plovdiv, Svilengrad. The same falls into the position of a traffic control intersection. In 2014 the Agency was presented for review and coordination of the project for a new crossroads on Blvd. "Bulgaria", road I-8, and the project route of Blvd. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Road Infrastructure Agency accepts the provided project solution under certain conditions and returns the documentation for a decision of Plovdiv Municipality. In 2017, a technical project was presented, and the idea project has already been upgraded, and a detailed development plan, a plan for regulation of a crossroads. The text part of the part is presented........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The facilities and the text part of the detailed planning and parcel plan and drawings according to part of the detailed development plan and parcel plan. After getting acquainted with the travel documentation, the experts of the Road Infrastructure Agency have found that the technical project and the detailed development plan and parcel plan are in line with the other recommendations. In view of this, the Agency has coordinated the documentation with a letter, ex. No 53-00-21-72 of 4 April 2017. According to my information from the Regional Road Management Plovdiv, Plovdiv Municipality has not yet completed the approval procedure for the technical project. With regard to funding, I would like to inform you that the Road Infrastructure Agency has not received information about the way and source of funds, or whether the municipality will request such from the Ministry of Finance for the construction of the circular intersection. Locking again with a positive answer: Yes, it is necessary, it needs to be built. So I summarized the road here from the Municipality and from the Road Infrastructure Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u145	Thank you, Minister Nankov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u146	Dear Mrs. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Minister! It became clear that so far a lot of work has been done by both the Municipality and the Road Infrastructure Agency, after things have reached the point that the preparation and approval of the technical project is expected. I would like to remind all colleagues that the city of Plovdiv is one of the cities with the densest population in the urbanized territory. km. Motor vehicles registered only on the territory of Plovdiv are over 200 thousand. The possibilities for crossing from one side of the Maritsa River, which divides the city of Plovdiv, are small because there are three bridges in the urbanized territory plus one more, outside of it, on the road around the road. I assume that Plovdiv Municipality will make the necessary efforts and will do its job, but you too will respond to the need and need of Plovdiv people from the presence of this bridge, because this will greatly alleviate traffic in the city of Plovdiv, will also create an opportunity for road drivers to make their movement safer and more normal. So as you said, the move is indeed Plovdiv Municipality, but you as a minister should look with both eyes, as they say, this investment intention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u147	Thank you, Mr. Genov. You don't want the doppelganger, Minister Nankov. We come to the next question, which is asked by the National Representative Hristo Prodanov about providing a safe pedestrian route through the Republic route II The prominent ones. You have two minutes to develop your question, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my question to you is about providing a safe pedestrian route through the Republican road II The prominent ones. More than three years ago, on 17 September 2014 in the Central Administration of the Road Infrastructure Agency, which is, by the way, another working meeting with representatives of the stakeholders, where a decision was made to build an underpass on road II, 18 in the section of km 32 + 100 to km 32 + 400. My question to you is: at what stage are the talks with Sofia Municipality on coordination and joint financing and when will the implementation of the commitments made by the countries begin?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u149	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Come in for an answer, Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u150	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prodanov! In fulfilling the commitments made by the Agency, the Road Infrastructure Agency, under the API protocol signed on 17 September 2014, has drawn up a draft technical assignment for the design of an underpass on road II, 18, from a ring road in the section of km 32 + 100 to km 32 + 400, and, of course, a draft agreement protocol has been adopted between the Agency and the Sofia Municipality for joint financing of the site. The documents were sent to Sofia Municipality in September 2017, the new agreement protocol, and are currently in the process of coordination. In order to complete the work on the assignment and protocol that I mentioned, the Sofia Municipality should supplement the information from the specific regulations of the Municipality containing requests applicable to this site and specify the requirements of the Municipality to the elements of urban furniture to be implemented within the scope of the contract. The realization of the facility is designed to be of engineers, including the development of technical projects in the construction of the site.................................. to save time! The Road Infrastructure Agency will proceed to the preparation of tender documentation, the engineering for the selection of contractor of the construction supervision after the design assignment is approved by the interested parties, API and Sofia Municipality after the agreement protocol for joint financing of the site is signed. I have the assurance after a re-confidence between my colleagues from Sofia Municipality and the Road Infrastructure Agency that in November we will have finally prepared options for a technical assignment and for contractual control, so that we can proceed to conducting a public procurement of engineering, which we can trade within the winter months in order to be able, by 2018, at the beginning of the construction season, to realize this investment intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u151	Thank you, Minister Nenkov. Here's a line for you, dear Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, the information you give me is encouraging, because in the end, walking through these people's misery is quite long years. The problem began in the early 1970s, when the ring road was built and then the village was divided. There are 180 children living in the district of Plovdiv, where there are about 600-700 people, and in the end there are neither school nor kindergarten, nor health service, city hall, pharmacy and so on. All these people are forced to cross the Crossroads at least twice a day, which, you know, is a high-speed highway, a highway, and this, apart from problems, has been causing many casualties in the last 25 years, there have been 30 deaths and between 60 and 70 wounded. So my request is to really monitor this process and to do everything possible at the beginning of 2018, as you said, to start building and to solve this problem, which, as I told you, has been going on for quite a long time and, unfortunately, leads to many victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u153	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the House, Mr. Prodanov! I also thank for the concern and think that the actions we have taken are indeed a confirmation of what you have also expressed, and of the concerns of the Road Infrastructure Agency, Sofia Municipality's truly maximum safe passage through the speedy part of the Sofia ring road. You know, there is even an organization with traffic lights at the moment, walking paths, but that's not enough. Therefore, all these efforts that I mentioned about the real commitment of colleagues from Sofia Municipality is that November we will have approved texts of a protocol of a job, so that we can, I repeat, assign the engineering procedure and provide financial resources. It is extremely important that pedestrians pass safely on the crosswalk of Kazichene on the road around the road, so yes, the commitment we have will be realized in 2018. I also thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u155	Thank you, Minister Nankov, for the positive answer. There is a question from the National Representative Manol Genov concerning the lag of municipalities in the preparation and adoption of common planning plans. Please ask the question, dear Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u156	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Minister, we have spoken with you before on this matter, and it concerns the lag of municipalities about the development and adoption and entry into force of common planning. Mr. Minister, what measures has your Ministry identified to deal with this lag of all municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria with the development, adoption and entry into force of these common planning plans? Do you have an analysis and assessment of the current state of this problem, which is an element of the socio-economic development of the state? What deadline do you plan for the entry into force of the common planning plans for all municipalities? I mean on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria? What will the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works take to catch up on this delay by municipalities? What is financial security for solving this problem by the poorest municipalities? What size and what part of the Ministry's budget will be those funds to help the poorest municipalities that are willing, I stress, to have such common planning plans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u157	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Please, Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u158	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Genov! Currently, data from 265 municipalities in the country only 21 municipalities have a common development plan for their entire territory. The forecast period, whose predictions amount to 15-20 years, has not expired, as we have old common expiry plans. The procedure of the general planning plans of the municipalities and under the provisions of the Law on Construction of the Area, with the exception of the one on the Black Sea coast, which is leading, is entirely within the competence of the municipal administrations and outside the powers of MRDPB. The appointment and approval of the plans takes place with a decision of the municipal councils on a proposal from the mayors of the municipalities. The deadlines for their completion are with the entry into force of a decision of the municipal councils to approve the plans, fully dependent on their activity and commitment, and on the speed of other state institutions. The MRDP provides methodological assistance and assistance to the municipalities by carrying out coordination and control in the process of awarding, drafting and processing the projects of the common planning plans. In the three years 2015 and 2016 and 2017, correspondence was conducted with all municipalities, which were promptly notified of the access to the information relating to the financial support procedure, which was published annually on the website of the Ministry of Finance and of the actions to be taken to include them in the financial assistance procedure, as well as reminder letters in cases of delays by certain municipalities or expiry of the deadlines set by the agreements with the Ministry. I mentioned that we are providing the necessary assistance, providing the necessary information to the municipalities of beneficiaries before us, as we have provided financial resources for the development of common spatial plans. The municipalities, which are seriously behind in the implementation of the agreements concluded with the Ministry and, in the event of a significant delay in the co-ordination procedures, at their request and in the light of the possibility of their amendment and supplement, conclude an annex extending the period of implementation of the existing agreements concluded in, for example, 2015 and expires in the 2017 budget. This is how we do on an annual basis with those who fail for objective reasons to complete the procedure. The deadline for agreements concluded in 2016 shall be until the expiry of the 2018 budget year and for those concluded in this 2017 shall be the expiry of the 2019 budget year. The financial support from the state budget in the preparation of a project of common development plans is planned to re-equalise for all municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. These are the municipalities that are behind in the process as a whole. You mentioned what resources the Ministry provides and we have divided the municipalities in Bulgaria into three financial support groups with different intensity. The first group included the municipalities of the first category and financed up to 50% of the amount of the agreed price, but not more than 164 048 BGN.; for the second group the aid intensity is up to 65% of the value of the agreed price, but not more than 142 650 BGN.; for the third group of the poorest municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the aid intensity is up to 80% of the amount of the agreed price, but not more than 121 253 BGN. Time's up, and then maybe I'll have plenty of time to develop the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u159	Thank you, Minister Nankov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Genov. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u160	I'll be shorter to give Mr. Minister to complete the matter, but I have a few other questions for him. You, under one law, have the right to sanction the mayors because I suppose there are also such municipalities which do not take the initiative to step up the procedures for the preparation, acceptance and entry into force of the common planning plans. Will you use this mechanism and this lever? It seems to me that this is a personal opinion, I do not engage any of my colleagues here with it, but I engage with many citizens and voters who say so: we have the relevant obstacles, obstacles, inconveniences with the lack of common spatial plans. In the Ministry, you have 20 people in the Piars, I do not know what you are leading, but do a campaign to know which mayor and which municipality does not take an initiative to have a common plan. Do it so that voters know who they voted for and in whose favor he works for them or for someone else, or for nothing. Do one of these campaigning because the condition is sad. You understand it yourself from 265 municipalities 23 have, and a few more dozen I suppose are under procedure. It is true that there should be coordination, there should be an environmental impact assessment, a number of other concerted ones, and there is also a black hole, called the National Institute for Cultural Monuments. I will not list them all to the end, but do one such campaign, see what the result is, and I think it will be better from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u161	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Dear Minister, will you sanction mayors for lack of planning? Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, you're mistaking the office! Twenty P.R.I.P.s! Show them to me if you have to, and I'll provide you with information, but you're mistaking the office. Very well, by the way, you formulated the problem, as you know that in 2012 with the changes in the Law on Construction on the territory we set some restrictive deadlines, you remember, which we extended several times, and we have debated many times with you the topic. After these deadlines, if the municipality does not have a development plan, some of the investment initiatives, investment intentions and especially of private investors in this municipality will be restrictive and limited. This was one of the incentives for municipalities to award. You are very right in this case, but you have said it directly, and I will say that there are municipalities, municipal administrations, mayors, to whom even the sanction provided by law will mention it is not an obstacle not to initiate a procedure for general planning. The general design plan is not a single document and is not a product that is produced, you see, as many strategies, analyses possibly and at municipal level to have it just on paper. It is the document that will give the plan, will give the visionary, sustainable development of municipalities in terms of balancing the territory, the needs of investment, and will find the balance between public and private needs in the area. In this connection, the Law on the Construction of the Area......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 232b, where these commitments are provided, on the basis of which the mayor, within six months of entering the texts in the Law, is obliged to take steps and actions before the Municipal Council and initiate this procedure. Mr. Genov, let me just mention to you that an analysis is currently being drawn up on who are the municipal administrations to call them the guilty ones, in general, who have not initiated this procedure. The list will be published and measures will be taken, as we have also commented in the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, so that the public can truly see and assess which representatives of local authorities, especially of local executives, mayors of municipalities, have not initiated this procedure regulated by the Law on the Construction of the Area. We were forwarding it in 2012, when these texts were laid down. Thanks again for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u163	Thank you, Minister Nankov. The following is a question from the MP Stefan Burgeev concerning the aviary in February 2017 a ponton bridge on the Iskar River at the village of Iskar, Golyantsi municipality, Pleven district, and the need for urgent action. You are welcome to develop your question, dear Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u164	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I'll open a clamp. In the spirit of the political fairplay and because our main task is to protect the public interest and solve the problems, I would like to express to you, Mr. Minister, the satisfaction of mine and of the people from several settlements, that we are currently solving a few small but very important issues for them. In this spirit, I hope that we will continue to solve even more important and bigger problems that concern the region and are within the capabilities of the Ministry that you have managed. Now I'm going to put out my question about this emergency bridge at the river Iskar, the municipality of Gulyantsi, the village of Iskar. Dear Minister, my question concerns the ponton bridge of the Iskar River connecting the villages of Pleven: Iskar, Krushovene, Baykal and Slavovitsa. It is known that at the beginning of this year, February, the bridge was ripped off by an ice-truck that broke through its six units and carried it to the left bank of the river. The first emergency response was the attachment of the bridge to three trees where it was taken. Unfortunately, this is her condition at the moment. It is not insignificant that the bridge is a vital link for the above-mentioned settlements and was the way of people up to 15 thousand. acres of arable land. However, the immediate occasion on which I address you is the legitimate concerns and fears of the people of the danger that the bridge in this state really represents. It's about a 100-ton facility. Any change in atmospheric conditions associated with the rise in the level of the river carries the risk of turning the bridge into a threat to property and to the lives of the population. The approaching winter season in turn makes again a very real one-off February danger that the facility will be carried to the Danube River, where such a huge mass can cause really very serious damage, including sinking ships into the Danube River. Dear Minister, my question to you is: how will the security of the facility be ensured? Will action be taken to prevent and prevent damage? Do you also plan when the restoration of this vital transport link for the people in the area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u165	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. You have the floor to answer, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Burgeev! Experts of the Regional Road Management Pleven, and the specialized territorial unit of the Railway Infrastructure Agency, carried out a check on the subject mentioned in your question. It was found that the settlements Krushovene, Slavovitsa, Iskar and Baykal were not related to the road section of the Republican road network. Through the village of Slavovitsa, the village of Iskar and the village of Baykal do not pass Republican roads, as I mentioned. The Republican road network in this area is located two bridge facilities on road 3.3004, near the village of Orehovitsa, and on the second-class road 2.11 near the village of Gigen and the village of Baikal. Both facilities are massive, concrete, have not been avronized in February 2017. Those who are owned and maintained by the Road Infrastructure Agency. The expert opinion is that it is most likely a facility located in a road section between the settlements of Krushovene and Slavovitsa. This time, however, it is local and under the Roads Act the Road Infrastructure is not committed to its management and maintenance and in this sense does not have information about the condition of the facility. If you have one, I'll really ask you to provide it. The two bridge facilities in the section that you mentioned are maintained by the Road Infrastructure Agency. I will repeat myself, on the third-class road 3.3004 between the village of Orehovitsa and the second-class road 2.11 near the village of Gigen and the village of Baikal, are in good condition, even in a very good operational condition and have not occurred in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u167	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Burgeev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. Even though the answer does not provide a prerequisite for a decision, you have nevertheless made some clarity. I will take a closer look at the case and see what relationship and what more detailed information we can draw and bring forward to prevent any serious problems that this facility may create. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u169	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. Would you like to use the backrest, Mr. Secretary? No, okay. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev about the cessation of drinking water supply in the village of Bernitsa, Slivnitsa municipality, Sofia district. Here you are, Mr. Chenchev, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Let me start my question for you like this. As my colleague, I am grateful that you always respond to issues that are really serious problems in the various areas of the country. In this case, I will read to you something that will then give your attention, from the residents of the village of Bernitsa, Slivnitsa municipality, Sofia district. They have written a signal that they have addressed except to the mayor, to the Ombudsman and to several other institutions. In it, these people have literally recorded "SOS". You can see [[Shows the letter.]] He's like this. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in In our village for more than two months there is no drinking water. Maybe you've been reported to have one and delivered under some kind of advert mode, but that's a complete lie. That's what we wrote on the ad itself, which is hanging in the village shop, but unfortunately no one cares. They're putting it in all kinds of hours for 20 or 30 minutes, some churchy, dirty waters, and I quote, which we pay for sure with the air that moves loudly in the pipes. Imagine if a child opened the fountain at this time and drank this water, what would happen! Not that when we had water, it was quality because it was supplied by etheric tubes and you yourself decide what its quality is. After that, the people of the village of Berzenitsa, who are reading the meetings that they have held and the repeated attempts to solve this thing as a problem. They were following checks on several properties, selected by whom we do not know. The checkers were digging in gardens, in cocoons, but they didn't leave any protocols. We did not understand exactly what they checked and what they found. I'm gonna have to ask you to clarify. Even if there are several ccs of water that is harvested every day, the same is not distributed equally. You never know where he's going. There's a fountain in the village that's on property, almost on the street, without a water meter. There's constant water there. The neglect continues. Some people, they are very few, just units, residents of the village, have water for several hours, others 4-5 days do not have or have only 4-5 drops of dirty water. Speaking of dirty water, I was there, with people, for the signal, this is the water, look at the dirty pieces in it. [[Shows a bottle of water.]] This was given to me by the residents. I don't know if it's okay, it's better to examine its contents, because it's drinking water. All this leads to opposition to the people of the village, which is extremely undesirable for our good neighbourly relations. That is why we are deeply concerned. Winter season is coming.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u171	Get to the point, Mr. Chenchev, time is running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u172	My question is what measures have you taken. I will then give your attention 91 signatures to the residents.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr. Chenchev! The water supply to the village of Bernitsa, Slivnitsa municipality, is carried out by a shaft well, with water from the well through a pumping station being fed to a pressure tank 75 cubic. The permanent residents of the village are 81 people and 34 subscribers are registered, who during the summer months are significantly increasing to 98 seasonal subscribers, respectively because of the villas and people who in the summer months return to their home village. The maximum operating flow rate of the well is 0,8 l/s and during the summer period it falls to 0,3 l/s. because of the high temperatures and the little precipitation. In order to cover high needs and due to an increase in population from residents temporarily staying during the summer period, including in September, within which the alert was also made, it concerns the summer months.. July and August, due to an increase in population from residents temporarily staying during the summer period, the required water quantity is about 80 cubic. m. Due to the reduced flow of the water source by order of the mayor during the summer months a water supply regime has been imposed for the settlement. Since the beginning of the introduction of the regime of VIK Ltd. Sofia, I have been provided with two number of watermen. This information is provided to me, located in the center of the village, as well as mineral water is provided, again under the VIK operator. The internal plumbing network of the village is 2300 m long, the water supply is 1200 m long and the water supply is 150 m long. In 2014 the municipality of Slivnitsa has implemented a project under the program of the Fund of Agriculture, under which 1430 m internal plumbing network were replaced, and the adjoining deviations of about 450 m are jointly replaced by Vic Ltd. Sofia. On average, 47% loss of water was reported for the nine months of 2017. It is precisely to reduce these losses, and to reduce the possibility of accidents and similar regimes, the Municipality of Slivnitsa has prepared a project to replace the water supply and secondary plumbing network and has applied for funding at the Environmental Management Company, as the Municipality of Slivnitsa is the owner of the infrastructure, water systems and facilities in the territory of the village of Bernitsa. Regional pre-investment studies are currently being developed. This is something that in the Ministry we do in the management for applying for funding from the Operational Programme "Environment" for those sites from the territory of the country, which have consolidated territories and with equivalent residents over 10 thousand, i.e. large settlements. Since in this case the village has a population of even less than 100 inhabitants, funding opportunities can be sought only from the state budget, from the municipal budget, from the Enterprise for Management of Environmental Protection activities or investment under the program of the VIK operator. As I understand it, even in the new programmes under the Rural Development Programme, which concern settlements below 2000 equivalents, in which the category falls and the village will not finance VIC projects, unfortunately. However, for the real solution of the problem of meeting increased consumption, a study of new alternative water sources is needed. I mentioned what is the flow rate and capacity of the current one. I will get to know the situation even more seriously on the spot, but the information provided to me by the VIC operator is that even in the summer months when there was a water supply regime, continuous water supply was carried out through water and mineral water for domestic use and mineral water for drinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u175	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Chenchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, dear Minister! I was in the village, as I said. There was one, and the water flowing from it was no different than the one I showed you just now. People know that. I'm in constant contact with them. And to date, there is such a problem, although thanks to you, as far as I know, measures have already been taken on this matter. Of course, residents are extremely sensitive about the subject. They also asked me through the stands of the National Assembly to ask for another alternative captage to be considered in this direction, because the current one is really tied to the river, but in the summer months it turns out that it is impossible to have a normal water flow rate, not to mention that the current captage was highly contaminated, had to be cleaned. The moment I was there about two weeks ago, this has not yet been done. I'm sure you'll take the attitude. Of course, I'll go back to a place to see if the residents are satisfied. I reserve the right to ask my question again. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Would you like to use the backrest, Mr. Secretary? No. We move on to the next question, and he is from the MP Manol Trifonov Genov regarding the extension of the ring road of the town of Plovdiv from the road node of Tsaratsovo to the connection with the road of Plovdiv. Here you are, Mr. Genov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! My question is about the extension of the ring road of the city of Plovdiv. The term is such, otherwise this time it is from several sections with different classifications on the Republican road network. In fact, this is from the first stop of Plovdiv to the road Plovdiv, where Asenovgrad enters this ring road. In recent years, the Ministry you led in the face of the Road Agency has carried out a series of actions for the realization of this project. A procedure was opened and completed under the Public Procurement Act for the preparation of an ideal and technical project for bringing these sections to the G20 gauges. The aim of the task was to explore at least two possibilities for the realization of such an extension along this extremely busy road. At the beginning of 2015, as I recall, the API entered into a contract to draw up an environmental impact assessment report for this site. It was subject to public consultation in 2016. My question to you is this: when do you plan to complete all the procedures needed to implement this project? Can you specify real deadlines for launching its implementation, of course, after preparing a technical project for its implementation and approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u179	Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u180	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Genov! At this stage, the Road Infrastructure Agency, respectively, and I, in a personal capacity, cannot commit myself to specific deadlines for the completion of the technical project procedure for the site and the start of construction due to the following circumstances, you know them very well, by the way. Only an ideal project is available for this section, you mentioned. An extension of existing sections of road III-805 is envisaged, 4,120 km long and II-86 road, 14,750 km long. An exception makes the stretch of road II-86, 2,300 km long, which will develop on an entirely new terrain. It's on the idea project. The final development will become clear when we have a technical project ready. An EIA report has been drawn up for the site and a decision has been given to the Ministry of Environment and Water. The decision was appealed, which led to a significant delay in subsequent procedures, unfortunately, in the preparation of a technical design and material security of the site. Since 28 June, the good news is, you know, this year the EIA decision came into force. From now on, the development of a technical project is hindered by numerous requests for investment in the area of the site and the desire to access the existing route of road II-86. These problems of municipalities came to the fore and for the section of road II-86, which is currently in construction. You know, we predict localities, we design them and build them in parallel with the repairs. All of this requires the need to change the concept of designing the section set out in the idea project, change the type of crossings with the cross-country and municipal roads and include the design of local sails. Let's not get into the situation in Plovdiv's hypothesis as we are now in Asenovgrad. If we're gonna do something, let's do it quality and, as they say, once. In view of the overall solution of the road section at the stage of designing and solving the issues with the construction of the local sails, the Road Infrastructure Agency is already holding three, by the way, next week we have a fourth working meeting on the topic with the stakeholders. We need to clarify with them the overall vision for an extension of the ring road of the town of Plovdiv in this part. As conditional as it may sound, we assume that Plovdiv's ring path is in this part and the distribution of commitments between the countries. It is only then that we can proceed to the following procedures - the development of a final technical project and the PSU - PP, a parcel plan, in line with the decisions taken by these working meetings, proceed to alienation of the affected properties and the preparation of a comprehensive report to assess the essential requirements for the construction and technical control under Part............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Upon completion of these procedures, the Agency may proceed to the selection of contractor and construction. I will be able to answer specifically, indeed, in the specifics of your question, as I do not want to make commitments that do not depend either on my will or on the speed of work of my colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency. When we choose the final vision for a technical solution, when the design of the final technical project is entrusted, then we will have clarity, with all the conditionality based on the appeal under the Public Procurement Act, then we will have clarity and a clear linear timetable for the deadlines we will engage in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u181	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor, Mr. Genov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u182	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I want to tell you an unpleasant statistic about this particular area. From 1 January 2016 to 1 June 2016 this area has had 188 traffic accidents. Unfortunately, there were 51 injured in these accidents. And to the greater regret, four people died. I would like to say about the extreme importance of this section because it provides the transport flow from Sofia, Pazardzhishka, part of a Plovdiv region through Trakiya, for Kardzhali and Smolyan region, and part of a Plovdiv region where traffic, transport flow is exclusively on wheels. Make every effort, make sure that this black statistic gets smaller. You only see as human damage to what happened in a year and a half. I don't want to talk about the material damage caused by these 200 traffic accidents in just a year and a half. Calculate the project like this: let's not save money. You have made a confession just now that the project has been mutilated. You know very well why and how this happened. I don't want to comment on it now, but let's not make this mistake when designing this particular area. Yeah, now, I hope by December 31st that what you talked about will happen, but the mutilated things, the locals, the access of business to the road. Let's not make that mistake again, then ask ourselves questions again, look for answers that have no solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u183	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, I will start from where you have finished the crippled project I mentioned: Plovdiv "Asenovgrad." I think that in the process of working, you are very well aware of it, we are removing the vices and gaps that were already at the stage of designing the localities, the access specifically of the business, the employees in the industrial area between Plovdiv and Asenovgrad, to the new project and to the new rehabilitated and built track. I'm sure you at least realize that. Regarding the statistics you have read, we are also familiar with this statistics. In the main part of the answer to your question, I mentioned all the actions we are taking. I have not been able to commit myself and I do not want to make commitments to you from this high tribune for deadlines that will not be fulfilled. I mentioned, because of the inability at the time of the Road Infrastructure Agency and of all those involved in the process, in the good sense of the word involved, competent institutions, as we have to choose the project path and the technical project. If we have to turn back time, let's take 2006. There were no EIAs yet, if all these procedures of design, of alienation, of drawing up the plots had started then, we would not be commenting at the moment on what we would start. For example, 2006, 2007, 2008, if these things had started then. It's good that we're starting them, and not only are we starting them, but with a thought I mentioned earlier. You realize that, too. Let's make the project so that it balances all interests: public, public, transit through the ring road of Plovdiv. This is not the most direct link between the capital and the Smolyan region, for example, the district centre of Smolyan and all economic entities along this part of the ring road of Plovdiv. This is the third time I'm going to say it, and I'm convinced you're making a clear assessment, and we're putting in a lot of effort to make it work. The important thing is to start, to put things in the right track, to make efforts together with local administrations that will help alienate and give their overall vision based on the plans they have, and the detailed planning they have adopted, to expand the economic and business area within the scope of this ring road, so that we can choose the best solution and be able to start with its real implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u185	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's move on to the next question. He is again from Mr. Genov on the readiness of the Road Infrastructure Agency to secure the winter maintenance and snow cleaning of the Republican road network. Here you are, Mr. Genov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u186	Dear Minister, once again a question. Dear Mr President, honourable Members, we know that the Road Infrastructure Agency is the owner of about 20 thousand. km of Republican road network. The weather is nice, warm, the roads are clear, but winter awaits. My question is: what is the readiness of the Road Infrastructure Agency for the autumn-winter 2017 season 2018? What are the estimated estimates of the Agency's expected costs with regard to snow cleaning and road maintenance in winter conditions on all Republican roads? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u187	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u188	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, the weather is really sunny now, but three weeks ago we had a crisis situation and I think we did well, but we don't give ourselves an assessment. Maybe I'll work on the subject with her in the back of my head. The Road Infrastructure Agency has created the necessary organisation for adequate and rapid response to actions under poor weather conditions. We have mentioned the introduction of a winter maintenance regime for Republican roads. There is complete coordination and interaction with all involved structures and contractors in winter maintenance, as well as coordination of actions where the aggravated winter environment affects more than one administrative area, i.e. regional road management. The maximum effort shall be made and all measures shall be taken to ensure that the operating state of the lanes in winter conditions meets the accepted degrees and level of winter road maintenance. The Road Infrastructure Agency has established an organisation to prepare and maintain Republican roads in winter conditions and the necessary measures have been taken to ensure traffic safety. In the period of this week, from 23 to 27 October, an examination of the readiness of the equipment, the availability of aggregates and salts shall be carried out prior to the introduction of winter maintenance under the contracts with the supporting companies, as well as a check relating to the non-intervention of snow-cleaning equipment for the Republican and municipal road networks. This check is carried out in each of the twenty-eight regional road governments in the country. Companies will be checked monthly and sanctioned under maintenance contracts if we find a corresponding violation of these contracts and non-compliance with the principles laid down therein. In accordance with the approved plans, a little over 3000 machines, including loaders, snowploughs, sand sprayers, combined machines, rotor snowplows, auto graters, lugo sprayers and others will be included in winter maintenance. The payment of winter maintenance activities will be made on the basis of unit cost of a clean road unit which is determined by the level of maintenance of the relevant road section. There are four levels, I guess you know, of maintaining depending on the intensity of the movement and the category of the road. The monthly reporting of the works will take into account the actual length of the supported roads and monthly averages, correlation factors. These correlation factors are obtained on the basis of daily correlation factors from 0.3 to 0.5 determined according to atmospheric conditions and the condition of the pavement. The estimated funds for winter maintenance of Republican roads are indicative of between 60 and 80 million. lv. depending on the winter conditions. An inter-agency working meeting was held with the participation of representatives of the Road Infrastructure Agency, the Directorate General of National Police and the Directorate General of Fire Safety and the Protection of the Population and, of course, the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration on the coordination, interaction and engagement of each of the countries, control of vehicles and their ability to move in winter conditions. An order has been issued by the Chairman of the Management Board of the Agency of Road Infrastructure, which is agreed with the Directorate-General of National Police and the Directorate-General of Fire Safety and Population Protection and the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration on the organisation and control of the movement to ensure normal passage on the Republican road network during the autumn-winter season 2017 "2018" Of course, an Interdepartmental headquarters has been established in which representatives of these institutions and regional governors are involved. The aim is to improve coordination between structures and to take concrete measures to ensure the normal passage of the Republican road network during the winter season, to prepare, of course, plans for winter maintenance of the Republican road network at regional road managements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u189	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Genov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, you said in your reply a very important word "coordination." It seems to me that last year, during the first two heavy snowfalls, she was missing. Let coordination be such that we do not complain that truckers and heavy truck drivers do not listen and pass here and there, and we cannot stop them. Who can stop them? The Road Police Department. With no coordination with them, last year we closed highways, closed first-class roads for a not-so-poor snowfall that is characteristic of our geographical latitudes over the years. For two weeks, journalists couldn't find a minister to ask him what was going on. This year at the first snowfall, why did Petrohan and the other passageways close? Because the trees, the bushes and the branches fell?! One of your predecessors was having fun saying about another one of her predecessors cut and gave money for branches and shrubs in the waitout on the road. The branches and bushes, Mr. Minister, in the waitout on the road and beyond are extremely important in heavy snow and heavy snow. Why did Petrohan close? Because branches and trees fell, not that there was a big snow. There's still time. Take serious measures also where the vegetation is in the waitout on the road where there are trees even outside it, and they threaten traffic and traffic on these roads, the twenty-eight regional road managements concerned to take measures through contracts, if they do, of course, to maintain the road. Let them cut out the bushes and trees so they don't get white in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u191	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u192	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Genov, I only beg you not to force us to commit unlawful acts. You said out of the waitouts on the road. Slope, ground slope in Petrohanski Pass.. 2.5 m waitout on the road. Trees from over 50 meters off the road fell on the road. By the way, the Director of the District Road Management of Montana is not to say investigative, but a prosecutor's check has been carried out against him for exactly what you recommend. I very much hope that you did not recommend him to cut trees and bushes outside the waitress, as there is no such right legally regulated, unfortunately. Once again, I mention the cutting of such shrubs, rather trees, in this case we are talking about large beech trees in the Petrohan Pass. He claims to have been cleaning them in the waitress, by the way, but the prosecution is currently checking against a Director of Regional Road Management exactly what you are advising me to do. The fact is that the snow was not so heavy, at the second hour the roads in Beklemeto, Troyan, Kurnare, and Petrohan were on asphalt. But the fact is that due to the still unoccupied leaf mass, heavy snow caused the fall not only of bushes and branches but of whole trees. Therefore, it was most appropriate and logical for these passages to be closed so that we would not create an emergency situation which we did. Within twenty hours, we dealt with Beklemeto at 40 o'clock with Petrohan. By the way, not only in heavy goods vehicles, you are absolutely right, so we are doing our best to improve and create quality and effective coordination between all those involved in the winter maintenance process both from the point of view of the control bodies and from the point of view of the Road Infrastructure Agency. More than 70% of cars, despite the four-day warnings previously of the Road Infrastructure Agency, were with summer tires for heavy weather conditions with stable snowfalls in the Stara Planina Passes. So the process is bizarre. The state has created the necessary coordination. Yes, we can always do more and better, but we need a little conscience and understanding from road vehicle drivers to assess the complexity and really heavy environments that could be created on the basis of weather conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u193	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov regarding the connection of the road I-7 Silistra Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! My current question is dictated by both commitments made by voters in the area and my personal impressions, traveling along the road in question. Just to remind you that two years ago the section of the highway was launched between the villages of Panayot Volov and Belokopitovo. During the construction, a connection was built on road I-7 Silistra, Shumen, which connected this road with the highway of Hemus in the area of the village of Panayot Volov. After completion of the construction and commissioning of this section of the highway "Hemus", the relationship in question, which is the fastest and most convenient for travelers in the direction of Silistra and travelers from Silistra to Shumen to connect to the motorway "Hemus" in the direction of Varna, was flooded with gravel and inert materials and is currently not functioning. My question is: are you familiar with this case and do you intend this relationship, which will greatly facilitate and facilitate travelers in the direction of Varna, who come from Silistra or Shumen on route I-7, to be put into service, because ultimately for this connection, Minister, are spent funds, in no way is it compromised its integrity, can it be used? What is your view in this direction, because people are interested in being able to use this shortcut to the highway of Hemus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u195	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u196	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, the road connection on the road I-7 Silistra Upon completion of the construction, the link that exists at the site at the moment becomes the milestone connection of the highway "Hemus" so that the newly built section can benefit from the citizens of the state from all passing. With the construction of the next section of the highway of Hemus "from km 337+302, this is a road node "Belokopitovo" up to km 343+200 the need for this connection is removed. She remained in this condition to be in support of the Road Infrastructure Agency, police, fire and fire defence in distress situations. That'll end the answer to the question. This was a phased link, used as a temporary link in the construction process. Naturally, due to the fact that a resource is put into it, it is also left as an alternative in emergency and in distress situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u197	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u198	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I believe that the decision to stay in this relationship is a very ridiculous solution, as the built road hub of Belokopitovo.To this day, it makes it difficult for travelers, trying to find its direction for Varna, for Ruse, for Sofia. A lot of travelers get confused all the time. I appeal to you to reconsider this decision of your predecessor, because it is not yours, and find a way to put this relationship into service, because it does not make it difficult to move either in the direction of Silistra or in the direction of Shumen, and will make it easier for travelers to drastically reduce the distance of those who want to engage in the motorway. Someone's engineering thought made it extremely complicated, I wouldn't call it a clover. Then it was called a diamond, if I'm not mistaken. Road traffic accidents happen there every day. To a large extent, this will ease the travelers themselves and reduce future accidents on this road node. I therefore appeal to you to find a way to rethink your policy and to put this road link into service, because it does not in any way make it difficult for traffic on the I-7 route. On the contrary, it will relieve the very coming from Shumen who want to board the highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u199	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Would you like to use a hole, Mr. Secretary? No. The questions to Minister Nankov were also closed with this issue. We move on to the following questions, which are to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. At the request of Mr. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov there is a shift. Mr. Valchev will take the questions as Mr. Biser Petkov is in a meeting that will be over soon. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman, I also appeal to you and to the management of the ministers, who were in the order of control, especially Minister Petkov, to whom we have an extremely important question about the payment in the social sphere............................................................................ for the next parliamentary control to be envisaged as first, naturally after the Deputy prime ministers. If this delay is now realized and you are not planning it first, it means hiding the minister or running away from responsibility to respond to an extremely sensitive sphere of people being employed in the social spheres that are currently at the bottom. I trust that you will inform the management as a whole, together with the President and the alternates, you will decide this, it is within your powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. What you have presented as a question in the procedure, the President of the National Assembly and the Conference of Presidents will take it into account in ordering the ministers in parliamentary control. We are now going to ask questions to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev. The first question is from the National Representative Donka Dimova Simeonova about the need for pedagogical advisors, psychologists, resource teachers and logos in the system of preschool and school education. Here you are, Mrs. Simeonova, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! At the heart of the philosophy of the Law on pre-school and school education, the issue of settling public relations related to inclusive education is raised. Therefore, the Law requires that every kindergarten and school director establish a team of personal support specialists for each child and student. Of course, this need comes not only and not so much from the regulations, but from the obvious key role played by psychologists, pedagogical advisors, resource teachers and logos in inclusive education. We, the members of the Committee on Education and Science from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria and the other MPs of the districts, hold a number of meetings throughout the country under the title "For the week of education', at which meetings we discuss the problems of preschool and school education and look for ways to solve them. There is no meeting where there is no question of the need for pedagogical advisors, psychologists, resource teachers and logos. Of course, other questions are asked immediately. Firstly, the need for funds in delegated budgets, especially in small towns, to find these states. The other question that arises: if he has the means, will he have the necessary specialists, because it turns out that in some areas, for example, a speech engineer cannot be found? And hence the question that some directors appoint individuals who are not qualified for the specialties. That's where the question arises: what will be the control? Therefore, Dear Minister, I ask you to answer the question: what conclusions are drawn in the Ministry of Education and Science on the number and qualification of psychologists, pedagogical advisors, resource teachers and logos working during the 2017 academic year? And then what measures will the Ministry take to ensure the necessary measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u204	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Simeonova, the Preschool and School Education Act regulates that the institutions in its system provide support for the personal development of children and students together with state and local authorities and structures, as well as social service providers. Thus, they themselves develop and implement comprehensive policies for the development of the school community. Children and students are provided with support for personal development that provides an appropriate physical, psychological and social environment for developing their abilities and skills. This support shall be applied in accordance with the individual educational needs of each child and student. For its implementation in kindergartens and schools can work psychologist, pedagogical advisor, speech teacher, social worker and resource teachers. Teamwork between teachers and other pedagogical specialists in their work with the same children and students aims to enhance the effectiveness of pedagogical approaches. According to our data in September this year, the total number of specialists appointed during the 2017 school year 2018 to support the personal development of children and students is 2661 people, of them psychologists are 614, resource teachers As for the qualification that you have also raised as a question, improving the qualification is a continuous process of improving and enriching the competence of pedagogical specialists. According to the National Program, 26 thousand have been trained by the Ministry of Education and Science. 387 pedagogical specialists. This creates conditions for improving the quality of preschool and school education and allows for the realization of young people. In this way, policies are synchronised with regard to increasing their competence in relation to the legal, institutional and social environment of the educational system. The measures and activities envisaged for implementation in 2017 are oriented towards the continuing qualification of pedagogical specialists and the trainings offered are in line with the specifics of the posts held. Since the beginning of 2018, the Ministry of Education and Science has provided for an additional 7 million. lv. by budgets of educational institutions to provide more educators and pedagogical advisors in schools. Priority will be given to them in areas with a shortage of such specialists. What schools will have is close to 30 leva. to any student with whom they will be able to organise only this kind of support for psychologists and pedagogical advisors. Apart from that, schools, municipalities, regional centres of inclusive learning, depending on how this support is chosen, receive resources for resource support. Separately provided as part of the cost standards and means of logopedic support. There is no doubt what you said that realizing the concept of general and additional support for support for each child from a team of pedagogical and other specialists is one of the most important for both the child and the overall school environment. This concept must be implemented, extended as budgetary funding, including with the following budgets. With regard to the 2018 draft budget, what will probably be proposed to the National Assembly shall be taken at least two steps. One is which I have already mentioned with regard to pedagogical advisors and psychologists, and the other is the resource teachers who worked on the Project for Inclusive Education, funded by the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" to be financed and reassigned at the expense of the budget, and the educational institutions will be given funds for this purpose. Indeed, a number of areas cannot find specialists, in many schools the number of children is small. Cases that require support do not imply a full - time commitment. The important thing in this case is to find, together with the municipality or regional centres for inclusive education, the most effective model. You know that...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u205	Time, Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u206	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u207	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mrs. Simeonova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u208	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. It is no doubt that the role of psychologists, pedagogical advisors, resource teachers and logopeds is key to implementing inclusive education, both to discover the need for support, as well as to communicate between team members and participants in this process, also to deal with aggression and harassment, as well as to cooperate with the family and other institutions concerned. Thank you for your reply and especially for providing targeted funds because some of the directors share, especially in small towns, that the main reason is the lack of funds in the delegated budget. The approach is correct and perhaps you should think in this direction. The best option is, of course, to have a team of specialists in each school. I also pay attention in kindergarten because my fellow kindergarten principals say that problems start from early childhood and need to be diagnosed and handled. Of course, it is best in any institution to have them teams, but since this is impossible, at this stage it is actually going towards at least one being appointed to several institutions, or a good option is, apart from regional ones, to also have municipal support centres that cover smaller settlements. Unfortunately, however, the other question that we have raised and which you also share is that there are no necessary specialists. Perhaps you should also consider how these professions should be made attractive to younger people in order to participate in them. As options for this, I again raise the question that psychologists and pedagogical advisors raise about the more complete clarification of the status, working conditions and activities of psychologists and pedagogical advisors and other specialists. Also in higher education institutions to find a way to stimulate those who offer these specialties and the ways in which they are studied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u210	I'll take this opportunity to finish what I couldn't. And after receiving these funds, some of the smaller schools will not be able to organise this support themselves. In the coming years, we should even consolidate all the funds for general support for speech, psychological, resource. We will make an observation, perhaps at the beginning of next year, to what extent this support is provided, and can be provided in different areas of the different schools and kindergartens, as you say, because the fact is that in smaller, more peripheral municipalities from the district center is more difficult to organise under equal conditions this support. Perhaps it is appropriate to provoke the municipalities themselves to set up centers for personal support, perhaps one in several municipalities. We have cases where a hospital serves three municipalities or a professional high school has surrounded itself around two or three or four smaller municipalities further away from the district centers. The Preschool and School Education Act provides for such an opportunity for one municipality to assign support to another for personal development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u211	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on the personnel policy of the regional education management in Shumen. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! This issue is dictated by a number of meetings, conversations with representatives of education in Shumen, I am talking about directors, teachers, meetings that we had organised as MPs, not only myself, but also colleagues who are in the field of education. The question is clear: is the staff complete and is the head of the Regional Education Management able to fulfil its legal obligations without violations? Are the competitions for the appointment of directors in the territory of Shumen District being held? I'll give you the preliminary information I've collected to see if it matches what you're about to export. My information is that as of 1 October 2017 of 22 staff members are employed around 10. One chief, eight experts in subjects, half a number for drivers, one secretary who, according to my information, has been promoted to a chief specialist, one specialist.............. two accountants. At the same time, officials from the Regional Management of Education are leaving mass. It's not in the subject of the answer, but if you have information, tell me from now acting head of RIO Shumen, how many punished directors are there and why, for what reasons? My information is that the same schools are being checked. My question is also: why, having had the lowest success in national external assessment for the fourth grade for the academic year 2016 - 2017, has the expert been promoted, albeit temporarily, to the head of the department of education and control? Because I've been following the trials, there's been no announcement for a long time for experts and department chiefs, it makes me think that maybe these jobs and this structure should be shut down. At the same time, when there are enough staff, including unemployed young people who have the necessary censure, retired directors are appointed. To a large extent, in my opinion, and not only mine, but also a number of representatives of education, the former Inspectorate, that is, Regional Education Management has become a party feeder in practice. Mr. Minister, I look forward to hearing your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u213	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u214	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, at present as you mentioned, the state number of the Regional Management of Education is 21 stats, of which 5 are not employed. By my orders are announced competitions for the position of Senior mathematics expert, Senior expert in Bulgarian language and literature. Yesterday I literally signed the order to announce the competition Head of the Department of Administrative and Legal, Financial and Commercial Information Services. We are about to announce a competition for the position of Senior-Expert in the organization of secondary education. With regard to the fifth unoccupied position, I am informing you that the position of Head of Department of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The procedure enables employees meeting the requirements under the Ordinance on the conditions and arrangements for assessing the performances of employees in the State Administration who are experienced in the Regional Management of Education and are aware of the specific nature of the specific activity to be increased by taking a higher position and to increase their motivation in the performance of their duties. During the calendar year 2017 in the territory of Shumen district, as well as in the other districts, no competitions were announced for the occupation of the Director of an educational institution. I would like to inform you that during this year they have been appointed to a competition on the basis of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1, t. 4 of the Labour Code Directors of six municipal schools in the district. I am cautious to make assessments of the activities of the heads of regional governments based on their filled state numbers. I will just tell you that in September, before the start of the school year, when the free teaching positions were completed, we had over 35 applications for termination of employment in regional education departments. This is more than 6% of the state number of all regional education governments. I didn't do statistics, but I don't have surveillance, it's concentrated only in Shumen and Regional Education Management. This is because, as I told you, in September, positions were taken, on the other hand, coincided with the increase in teachers' salaries, which made the work in educational institutions in terms of pay comparable, in some cases even more desirable than that in regional education governments. Of course, this presents to us the task of looking for opportunities through the new budget to increase remuneration at the Regional Education Administrations. But I would like to tell you that this is not only in Shumen, but also in all the Regional Managements of Education. The problem with taking office. Several contests ended without any candidates. In many cases, the candidate is one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u215	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I think that once again I have asked you several times and written questions about the activities of the Regional Management of Education, you have provided us with information that you receive from the Head of the Regional Management of Education. In my opinion, you need to do a more detailed check. In this regard, I would like to ask you an additional question: has there been disciplinary proceedings against the head of the Regional Educational Management, Shumen, for what reason has it been filed and, if it has been terminated, why has this disciplinary proceedings been terminated? And one more question I'd like to ask you. [[Shows document.]] This is a written answer that I have received from you. It was most likely written by this very head of the Regional Education Administration. The answer to the question contains false and incorrect information. I would like to ask you.. Are you responsible because your signature sits here, in the back, on this thing as an answer, or the relevant director, i.e. Head of Regional Education Management, because this is an official document? I will provide you with the relevant evidence that you have presented false information here to the Members of the National Assembly. I do not blame you because I am convinced that you have received this information from the Regional Management of Education, but what is the reason why I will not let this issue end today, to submit false information? That question was about the dismissal of teachers and directors and so on. Here one of these dismissals has been missed and it is most likely related to the payment of certain amounts and benefits. In this matter, I see other amounts, not small, which have been paid. I want to ask: who is responsible for this thing because they are paid from the state budget and from the pocket of the Bulgarian taxpayer? This is literally a waste of state funds because these people have sued for these illegal dismissals, won cases, fired them again, and this is just another case I'm going to give you. I would really like to ask: introduce us, do a detailed check, and answer.... Was there such disciplinary proceedings and, if there was, what happened to it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u217	Thanks for the line, Mr. Ivanov. You have an opportunity for a doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u218	With regard to disciplinary proceedings, I was not asked in advance. My memories are yes, there was one, and it was terminated. A number of disciplinary proceedings in the Ministry end without disciplinary punishment. So this is one of the cases, but the specific motives I can't replicate to you right now. I'll get to know the materials you gave me. As far as I've heard from you, this is about a leak, not false information. I'll do that check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u219	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to the next question from the National Representative Tanya Todorova Petrova about a single mode of training in schools from the city of Varna without separate buildings. Here you are, Mrs. Petrova, to raise the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u220	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! In the implementation of the management program of the Political Party GERB and in accordance with the rules of the Law on pre-school and school education, the Ministry of Education and Science aims to introduce a single mode of training in all schools of the country until 2021. I understand that this process in large cities is difficult. As an MP from Varna, my question to you is: what specific actions has the Ministry of Education and Science planned with the management of Varna Municipality to change the educational infrastructure regarding the ten schools in the city that do not have separate buildings?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Petrova! The introduction of a single regime into school is part of our management program and part of one of the objectives in the system of pre-school and school education, regardless of which government. In order to provide conditions for the full-time organization of the school day by 2020, the Municipality of Varna has done research on the readiness of schools. In the next three years, internal reorganization of the available material base and optimization of the reception plan will be carried out. Working on the implementation of a planned project to move the Mathematical High School to Dr. Peter Beron in a new building to be built. To this end, assigned funds from the state budget will be allocated. The primary school of Zahari Stoyanov will thus be able to cover the need for the scope of the majority of compulsory education students in the district of Chaika. The proposals made by the Municipality of Varna are based on the ECGRAON database for the required scope for the 2017 academic year 2018 and 2018 - 2019. The Ministry of Education and Science has commissioned municipalities to prepare an assessment of the educational needs and infrastructure for the implementation of a full-time organization of activities in municipal schools and their transition to a single regime. Information from municipal schools on the need for additional classrooms and rooms to provide normal conditions for the holding of a full-time organization is exquisite. Individual meetings were held with the principals of schools to specify the needs and opportunities for each school, examined individually and in the context of school proximity, within the same administrative area. Schools combining a common building are working on designing and building new classrooms, as is the case with the Primary School of Georgy Sava Rakovski and the Primary School of Petko Slaveykov, who need to reduce their reception. Primary school "Zahari Stoyanov" remains only in the building after the construction and exposition of the Mathematical School. The use of the building of the Medical School Dr. Nikola Dimitrov will take over the reception of the students in the region after the admission of the primary school Zahari Stoyanov and the Primary school Georgi Sava Rakovski. Anton Strashimirov primary school, according to the director's declared position, can provide a full-time organization by optimizing the available material base as well as the admission to school. Ivan Vazov primary school, although it combines a joint building with another school, has free classrooms and the director's recommendation is to increase the quality of the educational process, to attract the trust of parents to enroll their children in school. This will ease the flow of willing parents to nearby schools. All directors have been made recommendations for internal reorganization of the reception in order to seal the available free building fund in the other schools. The Municipality of Varna has conducted a review of free terrains in the districts of Asparuhovo and Renaissance. In short, what we do as measures against all municipalities, and not only to the municipality of Varna, we do an analysis of the school infrastructure with a focus on the largest cities, where there are also the most schools of bilateral regime. Part of the schools will switch to one-way mode by reducing their reception. At municipality level there are generally plenty of seats. There aren't any in specific schools. Apart from that, a number of school buildings will be built in the coming years. In fact, these have been built in several municipalities in recent years. If in recent years the focus of the conversation was on the construction of new children's buildings, then in the coming years it will be on the construction of schools in the largest cities so as to expand the base. Undoubtedly in each city there is an opportunity of optimization.. what I also set out for the municipality of Varna: optimization between the non-specialized schools and regarding the material base of the professional high schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u223	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for the answer. A line? Here you go, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u224	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. My question was the requested measures and you very specifically outlined what will happen in the coming years in the municipality of Varna. You have used the expression "optimization of the plan" it is appropriate to add to it optimization of the school infrastructure in the city because in addition to the Mathematical School, the Natural Mathematical School and other professional schools, which have a common building with primary schools, in one future enjoy private buildings. Thanks again for the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. A hole? You don't. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Petar Boykov Vitanov on the appointment of school psychologists. Here you are, Mr. Vitanov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues, dear Mr. Valchev! On 16 October 2017 was held a conference on the topic of: "Partnership, school, parents." In the coverage of the work of the conference in the media was emphasized on the proposal from the next school year in all schools with over 400 students to provide psychologists. I believe that this initiative is correct. This is a responsible activity, but careful preparation of these psychologists should be made. By supporting this initiative, please, Mr. Valchev, answer the question: how many of the Bulgarian schools with over 400 students lack school psychologists; which institutions and what educational plans and programs will these psychologists prepare; how will they be motivated to start working at school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u227	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u228	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Vitanov! In the Preschool and School Education Act, as I said, one of the leading highlights is the inclusive education policy. It suggests that every child and student should develop its potential according to its strengths and achieve personal development, which most fully meets its needs in order to fulfil the role of pedagogical specialists supporting the inclusion of children and students becomes increasingly important. The Ministry of Education and Science has directed its efforts towards stimulating the directors of kindergartens and schools to appoint such pedagogical specialists. In order to achieve this, on the one hand, financial resources must be provided and, on the other, improved working conditions, which includes the introduction of career development, the specification of their professional status and the assessment of their work in accordance with the specific activities they perform. In this way we complement part of the answer that I did not give to Mrs Simeonova. There is an increase in the number of appointed psychologists and pedagogical advisors in kindergartens and schools in the system of preschool and school education. During the last year, there are 1529 psychologists and pedagogical advisors appointed at 988 schools who assist students if necessary. For the additional 7 million provided to the schools to provide psychologists and pedagogical advisors, we will also require all schools with over 400 students, as you mentioned, to appoint such specialists. This does not mean that only they will receive funds. All schools will receive funds depending on the number of students, but in these schools there will be a mandatory requirement to appoint at least one school psychologist or pedagogical advisor, and for schools with more students, and more than one. In the coming years, these funds must be increased and this limit must fall. What we have talked about in relation to Mrs Simeonova's question is to look for small settlements, smaller peripheral municipalities, to provide this assistance from municipal centers for personal support, which we hope will also happen with the expansion of funding. The activities of psychologists in educational institutions include providing general and additional support. Their duties, as well as the conditions for their appointment, are laid down in Ordinance No 12, in the State and the professional development of the teachers. The amendments and additions to Regulation No 12 are currently being prepared which are aimed at determining the career development of psychologists, pedagogical advisers and other pedagogical specialists for which none has been provided until now. The Council of Ministers adopted a new regulation on inclusive education, which creates more favourable conditions for carrying out inclusive education policies and providing support for the personal development of children and students by pedagogical specialists. To your specific questions: who will conduct the training? Psychologists are trained in higher schools, in the professional field of Psychology. What we can say about the analysis of reception in the last and previous years, we have good demand, or sufficient demand for higher education in this professional direction. Who will motivate them to participate as psychologists in educational institutions? We hope the reward, as they are part of the pedagogical collective, are also pedagogical specialists. They will be affected, in the positive sense of the word, by the increase in remuneration in the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u229	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Vitanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u230	Thank you, Comrade Chairman! Dear Minister, colleagues! It is clear from your answer that there is still a shortage of school psychologists in Bulgaria. It is a psychological profession and practice with great importance for the welfare of children and the whole society. The successful work of the school psychologist requires special training, preparation and training of professional skills. In our country, unfortunately, psychology is not a regulated profession and this allows specialists with a Bachelor's degree to work as school psychologists. Perhaps that is why in the Preschool and School Education Act, school psychologists were renamed pedagogical specialists. That is why I propose, Mr. Minister, that the Ministry of Education be responsible for preparing for the appointment of school psychologists, because in the 1980s there was such a tragic attempt to implement regulations for the presence of school psychologists without the relevant qualification and this caused lasting damage to the profession and the quality of Bulgarian education. Conscious of the importance of the decisions you are about to take and your own responsibility as MP and father, I provide you with information about two postgraduate qualifications at Sofia University (St. Kliment Ohridski) in pedagogical psychology and crisis psychological intervention conducted at the Philosophical Faculty and at the Faculty of Primary and Preschool Pedagogy. I think the Ministry of Education and Science can organise the training of future school psychologists in these postgraduate qualifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u231	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Do you have a duplicate, Mr. Minister, to Mr. Vitanov's line, or don't you?! This was the last question to Minister Valchev, because the other two issues recorded in today's parliamentary control were answered in writing. We move on to questions and questions addressed to Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Mr. Petkov, to you we begin with a question from the MPs Georgi Yonchev Gokov, Violeta Ruseva Zheleva, Dora Ilieva Yankova and Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova on the policy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, vision and commitments for specific decisions and actions regarding the status of employees employed in the field of and conducting the state social policy. Here you are, Mrs. Jeleva, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! Dear Mr. Minister, care and support to the most vulnerable group of the society. The people with disabilities, the children at risk, the elderly in a difficult life situation and everyone else in need, and responsibility is in the competence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Responsibility through which our country will be defined as a social state that protects fundamental human principles and rights. Every second or third Bulgarian citizen - more than three million people - needs social protection and assistance for social inclusion. In recent years, the number of these people has continued and will continue to grow. This puts social policy among one of several state policies that affect almost every Bulgarian family. This policy you form and execute through the specialists in your Ministry and in the special agencies and services to it. From these experts employed in the social sphere, you demand, and society rightly expects knowledge and competence in a wide range of areas. A good social policy needs and is achieved by experts with particular motivation. And not that left alone with themselves, the social workers don't handle it. On the contrary, they are making great efforts to cope with this complex situation. However, this is not a state-owned approach. Social workers once again united around a number of requests in their petition, signed by 2348 people, which I also supported. Their demands are for a fair increase in their salary, not the little you foresee, which will not even compensate for the rise in the minimum wage. But also a very important request of them is improving working conditions. Dear Minister, our question to you is: what policy and concrete actions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and, respectively, from you will you seek to solve the problems of people working in the social sphere? I also want to give you the social workers' petition in person, because as I go back, I see that every year they remain with empty promises. So I would like to hand it over to you and, in time, see if their problems will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. After you submit the petition, the minister has five minutes to respond, so please come in, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u234	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy makes efforts within its competence to strengthen capacity and enhance the status of both employees in its territorial structures and specialists and teams in social services. As you have noted, the work of social workers is one of the most difficult, as they face daily the worst problems of people. At the same time, employees of the Social Assistance Agency and territorial instructors work with very diverse regulations to ensure the social rights of citizens. That is why our efforts are primarily aimed at providing training, additional support and continuous improvement of the qualifications of the employees in the system. With regard to social services, it is important to clarify that municipalities as service providers have a regulatory commitment to provide training and opportunities for staff development by using both their own and external resources. In the context of the targeted policy for strengthening the capacity of the system, the updated Action Plan for the implementation of the National Strategy "Vision for the Deinstitutionalization of Children in the Republic of Bulgaria" adopted in 2016, provides for a number of measures for specialists working with children and young people, such as specialized programs for training, qualification and supervision of employees in social services for children. The draft Action Plan for the implementation of the National Strategy for Long-term Care also sets out activities to enhance the competences and professional qualities of specialists and teams working with adults with disabilities and elderly people. In support of these measures, the Agency for Social Assistance implements the project "Increasing the capacity of employees in the field of child protection, social services and social assistance" under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development 2014 " 2020 "One of the objectives of the project is to help build and upgrade the capacity of the implementation of key reforms in the social sector. The project lasts until the end of 2019 and has a budget of 28 million. lv. The Centre for Human Resources Development and Regional Initiatives at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy also annually provides opportunities for training on various topics to employees of the central and local administration working in the field of social policies and representatives of social partners, municipalities and NGOs and supports resource-based initiatives for cooperation, exchange of experience and other practices. For the second consecutive year, in order to maintain administrative capacity and to provide adequate remuneration to employees of the Agency for Social Assistance and other agencies to the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, an increase in staff funds is envisaged. The draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 contains additional funds of 9 million. 400,000. BGN, which will provide an opportunity for an average increase in salary to 10%, which will be a priority for the Agency for Social Assistance. The standards for social services in activities delegated by the State, which also include remuneration for staff in them, are also increased annually. For 2018, funding and social services are planned to be increased by 19 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. to those for 2017. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u235	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You can have two supplementary questions within two minutes. Here you are, Mrs. Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u236	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, from what we have heard in your reply, it is clear that several projects related to the qualification and supervision of workers in the social sphere have been provided for. There is an important problem to which we have not heard the answer to the question, and it is related to human resource management, the retention of the footage against the background of systemic stress and risk, frequent cases of off-duty work, the 24-hour availability for emergencies. I would like to focus on a few very important things that should radically change the policy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in terms of social work, because it is supportive, consulting, regulatory, related to a huge volume of paperwork. The reconciliation of all this implies his interdisciplinary preparation. In this regard, we believe that an urgent development of a national policy for the development of the profession is necessary. To make such labour standards skilling scales for staff and criteria for validization of the professional competences of employees in the social support system. It is necessary to change the evaluation approach of staff, to increase their remuneration, because if we go and see the current increase in minimum wage is of the order of 11%, and you are talking about an increase of 10%. So their wages, mainly the employees in this area, are close to the minimum wage! Is this the assessment of their work?! In our opinion, the vision and support of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy should be changed radically. In this respect, what are the additional measures outside and outside of payment? Because we believe that the working conditions and the very competences they must carry out are not equal to what they receive from the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. You have the floor, Minister, for answering the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u238	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zhekova, thank you for putting emphasis on this important aspect of the status of the profession of the social worker. I am convinced that with what you propose, we will work accordingly and look for solutions. Indeed, I have said already, and I will repeat it in the duplicate, that we appreciate the status of the social worker and make it possible to raise not only his qualifications but also his professional self-esteem. Let me make one point: the amount that I have indicated for an increase in the cost of staff of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is beyond the increase which is intended to increase the minimum wage and, accordingly, personal contributions, which also increase by one percentage point from next year. So that's 9 million. 400,000 are for an increase in the average wage and to achieve a certain differentiation, because you are right that most of the workers' salaries are close to the minimum wage. So, in order to be detained to be motivated to carry out the growing functions, because here I will point out that social workers have actively joined the teams that cover children in school and work for their detention, continuously and new tasks are assigned to this system accordingly. I, as Minister, will continue to put this issue to them to receive their fair assessment of the work they are doing. With regard to your proposal for the status of the social worker, work will continue to be done. I hope that the trend from last year and this year to increase the salaries of employees in the agencies at the Ministry because I do not want to underestimate the work of the other employees, the other workers in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy system will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u239	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now you have the floor to deal with the Minister's response. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u240	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister Petkov, we are asking about state policy in the state sphere and the quality of social policy. There is no dispute that for us, and I suppose for you, it concerns more than 15 500 people who are engaged. The general conclusion is, you know, you are also the head of this Ministry, you come from the Trilateral Council that the average salary on the ground is close to the minimum. In relation to all sectors, people employed in the social sphere have the lowest wages. In parallel with this I did the work, you know, in the specialized institutions of 460 BGN. up to BGN 620, nurse from 480 BGN up to BGN 580, doctors from 600 to 680 BGN, psychologists and educators from BGN 520 to BGN 600, nurses and hygienists from 460, minimum BGN 480. It is these low wages that require a look, a focus for a greater increase. I just met the uploaded to the Association of Municipalities' website and there I saw yes, 19.5 million is the increase, from 5 to 10, there are 13% in one place, differentiated. For 2017, the conclusion is that social workers remained poor, the poorest and with the lowest wages. For 2018, the average salary you announced it was BGN 510. The average salary will be close to the minimum. Yeah, it's going to increase, and it's going to grow by a little bit. We need and look for reservations to the budget, we will be extremely insistent in the room and we will propose an increase of more than 25%. Speak up, you run this sector, in the social sphere workers who offer social services, to see them as both quality and qualification, but there are living people working there. And these living people need dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. With the treatment of the minister's reply, the question ended as it was put forward. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Teodora Atanasova Halacheva and Mihail Ivaylov Hristov regarding the disability pensions of working citizens with disabilities. Here you are, Miss Halacheva, to present the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Petkov, our question is about the disability pensions of disabled people. To me and Mr. Hristov were concerned citizens regarding the reform you have prepared in the medical expertise of labour efficiency and disability pensions. A source of tension has leaked to the media mixed information, namely that some of the people are preparing texts with which they will practically be deprived of their disability pensions. They will be directed to the labour bureaus, but without guarantee of their employment. Another reason for the concern of citizens is the idea of taking away the disability pension of disabled people. According to lawyers, such a measure is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, where the right to social security is a separate constitutional right from the right to work. Exercise is nowhere depending on each other. Mr. Minister, our questions to you are: what guarantee will you give to people with reduced productivity that you will provide them with employment without depriving them of their disability pensions? And also: what will you do with working people with disabilities without breaking basic Bulgarian laws, including the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u243	Thank you, Miss Halacheva. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u244	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Halacheva, in August of this year an interdepartmental working group was formed at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy with the participation of experts from the National Insurance Institute, the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, the Employment Agency, as well as representatives of the national representative organizations of employees and employers. The task of the working group was to draft a concept to reform the system for expertise of workability. The draft concept was also discussed in the Working Group of the Minister of Health, which was tasked with drafting proposals to change the existing organisation of medical expertise. The draft concept was also discussed in the National Council for Medical Expertise on 25 October and in the implementation of this. 3 of the National Assembly's decision of 30 June will be presented to the National Assembly. According to the concept, the reform of the expertise of workability provides for the establishment of a new system, which will be determined by the current model of medical expertise. Medical expertise will determine the degree of damage and functional deficiency of organs and systems, and with the expertise of workability, respectively, the possibility of persons of working age and with established degree of disability and functional deficit of organs and systems to work. In this respect, it is necessary for both experts to be carried out by methodologies based on the principles and criteria for assessing health and disability as defined by the International Classification of Human functionality, disability and health of the World Health Organisation. The aim is to assess through a new approach the ability of the person with permanently reduced employability to work and the capacity for inclusion in the labour market, taking into account his education, qualification, knowledge and experience. This does not mean, however, that a person who works and who receives an invalidity pension will be deprived of the opportunity to receive it. I do not know where you actually have information about these ideas, but in the documents that are official and provided to the members of the working group, there are no such proposals. On the contrary, the aim of the reform is to improve the conditions for the realization of people with disabilities in the labour market and to increase the effectiveness of the funds and services provided with a view to raising their standard of living and not to limit the resources that society allocates to people with disabilities or to take away acquired rights, including pension. An important condition for the effectiveness of the proposed changes to the performance expertise system is synchronization with the envisaged changes in other systems. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that the concept is designed for the time needed to form and build the capacity of the new committees for the expertise of workability. During this time all necessary changes to the legislation will be adopted, new methodologies for the work of the committees will be developed, specialists will also be trained to work on these methodologies. Until then, it is necessary to carry out the organisation and management of the expertise activities to a degree of permanent reduced performance by the medical expertise committees of the Ministry of Health under the established order. That order should also remain in force until the actual launch of the Committees for Expertisation of Workability, so that discrepancies and deficiencies in guaranteeing the rights of disabled people and disruption of interactions between the different systems related to their service are not realised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u245	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u246	Dear Mr. Chairman, Minister Petkov, Members of the National Assembly! We are extremely relieved and satisfied with the answer, since although it is possible that the information was not accurate, it created public fear, especially in people with disabilities who are affected by such a topic. This is not the first time I have expressed a positive assessment of your work. Although we are in opposition, I express my personal opinion. For me you are really trying to make some change in the Social Ministry, and in the social sphere as a whole. However, we as a society and for us are important social cohesion and solidarity in society. Before I graduate, I would add something to the people with disabilities, it is not only important for the state to support them and give them this pension as compensation, but actually to the integration of those people with disabilities. As we know, gross domestic product is also based on labour. I am absolutely convinced that many people with disabilities, despite their disability, have the opportunity to find realization in the labour market. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u247	Thank you, Mr. Christov. You have the right to the back. Will you take advantage of it, Mr. Minister? No. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Georgi Yanchev Gokov on the annual update of pensions and the thousands of injured pensioners. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is that thousands of pensioners did not receive the promised indexation of pensions of 2.4% from 1 July. In response to the Committee on Labour and Social Policy during the blitzcontrol you gave some... you admitted the problem, but did not give details of what and how many pensions were affected. Later, at a press conference, you announced some data distributed by the media, of which it is not quite clear what led to this situation, what the size and the consequences of it were. As it would sound to you, but I'm going to define this situation as a grand gaffe and it's just absurd! Why? Because I'm going to quote the deputy prime ministers of your ruling coalition. They say: "I want to congratulate those 800 thousand Bulgarian citizens who will receive their pension increase from tomorrow to October 1st, the minimum pension is BGN 200. For a long time, I stress the fact that one of the most disadvantaged groups in Bulgaria is placed in in ineligible social conditions. And they mention something like our long-term battle for the rights of our mothers and fathers, who will now suddenly feel a real change in their standard of living. Well, Mr. Minister, there are those pensioners who have contributed much more to the insurance system than those to whom you increased their pensions by 20 percent, and you didn't give them the miserable 2.4%. Do they not deserve to lead, I quote: a battle for their rights? Aren't they, again, our mothers and fathers? It is even more cynical that you rejected our proposal for amendments to the Social Security Code for recalculating all pensions based on average social income for 2013 under the pretext that you would increase the minimum pensions of everyone else by 2.4% and even, Mr. Minister, I would remind you that you had signed the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, with which you rejected this proposal on the pretext that you would increase everyone by 2.4%. And, Minister, the questions: please answer why didn't thousands of pensioners receive their pension indexation according to the Social Insurance Code by 2.4% from 1 July? What is their number of affected? How much does it cost to compensate for those pensioners' pensions? Do you intend to make up for the wrongful pensioners and how? And all I'm saying is that this is obviously not about an NSI error, but a problem that hasn't been identified in a timely manner. Who and how will take responsibility for this? Questions, Mr. Minister, who are waiting for their answer and you owe it not only to them, but to the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u249	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u250	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, the recalculation of pensions on the basis of § 53, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code of 2015, which was applied for the first time on 1 July 2017, as opposed to the update of the Swiss rule under art. 100 of the Social Security Code does not constitute an increase in the old amount of pensions by a specific percentage. It is a new calculation of the initially defined amount of pension with a higher burden of years and months, which are considered as an insurance service, for 2017, you know that it is 1,126 percent, on which all other updates and recalculations are then charged from the date of granting the pension until now. Therefore, some of the recalculated pensions for employment on 1 July 2017 have not been increased by the same percentage and there are cases where they have not been increased at all. According to the National Insurance Institute, which has already been announced, the number of pensioners who have not received an increase in the amount of pensions they receive is 4900. The additional information we requested from the National Insurance Institute shows that the number of personal pensions which, when recalculating, received an increase but it was less than 2.36 per cent, as is actually the actual increase by recalculation with a coefficient of 1,126, is 260 900. Almost 200,000 of them have a difference of less than 10 cents. The remaining 877 thousand and 900 pensions received an increase of 2.36 per cent or more, as the minimum pension for internship and age was increased from July 1st by 11.5 per cent from BGN 161,38. At 180 leva. Here I would ask that we do not mix the two cases because this is about recalculating pensions, which coincided with an increase in the first increase in the minimum amount of pensions. The reasons leading to a lack of an increase or a lower increase in the amount of these pensions are different, with the overall groups of persons concerned being: First, pensioners whose pensions during the different periods of time have been indexed once or recalculated on the basis of different regulations. Subject to the rules in force and restrictions, some of them remained at a preserved level. Second, pensioners who did not receive an increase in previous recalculations as the estimated amount of their pension was less favourable. Following the recalculation of 1 July 2017, the previously received amount was exceeded, but by a percentage lower than 2.36 percent. In other words, these are persons who already receive the actual amount of pensions, which, compared to those received in June, has been increased by a percentage lower than 2.36 percent. Thirdly, the number of pensioners with an actual amount of pensions above the maximum is also significant, but this is not a new problem, because in any recalculation, indexing of pensions and before people who have pensions of an actual amount above the maximum but paid in the amount of the maximum, they do not actually receive an indexation. And the fourth group are pensioners with the so-called "bonus" for deferred retirement.................................................................................................................. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code of 2015. It should be noted that out of the 4900 pensions, which did not receive an increase in the recalculation in July, around 1600 received an increase of 1 October 2017 due to the increase of the minimum pension for internship and age as a second step from 180 to 200 BGN. In order to remove the negative effects of the current way of recalculating pensions, the Law on the Budget of the Bulgarian National Insurance Commission for 2018 proposed a change in the provision of § 53 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the CSR to ensure an increase in the amount of the pension with no less than the envisaged increase in the burden of the insurance service, namely 3.8 for 2018. Thus, if the pension after recalculation is lower than that which would result in the increase of the pension by the percentage under art. 100 of the CSR, the pensioner will be paid the higher amount of pension. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u251	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor, Mr. Gokov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, you answered me perfectly from a technical point of view who, what, why. However, Mr. Minister, you must immediately assign to the NSI to compensate these people and recalculate their pensions and apologize to them most importantly. And don't let the government act like nothing happened and ridiculously justify it. You see, these people have no fault at all, that once upon a time there was a-a decree, and now someone hasn't seen it, and they haven't increased their pension. Because it's a huge scandal, and solving it isn't even complicated. You didn't answer me: how much money is needed? And the other question is, who's gonna take the fall, you didn't answer? But you must not persist that there is no error, that the government does not intend to compensate those people who are left without the increase in pensions recorded in the Law and that there is no basis for such a step, because in this case everything, you see, is legal and there is no fault for it. I must tell you that this is how you break down the little hope left for justice in Bulgaria and in the pension system. All this makes the scandal even bigger and grander. Find a mechanism to make up for people, and more peacefully, more lively, more robustly, continue to do nothing material for the pensioners, to subsist them and to keep them quiet, that with lousy reforms and sweet talk by 2050, 2060 will probably receive a pension amount greater than Romania, Macedonia and Albania, but only on the condition that they freeze their pensions. Only then there'll be no more pensioners. I am sure that both GERB and the United Patriarchs will not be there then. I seriously assure you that you can't close this case like this, and you need to take action. And just one last sentence. Against the backdrop of this unjoyful picture and with this failure of the pensioners, the decision of the Council of Ministers came to increase the salaries of deputy ministers, heads of political offices and of everyone else, with sums of 600 to 2000 BGN. It's probably populist what I'm saying, but because there are few people who get paid this way, it's cynical for some people to have a handful, and for others not to have crumbs. By the way, the pensioners are protesting on November 3rd. Listen to them, Minister. It's nice to listen to people's voices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-27.u253	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You have the floor for the back. Would you like to use it? No. This was the last question of today's parliamentary control. The next meeting of the National Assembly is on 1 November 2017, Wednesday, at 9.00 a.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
