ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I am opening the plenary session, which is first for the new plenary session. In accordance with art. 44a of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, each new session of the Bulgarian Parliament begins with the anthem of the Republic of Bulgaria. [[(Everyone's up. The anthem of the Republic of Bulgaria sounds. (Applause)]] Colleagues, I offer your attention to the National Assembly's Work Programme for the plenary week from 11 to 13 January this week, including. First Wednesday of the month "The program is made and prepared according to the order of art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure by proposals on behalf of the parliamentary groups in the order of the corresponding rotation for this month. First in January are the parliamentary group of the party "Attack" that they have proposed, and that is what this is. 1, Project for a decision to condemn the genocide of the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire 1396 A continuation of the already started discussion on this point. 2. Proposal by the ABB Parliamentary Group for the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code. Importers are Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs. 3. Proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Party GERB "Project for a Decision on the National referendum held on 6 November 2016. Importers Dimitar Glauchev, Desislava Atanasova and Danail Kirilov. 4. A proposal from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria (BSP), Project for a decision to repeal a decision of the National Assembly of 29 March 2012 on the termination of the construction of a nuclear plant on the site of Belene. DV, No. 28 from 2012. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. There are no proposals from the parliamentary groups of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the Reformation Block and the Patriotic Front. 5. A proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center (Bulgarian Democratic Union) for the First Voting of the Draft Law amending the Civil Procedure Code with importers Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs. We are continuing with the rest of the Project Programme. 6. Draft Decision on the national referendum held on 6 November 2016. Importers are Glauchev, Atanasova and Kirilov. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code "A General Project prepared by the Committee on Legal Affairs, on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 6 October. 8. A bill for ratification of Protocols amending the Agreement establishing the International Investment Bank and its Statute. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 9. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 10. Second vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Road Transport "General project prepared by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, based on the projects adopted at the first vote. 11. Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2015. 20 July 2016. Importer is the Commission for the Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. 12. Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of Competition 2014 and Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of Competition 2015. The Commission for Protection of Competition is the importer. 13. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of electronic communications 2015 The Reporter is the Communications Regulation Commission. 14. Annual report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services...Analysis on the market of postal services for 2015................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 15. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 180 MPs: 127, against 39, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules: the first at the time was done by Mr. Velizar Enchev, who proposed a bill for amendment and supplement to the Election Code, but at the same time this bill was voted and rejected. Mr. Enchev has been notified. The motion was rejected by vote on 21 October 2015. The proposal is inadmissible. Next is a proposal by Mr. Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, who propose a Bill for amendment and supplement of the Deposit Guarantee Act in the banks. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, Happy New Year! I hope she's healthy and successful! The proposal that we have made with my colleague Dimitrov is short, but I would say it is meaningful and, as you have heard, it concerns the Deposit Guarantee Act in the banks and, in particular, the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the Banks and the procedure in which he appoints a trade union, respectively, all this interconnection with a bank in bankruptcy in the context of CCB. What concerns us with our fellow Members is that given that very soon this National Assembly will be dissolved, the parliamentary control that we have exercised through the Minister on the Syndicates is how many of the funds stolen from the CCB have been restored, how many cases have been started, how the process is going at all, some questions that we have asked on a regular basis and received regular accountability as an opportunity to drop in at least a few months. What we think is right is to allow citizens under the Public Information Access Act to do the same because, colleagues, you probably know, the Fund considers that it is not the so-called public legal entity under this Law and is not obliged when it is referred to under the Public Information Access Act, as the BNB answers, all ministers, ministries, offices and so on in this country, it considers that it does not owe an answer. Of course, we disagree. We also filed a lawsuit, by the way, which proved our right and that he is an obligation subject, but in order not to have citizens the same problems, I propose a brief change in the Law, which will clearly and categorically tell the gentlemen of the Fund that they are obliged to respond when they are asked by the order of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u3	We vote, fellow Members, this proposal. They voted 159 MPs: 124, against 12, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. The next proposal is by Mr. Angel Naydenov Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. He proposes to include in our weekly Programme a draft decision to review the EU's sanctions policy with regard to the Russian Federation, No 654-02-74 from 2016, with importers Cornelia Ninova, Tasko Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev. Who's gonna defend the offer? Here you are, Mr. Vigenin, although purely formal, Mr. Naydenov, you suggest it. You're not one of the importers, but you're ready to stand in the stands. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u4	Always ready, as they say. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! BSP is again putting your attention to a proposal for a decision to review the EU's sanctions policy with regard to the Russian Federation. Firstly, I would like to stress that it is unacceptable for us that at the European Council in December the Bulgarian Prime Minister supported the extension of sanctions by another six months without informing of his position on this, as well as on all other issues discussed by the Council, the Bulgarian Parliament, provided that he is well aware that this topic is sensitive to both the National Assembly and the entire Bulgarian society. Secondly, to those who will say that there is no point in considering this issue now, I will answer in advance that our proposal today comes as the last opportunity for this Parliament to make a firm decision and give this and the next governments a chance to start working in time on the road map that we are talking about in our proposal, because this requires time, consultation and discussions with partners. We are putting the subject not in a conjunctural way, but in principle and in time. Thirdly, for those who are afraid of destroying the European consensus by such a decision, I would say that questioning the review, a policy that does not achieve its objectives, but only brings harm, is not reprehensible to the contrary, brave and necessary. Nearly three years after the introduction of the first travel restrictions of Russian parliamentarians to the European Union, the only achievement is the difficulty of dialogue with Russia. It is even more absurd that this autumn in Russia was held elections and some of the people on the list are not even MPs anymore, which in itself makes it meaningless to remain on these lists. As far as economic sanctions are concerned, they have resulted in huge losses. If I have to refer to official data from your government, we lose nearly 30 million a month and there are no compensation mechanisms. According to prestigious institutes, total losses for the 38 countries that have introduced sanctions amounted to over 60 billion in two years since they were introduced. The dollar. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Four...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u5	There's no time for four, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u6	I think the arguments are clear. So, if necessary, give us a chance to continue this discussion in a debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u7	We vote, fellow Members. Vote 157 MPs: 56 against 46 abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from Mrs Cornelia Ninova, who proposes to include in the Programme a draft decision for annulment of the decision of the National Assembly of 29 March 2012 on the termination of the construction of a nuclear plant at the site of Belene. 28 from 2012. The draft decision was submitted by Mrs. Ninova and a group of MPs. Colleagues, I recall that this is a proposal under para. 8, which is already on the agenda, but as it may not be enough time for it on today's plenary day, I consider the proposal to be admissible under art. 50, para. 3, so I ask the proposal to be presented. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you know, this project was launched in 2004, it was logically extended by the next government in 2005 and 2006. Near the end of this government's governance, the project had almost all the necessary permits. It was a prepared and licensed site, issued a construction permit. As of 2009, Bulgaria was present at the world's atomic map as one of the few nations developing nuclear power and building a second nuclear power plant. By the way, GERB's first government also continued the implementation of the project and for the period 2009 to 2012 signed nine additions to the basic contract and paid over 380 million. lv. Despite the huge work carried out, despite the funds invested, including the first GERB government, by a decision of the Council of Ministers of 27 March 2012, which was promptly confirmed the next day by the Forty-first National Assembly with the votes of GERB and the Blue Coalition, this project was terminated. With the exception of point 1 of the Restructuring Communication, nothing else in this decision has been implemented, which also proved its insolvency. In 2012, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. "Atomstroyexport" filed a claim for 1 billion. Euros, you win it, and we have to pay them right now. Selling the equipment that's already ours to a third party won't work because there's nowhere to sell it. The only solution is the completion of the NPP with strategic investor, with the participation of NEK with an advance contribution or by selling the project. This may happen, however, under a single necessary condition.. The annulment of the decision of the National Assembly of 29 March 2012. There is no other chance, unfortunately, there is no other option. Very please, colleagues, see what's going on out there. Just to let you know that Bulgaria's electricity system is on the edge today. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u10	New capacities are needed. In order to build them, it is necessary for this decision to be abolished so that we can untie the hands of the next government, whatever it is, to complete this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u11	We are voting on a proposal for inclusion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u12	Back offer!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u13	There's no reverse proposal, guys. The National Assembly is They voted 152 MPs: 54, against 59, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Ermenkov will have the opportunity for a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u14	Madam President, colleagues in our group have given me a sign that at least two of them have not voted. So please proceed to a re-vote procedure. Colleagues, I know it's embarrassing sometimes to give up on a decision that was wrong, but that makes the stronger one stronger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u15	To your colleagues who have not voted, with a call for a quick vote in order to fit in in the minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u16	I will ask them to vote quickly and to vote in favour of the electricity of Bulgaria, so that we do not stay in the dark and cold tomorrow. People, it is up to you whether Bulgaria will have new capacities, whether something in this country will be built with your effort and not with your provocation. [[Arrival in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. The procedural proposal does not include slogans from the parliamentary platform. It's a rethink mode. Vote 157 MPs: 59 against 65 abstentions 33. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u18	Can you do it the way you're supposed to do it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u19	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u20	Dear Madam President, I am making a comment in the manner of conduct. You gave Mr. Ermenkov the opportunity in a re-voting procedure to present arguments on the ground and to frighten the Bulgarian society about whether there will be electricity or not. Moreover, their proposal to include this item on the agenda is untenable, because just a few weeks ago the Council of Ministers decided and entrusted the Minister of Energy to do the relevant analyses and to propose to the National Assembly which decisions should be repealed and what decision should be adopted in relation to the project. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u21	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. In the first part of your procedure, which is relevant to the manner of conduct, I accept your remark. I made the necessary comment... obviously insufficient to keep Mr. Ermenkov's impulse from arguments on the ground. As for the second part of your statement about what act the government has adopted, you will have the opportunity in the debate essentially in the order of art. 50, para. 8, when discussed, make your arguments more detailed. The next proposal in the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules is by Mr. Zhelyo Boychev, who proposes to include in our weekly Programme a draft declaration for change of the system for election of MPs submitted by Angel Naydenov and a group of MPs on 10 January 2017. The draft declaration itself was received at the National Assembly at 18.09 pm and Mr. Boychev's proposal was respectively from 18.10 pm. The proposals in this order shall be made by 18:00 on Tuesday, preceding the plenary session and the plenary week, for Wednesday. Furthermore, the draft declaration is allocated according to the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the Commission on Legal Affairs, so this proposal is inadmissible for voting in plenary. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 21 December 2016 to 10 January 2017: Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Political Parties. Importers suppose Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Political Parties. Importers suppose Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land. Importer Ivan Stankov. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Report of the Bulgarian National Bank for January "June 2016" and BNB budget for 2017. Importer "Bulgarian National Bank." It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Project for a decision to impose a moratorium on all construction activities and on the issuance of building permits on the territory of the park "Bedechka" town of Stara Zagora. Importers suppose Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the implementation of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2014 - 2021 between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the implementation of the Financial Mechanism of the European Economic Area 2014 - 2021 between the Republic of Bulgaria and Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein and the Kingdom of Norway. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The ratification will also be discussed by the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It will also be seen by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Political Parties. Importers suppose Borislav Velikov and Korman Ismailov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft declaration for change of the system for the election of Members of the National Assembly. Importers suppose Angel Naydenov and Zhelyo Boychev. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. In the National Assembly and adopted Decision No 1132 of 22 December 2016 on Case No KZK-317 of the Commission for Protection of Competition, which adopted a sectoral analysis of the competitive environment of the retail market in medicinal products in the Republic of Bulgaria, included in the positive drug list intended for home treatment, paid in full or in part by the National Health Insurance Fund. According to the letter, the copy of the decision attached to it deleted the information indicated by market participants as a business secret. The material is provided to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Health. It is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly, the decision itself is available electronically on the website of the Commission for Protection of Competition. On 23 December 2016, an annual audit programme of the Court of Auditors for 2017 was submitted by the Court of Auditors to the National Assembly. The annual programme was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and was available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 27 December 2016, the National Assembly received an action plan with measures to prevent the acquisition of private, state or municipal property, adopted by decision No 1087 of 23 December 2016 of the Council of Ministers. By my letter, the material was sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs and to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government. It is provided to the Members of the National Assembly by electronic means and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. On 28 December 2016, the National Assembly was given a report on the activities of the Ministry of Education and Science for the period November 2014. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and was available to the Members of the National Assembly. On 3 January 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 January 2017 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 January 2020. No 739001 was reported to the National Assembly by the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 November 2016. "24 December 2016 and Protocol No 54 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. In my letter, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The material is available to the MPs in the Library. The National Statistical Institute received materials from the National Statistical Institute containing statistical research results on: a general index of producer prices in industry and indexes at prices of producer on the domestic market and the international market in industry for November 2016; the business climate in industry, construction, retail trade and services in December 2016; key indicators for the development of the economy in the Republic of Bulgaria as of 30 December 2016; information on November 2016 on the following indicators The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Agenda procedure please, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u22	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, somehow the government is quietly trying to hide from the blitzcontrol. Let us recall that every first Wednesday of the month, according to the Rules of the National Assembly and the Bulgarian Constitution, there is a blitz control of the Prime Minister and his alternates. Why is the blitzcontrol canceled on today's date? For what reason? We want to ask according to the Constitution how the world record broke and were distributed two billion levs in two weeks? They are mainly distributed to municipalities, which are managed by mayors of GERB, and we have specific facts. What about public procurement? Are they stopped or not stopped? What's going on with the country's blocked road network? Madam President of the National Assembly, contact the Prime Minister, remind him that Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic and not to go into a precedent where you hide the government from the blitzcontrol! The only excuse would be if the prime minister and his deputies were now kicking the finale of the highway and looking in the snow at its opening. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u23	Dear Mr. Gechev, evident from the project for the weekly program, which I announced yesterday at noon, because today is the first Wednesday of the month, according to the rule of our Rules I have included a point for blitzcontrol. I informed the members of the Conference of Presidents earlier this morning that I had received a letter from the Prime Minister in resignation for his international commitments, as well as corresponding letters from the three Deputy Prime Ministers, some of them are out of the country, while others do not have the opportunity because of the natural circumstances in the country. What was necessary, I have done, I have informed the leaders of the parliamentary groups, for which reason only this point has been dropped from the Programme. That's the difference in distinction from the project I submitted yesterday. [[Replications from the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]] Welcome to the Presidential Council to make these proposals. Your representatives on the Conference of Presidents today have not received such a proposal. [[Replications from the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]] Mr. Gechev, coordinate with the management of the group the behavior of your participants in the Conference of Presidents. Article 50, para. 8 We begin with the point proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Attack, namely: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO DISCUSS GENOCIDE AGAINST BULGARIAN IMPACTS 1396-1913 No 454-02-7 From 27 October 2014 was introduced by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. [[Relations from the National Representative Angel Naydenov.]] You're right, Mr. Naydenov. I was so quick to move on to the legislative part that I missed the fact that today, as the beginning of the new session, there is an opportunity for statements on behalf of parliamentary groups, agreed and specified also at the Conference of Presidents. In the order of the size of the parliamentary groups and their numbers, the first one has the floor... [[Noise and lines.]] Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the spirit of observing the traditions of the National Assembly, I propose that the statements of the leaders of the parliamentary groups be transmitted directly on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u25	A reverse opinion? I won't. I'm voting. Vote 164 MPs: 76 against 34, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Tsvetanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u26	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Today we mark the beginning of one of the shortest political seasons of the Bulgarian Parliament. For all of us, these last working days of the Forty - Third National Assembly are a serious challenge. We should work dignifiedly and responsibly until the last moment, thinking what message we leave to the Bulgarians as lawmakers, not to use the plenary tribune for election campaigning and insulting of opponents, because examples in this direction were not lacking even during the bright Christmas and New Year holidays by the BSP. I expect all of us, the MPs of the Forty-third National Assembly, to show wisdom and pragmatism and to take into account by consensus the work done well with regard to the legislative activity of this Parliament. Of course, we will have to be honest with people and frankly mention what we did not have time for. Perhaps we are not all satisfied with the quality of individual laws and better the Bulgarians to know our assessment from now on than to then talk about legislative marriage and cast a shadow of negativity on Parliament's work. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no such thing as a bad job in Parliament as a whole. There are specific names of MPs, parliamentary committees and parliamentary groups that contribute to the good results in our work, but there are also those who frankly hinder. It is high time for personal responsibility to replace the wrong summary at the expense of the work of the entire institution. We at GERB will go to the voters with a report on our work in parliament and will make efforts to get a real response in the campaign before the elections, because GERB is building the campaign and its application for the next participation in power only on the basis of what we have done, including on the basis of our work so far in parliament. However, this is not the way things look for our BSP opponents, who expect the new president and his government to motivate people to vote for them. Don't count on it, ladies and gentlemen, for the Bulgarians to have a brief memory! You cannot disguise yourself as a prospect for a management alternative to GERB by taking advantage of the confidence of the new president and turning the work of his office into your asset. This can't be your asset! The polls show that your electorate swells with a vote of atypical voters. All this does not provide security because you are hardly aware of whether you can manage this resource according to the logic of your political interests for the upcoming elections. The present National Assembly presents a record number of political formations in recent years. GERB's parliamentary group is satisfied with the political communication we achieved within the framework of the Forty-third National Assembly. Not one and two crisis situations in recent years have required suppression of close party selfishness. The consensus did not always happen, but I am convinced that precisely in this National Assembly, as a result of GERB's efforts, we have shown that political dialogue is possible. GERB's parliamentary group has truly opened up to partnership and cooperation. We sought agreement on the substance of the problems, not merely agreement. We have been looking for a solution within the framework of the possible, and we have failed to compromise that will lead to half the work done. Even if we have achieved this in the last two years, it represents a respectable political asset, because it is a fact that there are no obstacles today to leading a frank political dialogue between parties in parliament. However, prejudice and close-party interests are still somewhat interfering with the effectiveness of such negotiations. I truly believe that there will be no return from what has already been done for communication between the different parliamentary formations. Experience has shown that the outgoing parliament was one of those where there was not much room for ugly bargaining. We hope this will yet influence the better public image of the institution that we are all representing. GERB's parliamentary group was part of the well-synchronized working mechanism. We initiated a timely adoption of bills in order not to tie the cabinet's hands in its efforts to respond as quickly and adequately as possible to public expectations. As may be expected, the opposition has hurryed to call our working interactions with the cabinet a 'popular PR'. The absurdity of such claims has been refuted by the very parliamentary practice of communication, where we have dedicated and patiently sought mass support to accept the good ideas for Bulgaria. Often in the name of tolerant political dialogue GERB gave way to programming priorities of its partners in governance, which, of course, did not always appeal to our own voters. We are satisfied with the legislative changes adopted in the area of justice, which, in addition to ensuring more justice in Bulgaria, brought our country closer to exiting the European cooperation and verification mechanism. Thus we achieved one of the highest levels of integration in the European Union. Through its parliamentary activities for the last two years GERB managed to change to a large extent the expectations of its voters. The voters of GERB learned to accept the necessary compromises. They got used to supporting their party's dialogue with other political forces in the name of good consensus decisions. We realize that we have often delayed the important decisions for our structures on the ground in the name of common tasks dictated by public priorities. Honor does to the cabinet Borisov that he did not divide the problems of closer to the program of Party GERB and further away from it. The government worked on its policies with a clear awareness that public approval of its work would be on the tides and tides. Borisov's office did not seek the easy way and cheap popularity. The fact is that this cabinet has managed to raise its voice in the European institutions and to seek the best solution for our national problems with European assistance. The valuable contribution of our cabinet is that it preserved the enviable high Eurooptimism of the Bulgarians and our empathy to the European perspective. This is highly appreciated by our European partners. At the end of our governance, we are reporting a record for the last eight years economic growth and budget surplus, which directly leads to a reduction in government debt. The incomes of the Bulgarians increased and unemployment decreased significantly. We continued to improve our country's infrastructure successfully using the resources of European solidarity from which only two years ago we were isolated. All these efforts of the cabinet Borisov were evaluated by our partners in Brussels, who directed specialized aid of 160 million to us. EUR to tackle migratory pressure and strengthen security at our borders. GERB's parliamentary group has proved to be an important lever for implementing all legal changes and measures to preserve the stability of our country. There is no alternative to many parliamentary and diplomatic efforts to ensure peace and order in the country against the backdrop of the deepening security problems in Europe and our region. Even more disturbing are military conflicts in nearby regions that generate a continuous stream of migrants, organised crime and terrorism. Against this background in the last two years, Bulgaria has established itself as an island of stability not only in the Balkans, but in the entire region of Southeast Europe and the Middle East. Finally, but far from last, the parliamentary group of GERB considers it particularly important once again to declare our desire to comply with the vote of the referendum. The proportion of Bulgarians who voted in the consultation is too large to ignore. And if the Law for a little while does not make the referendum compulsory, then the morals of GERB oblige us to insist on respecting the voters' desire to change the political logic of government. However, we call on all parliamentary represented political forces to comply with the will of the Bulgarian citizens, to mobilize and make possible efforts, because any non-compliance with the civil will of more than 2 million. 500 000 Bulgarian citizens will lead to an increase in negative energy in society and hence to a deepening of the political crisis, which is unacceptable for us. I wish you all, honourable Members, a healthy and controversial 2017! I wish you success in the upcoming parliamentary elections! I sincerely hope that we will maintain our respect and normal human relations in the campaign so that we can work in the future only and only because of the interest of Bulgaria! Thank you! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u27	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP left Bulgaria and Mrs. Cornelia Ninova. [[People from the GERB Parliamentary Group are leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear viewers and listeners, wish us a happy New 2017! May it be peaceful and healthy for Bulgaria! We are opening the last session of the Forty-third National Assembly "Perhaps the shortest session in parliament." It's really honorable of those who sent us here to account for what we've done. Not by consensus, honourable Members of the ruling majority, but by facts, with realism, I hope with wisdom and perspective ahead. The majority put on the agenda of this Parliament Boyko Borisov's government programme over 150 pages of compromise, agreement, division and failure. We do not have parliamentary time to analyze by sector, but we can sum up: two lost years for Bulgaria, two barren years for our people. The majority was set up for one great goal - reforms, and you made them: pension, education, health and judicial. Many disputes, meetings, sections, leaving partners we saw in the ruling majority, but we did not see the result of these reforms. Let us evaluate them not from the point of view of the rulers, not even of the opposition we will all be subjective here, try to evaluate them from the point of view of those for whom you made them. Do you think that any Bulgarian today is better and more satisfied, there is better healthcare that pays for cheap medicines or does not pay under the table when you go to hospital? We don't think that's true! To all his woes in health care, reform added humiliation to wait in queues, for fingerprints. The pension reform. Did today's pensioners get any higher pensions? No. And what did the future get? A higher internship, i.e. longer time to work, increased their social security contribution and promised them a future uncertain event after 30 years to receive higher pensions. Educational reform. Colleagues, you've freaked out teachers, kids, principals with new curriculums. For the first time a school year started without textbooks, state and municipal schools with a smaller budget. Judicial reform. For months, disputes over the sharing of power and influence in the Supreme Judicial Council. But let us ask again from the point of view of those who have reformed: do they feel that justice is increased, that there is retribution for criminals, that domestic crime is less? Let them say it! You bet 16 billion new debts, increased excise duties, fees and wineries, you're proud of a billion and a half more surplus. But, here is the most important issue in politics.... did you feel any of this? Did you feel that he lived better than this financial stability, as you call it? So does poverty reduce the biggest challenge facing us? We don't think so. There is only one measure of successful policy and this is the answer to the question: does our people live today better after the rule of Boyko Borisov? Let him answer! Some of them must live. Those dozen companies, who get everything in the Bulgarian economy, yes. But young families, disabled people, workers, intelligence, pensioners, teachers, no! The Minister of Health, Defence and the Mayor of Plovdiv probably live better, but are accused of dealing. But the patients, the residents of Plovdiv, the military and their families are hardly! Add to this injustice the withdrawal of the dignity of the Bulgarian people, because what else is the foreign policy of the government of Boyko Borisov other than betrayal of the national interest. "Irina Bokova and Kristalina Georgieva; support for the SETA agreement; sanctions against Russia; your overall refugee policy, which is obedience to Merkel and the European People's Party. And the people said "No" to this policy asked for a change and chose Rumen Radev as president. Instead of accepting this will and withdrawing from power, you began with all your strength to cling to it: attempts for a new government, delaying mandates, now a request to extend the work of this National Assembly, supposedly to respond to the people's will from the referendum, and you need two weeks. Dear colleagues, you have had two months from November 13th to today, you have had two years of government and you could have done it. Whom do you think you will deceive that this is your desire to satisfy the people's will?! The interest here is different, and people understand it is this interest and not the people's will. That is why we see the outcome of this situation with the dissolution of the National Assembly and early elections, a new majority by the will of the people and political maturity in the future parliament for the following: First, future lawmakers immediately and first of all to undertake a change in the Election Code. Secondly, without any compromises dealing with the mafia, bribes, commissions, table deals and payment under table, and retribution for those who did it in those two years. Thirdly, working for a new economic model for development of Bulgaria, and it is: own economy and Bulgarian production; development plan of 5 - 6 industries of the state for which we have raw materials, opportunities and markets; tying them with education in secondary schools and universities to provide staff. Fourth, every Bulgarian health care provider knows that when he pays his health contributions, he will have access to health care and will not pay for it, and he who cannot, because he is poor, because he is weak or disabled, to know that his state guarantees his health care. Fifthly, all of this taken together as fulfilling conditions for achieving two major goals: reducing poverty, giving birth and raising more Bulgarians in Bulgaria, that is, the big question of the demographic crisis. Honourable Members, [[noise and lines]] The world changed, the peoples in America and Europe and Bulgaria in the presidential elections asked for a change, and they took it. Many people say: " What kind of change is this?I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Noise and lines.]] We see it this way: we need to change many sectoral policies, but generally we see it this way: decent politicians, patriots, putting in place rules for work, for life, morals for all alike and introducing penalties for those who do not work and do not live by these rules. At the heart of policies that make honorable patriot politicians stand the man, not the money. The great challenge facing us, politicians and parties today is do we understand the need for change that our peoples have asked for, are we ready to give them this change? We from BSP left Bulgaria. We understand the desire for change, we are ready to do it. We have taken the first step in the presidential elections, we will make it to the end of the early parliamentary elections, we will manage the state to realise everything we say today. This is not only a challenge in front of us, but before the political elite and before the status quo. Either change or we all become unnecessary. We're ready for her. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP left Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u29	A declaration is followed on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Karadaye has the floor. He is the chairman of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To start the new year, I want to wish everyone this year to be more stable, calmer and more successful for the country and for all Bulgarian citizens! The beginning of this session is also the end of the forty-third National Assembly. In 2016, the world experienced many catastrophes, crises and events that we did not know, including strength, concentration, intensity, reflection and impact, from the refugee crisis through attacks, earthquakes and other natural cataclysms, catastrophes to Brexit, elections in the United States, including the presidential elections in our country. But these are not the reasons for the dissolution of the forty-third National Assembly and early elections, but what are the reasons? This question requires a clear and concrete answer because today in this National Assembly there are at least 150 MPs ready to form a new arithmetic majority and to broadcast a cabinet. Then why is the National Assembly adjourned? The answer is: a lack of similarity in the management programs of the parties forming a majority, and what is more the absence of a common value platform of these parties, and the conclusion is: there is no stable power without a management program on a value basis. In this regard, another conclusion regarding the answer to the question: is it still thought to ignore a 90 percent coincidence of programs and to form an arithmetic majority based on hatred and opposition? Because that is exactly what GERB did at the beginning of the mandate [[Noise and lines.]] A very long analysis of the differences in the management programmes of the parties by the ruling majority may be very long, and that is not the purpose of this analysis today. We would like to emphasise here that the main problem that failed the cabinet and this Parliament is the formula for the construction of power, and since power was viciously conceived at the very beginning, failure was predestined, and we have repeatedly emphasised this. We would like to warn you that any further attempt to bet on an arithmetically and not on a value majority with a common management programme will achieve the same result of failure. Looking at all the processes interconnected, we in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms adopted the presidential elections not only as an isolated political event, but as a chance for the process of reformating the political configuration and stabilisation of the institutions in Bulgaria to achieve true political stability, to establish normality in politics. We bet on the balance in the political configuration, we bet on the general view of change, and we succeeded. [[Noise and lines.]] The Bulgarian people with their sober political sense and wisdom broke through their vote so widely proclaimed in the last year of GERB preserving the stability of power and revealing its bankruptcy, and in this sense the presidential elections became the beginning of a new government in the country after early parliamentary elections. Within this Parliament, no work can be expected except for an election campaign that is already under way, including the two declarations that we have heard, including some of the items on the agenda that have been adopted today. The state is wandering because there is no vision for national priorities. Operational programmes are not being implemented. There is a risk that they will be permanently stopped. More than 50 criminal procedures have been established against Bulgaria. The main political forces do not have a valuable image and vision and engage in the denial of the other... they blame each other instead of dealing with the development of the country. And here is the question: not only to clearly indicate those who are guilty of this, but also to give ourselves a clear understanding of what responsibility in advance everyone takes from here on in participation in the management? [[Noise and lines.]] We also need to make it clear that, at the beginning of the current majority's governance, the European People's Party in the face of Dol swallowed the participation of nationalists in government, the EPP now categorically cut off the desire of the greatest political power to support a cabinet of nationalists. [[Noise and lines from PF.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the conditions are severe, both climate and political and management, and populist, but regardless of the government's late resignation, despite the compromise of democracy by the government, regardless of the lack of confidence in the institutions, even though we are surrounded by the world of post-facts and post-truths, regardless of the dominance of hate speech, regardless of populism, we must consider the problems of 2016 as a chance for 2017. [[Noise and lines.]] The early parliamentary elections will form a new parliament and a new majority. The great goal is that this majority will lead to stability in the country and security of citizens. A valuable homogeneous majority in parliament is needed to broadcast a stable government and implement a national responsible partnership between bodies and institutions, with clear national priorities, a value homogeneous majority based on a similarity between the management programmes and the values of the constituent parties. This is very important given both regional and geopolitical crises. This is very important before Bulgaria takes over the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Political time requires that we clearly understand our mission and target the goals and the way in which to go. Nationally responsible parties must be united in our will to secure and ensure fair and transparent elections in order to establish the necessary trust in the newly elected National Assembly. If we fail to fulfil these conditions, we cannot expect a stable majority and a government to be drawn up, as well as a successful implementation of the mandate of the next Parliament. We cannot take advantage of the historic chance to have a pro-active role in reforming the European Union. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I call on all the political forces in the country to meet the expectations of the people of all Bulgarian citizens. In contrast, if we decide that populism and false messages are profitable, if we bet on manipulations and hate speech, we can announce the beginning of a long election marathon. The consequences of this scenario are unpredictable, but one thing is clear: to move away from the so-called stability and security, from the so-called prosperity. Of course, I want to end up optimistic. I wish success to those who will lead a positive campaign and defeat their own fears to tell the truth and offer programs that can be realized. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u31	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. The way you're holding Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Simeonov, now they will make a note to me in the manner of keeping that I have not secured order in this House and do not hear the Members of the National Assembly speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u32	I don't get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u33	Yes, Madam President, I thank you for the opportunity given to me, and this is exactly the kind of remark I will make to you, because declarations on behalf of the parliamentary groups matter, if not for the people in this House, for the people who are outside this House, and it is good that everyone can hear and that the media can reflect everything that the parliamentary groups think, because this National Assembly is also going for this reason. Listening only to your own leader when he reads a declaration and speaks is a manifestation of very bad political taste, not to mention bad upbringing. That's what we've seen for 15 minutes in this room. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, as you can see, is in full stock and listens with due attention to all leaders of parliamentary groups. I ask you, Madam President, since there is obviously no education and political culture, to bring them back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u34	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Your note is resonant. I tried verbally, unspokenly, to put order in the Chamber because I felt it was not right to interrupt the talking leader of a parliamentary group to make comments to the plenary. I thank those MPs who have complied with my remark and with the help of the Quaestors in plenary. Following is the declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u35	Madam President, honourable Members, a declaration from the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group. On 1 January 2017, 10 years of our entry into the European Union shall be turned. Much earlier, decades before that, one of the fathers of modern Europe, Jean Monnet, says that people only accept change when faced with necessity, but recognize the need only when they are in crisis. We note the anniversary at a time when Europe and its institutions face many challenges. In these 10 years the Bulgarian economy entered 22 billion. lv. In 10 years Bulgaria's gross domestic product has increased from 56 to 88 billion. BGN, but these are only the numerical measurers of the benefits of the Euro-Atlantic civilization choice of Bulgaria. As a right-wing union, the Reformation bloc highlights the contribution of all the political forces of the entire spectrum, which unreservedly support the membership of the European Union and the status of Bulgarian citizens as full citizens of Europe. But good gets used to it quickly and takes it for granted. Even individual politicians who publicly speak against the European Union send their children to study in the West, in the same European Union and not in the East, proving that the European Union is the only viable, useful, promising and guaranteeing the security and prosperity of Bulgaria political union. The single market, the European standards for democracy, rights and society, the free movement of people and capital, goods and services to such an extent are part of our everyday life and reality that we have accepted them as lifelong. However, the truth is that the values and achievements of the European Union must be defended every day by each and every one of us, especially in the field of political endeavors, and these efforts must continue to be made by all parties who claim to be responsible political entities. I must say that in a situation of unprecedented migratory pressure on the European Union, a Union coming out of an economic recession, populists are on the rise and are trying to inform people that all the good things of solidarity and Europeanism are the cause of the woes of citizens. But we also speak here as a Bulgarian citizen and European, we will not allow these manipulations to take root. The reformist bloc is sure that the crisis and difficulties must be used for us to dare for more, more solid, more consolidated Europe, most of the changes that only one crisis makes possible. The anniversary is a logical moment for retrospect and evaluation. We entered Europe, but did Europe enter us, did we make use of our opportunities? The reformist bloc firmly believes that Bulgaria should make more use of its status as a full member to double its efforts to enter the Schengen area. The quality stamp for our security systems, for entering the Eurozone waiting room, for participating in the European banking supervision and the European Prosecutor's Office. In addition, our country must be much more active with forward positions in terms of the common European security forces, standards for education, income policies and overcoming the social division in which Europe is lagging, and extremism is taking advantage of the wavering pace. Because the signal in the people is clear "security" is task No 1 and confidence in the Union will only increase if it responds adequately with political decisions to this task put by citizens. We note as a mistake at the 43rd National Assembly that he failed to demonstrate the political will for Bulgaria's entry into Schengen and raised no high criticism of the Bulgarian country that the European Commission made a major political mistake by binding the cooperation mechanism and verification with the country's readiness to enter Schengen. Bulgaria protects the borders of the European Union effectively and must insist that this assessment is the leading argument in its accession to the European security system. We consider as a mistake and the lack of a decision of the Bulgarian National Assembly to respond to the calls of individual countries for sending European security forces to the southern border of the Union as an active measure against the sewerage and illegal migrant pressure at the borders of the Union, respectively to Bulgaria. The reformist bloc will defend the benefit of such solidarity because it is solidarity in the interests of Bulgarian citizens and the rule of law in the European Union. We note as a mistake at the 43rd National Assembly that it did not give a clear signal of support for sanctions against those in power in the Kremlin to cross the attempts of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and the left forces in our country to waver citizens and society the benefit of sanctions. They are a clear sign that Europe is a political union in which the rule of law and sovereignty of the countries in it are respected unconditionally and daring to violate this principle does not go unpunished. The reformist bloc believes that at the end of its term of office political parties in the 43rd National Assembly on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of Bulgaria's entry into the European Union can correct these gaps by declaring in a joint declaration their unwavering political will Bulgaria to deepen and reaffirm its Euro-Atlantic membership. The reformation bloc will submit a draft decision on a declaration and we call on the political forces to support it. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the priorities of the Reformation Block for the political season, however absurdly short it will be, whether it will be two or three weeks, it does not matter. That is why our emphasis was not here, although I can read you all our proposals introduced to the Ministry of Justice: A bill to prevent the corruption and the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property. A priority for both the Reformation bloc and the whole society, the fight against corruption, the continuation of judicial reform, the Law on the settlement of the rights of citizens with multi-annual housing savings deposits, the Law on Structure of the Area, the Law on Obligations and Contracts, something that will save millions of Bulgaria, and so on, many others. Unfortunately, this parliament is leaving or not, others will come and do more work. But it is important that what is happening today. 20 years from January 10, 1997. I see dangerous trends, honourable colleagues, to minimize the efforts and sacrifice of people since then, to make suggestions that these were almost paid protests. It is thanks to these days that all that we enjoy today is possible. Don't forget that! Happy New Year and be healthy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Trenchev. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u37	They have nothing to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u38	On behalf of the Bulgarian Democratic Center of the People's Union? Here you go, Mrs. Kovachka.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u39	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After the resignation of the cabinet, the political development in Bulgaria had its logical move and conclusion. The inability to establish a new cabinet in this Parliament has brought us to extraordinary parliamentary elections. Political development, which brings instability and certain risks due to the general uncertainty in Europe, the migrant and terrorist waves, the ongoing conflicts in Syria, Iraq and Ukraine, but most of all because of the risk that the political crisis in our country will continue after the extraordinary elections. We were opposed to such a development a position which we have repeatedly expressed, including to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. But as they say, failure is not about falling, but about refusing to get up. Political forces have found no strength and will to avoid this development and not to deepen the country's problems. The lesson learned from what has happened to the political forces in the future parliament should be the search for new political behaviour, which will allow a broad coalition to be drawn up in the future parliament and cabinet with a programme aimed at resolving key problems of the country: economic growth, employment and income of the population, demographic problems, continuing reforms in education, in health, the judiciary and, of course, the country's stability and security. The seriousness of these problems must unite us all. The priority of the economy must be above all else. All other reforms will be powerless to modernise the country if we do not achieve a marked economic growth. Today, however, we have a problem to deal with that which we all seem united. This is the change of the Election Code. We all agree that the vote in the referendum is adamant and the will of the people must be carried out. The differences occur in the interpretation of what exactly should be done, what should be a major or mixed system that we will approve? How many candidates are allowed to go to the second round, the principle of zoning and others? We of the BDZ and People's Union also want to change the electoral rules to provide normal conditions for voting of 2 million young and active Bulgarians living outside the country. Let the experts find a solution to how this can happen by e-voting or voting in the mail, but we will strongly defend this right of our countrymen living outside the country. We are questioning that in the remaining few days of parliament there will be an agreement on all these problems. We are also afraid that haste in this case can also lead to rapid repentance. If we leave this decision for the future parliament, I think people will understand. Thank you. [[Applause from the National Assembly]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u40	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kovachka. From the political party's parliamentary group "Attack" has the floor of its chairman, the national representative Volen Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u41	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. To tell you the truth, I'm going to report you collegiately: I'm already experiencing one fatigue declaration after a declaration, session after session. Here, for example, I will give you what I have said in 2007. A short time ago we have been talking about 10 years since our accession to the Union. I don't know if there are dozens of people in this room who have been MPs in 2007. So we will try to send you this statement, remember... Here's a copy of you. [[Passing sheet to President Dimitar Glauchev]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u43	It's very instructive, because then I say a few things that turned out to be true. For example, I warn you that entering the European Union alone does not lead to an improvement in life. So it turned out that the so-called Euro-Atlantic values did not include Christianity in themselves, as it fell, was rejected by the draft Constitution of the European Union and some countries such as Poland and Spain protested very strongly. In Bulgaria, of course, it does not matter whether Christianity, paganism, to enter the Union, to line up somewhere in the row and to applaud. Ten years passed, during which in Bulgaria life became worse, not better. The gross product was quoted earlier. Well, gross product, if it doesn't rise by a few percent, let's just drown in column one in the Black Sea. This cannot be an argument that EU membership has benefited Bulgaria. No, the EU membership has caused damage. And I've been proving that ever since we joined the Union. Then I warned that only the closure of the four blocks of the NPP, which happened with fraud, because then the negotiator with the EU Mrs. Kuneva, currently deputy prime minister in resignation, and the Minister of Energy Kovachev, as well as the Foreign Minister Passy, deceived the Bulgarian people that there was a decision of the European Commission to close the blocks. We wrote a special letter with our MEPs. Turns out there's no such solution. A group of Bulgarian informants brought a case to the Luxembourg court and therefore replied: "We are sorry, we cannot proceed with the case because there is no decision of the European Commission to appeal. However, here in Bulgaria, the fraud was imposed that the European Commission had decided the same and the Bulgarian then ruling, headed by the negotiator in the EU "Kuneva," betrayed the interests of Bulgaria. In this regard, from this high tribune, I turn to the highest position in the prosecution, Mr. Prosecutor General, who has always been very relevant, very timely, to begin, as he has now filed several charges against former and current ministers, to take to press charges against Mrs. Kuneva, Mr. Milko Kovachev and Mr. Passy, who cheated then the Bulgarian society that we must close our blocks, from which we have suffered damage over 10 billion. EUR on gross calculation of specialists. That's damage that deserves serious charges, because right now we have 200 million indictments, even 20 million, some kind of amount. We're talking billions here! Bulgaria has lost billions and we are currently hearing that the government has turned to Romania to ask for electricity because there is a danger that we will lose electricity, that there will be electricity regime. Well, yes, this is all a result of the mistakes made by several governments and the sheepfold pathos with which our membership in the Union was accepted. Currently, the Union is an organisation, an institution that has proved its bankruptcy, if you will, on the most important issue of modern times, illegal aliens, migrants. The EU has proved absolutely untenable, the leaders of the European Union have proved absolutely spineless and without any vision of how to protect their own countries from the invading waves so-called refugees, who are actually aliens who are illegal, who are carriers of a criminogenic environment, of terror. They're literal terrorists. So, we Bulgarian politicians, if we want to be in class, as one of your leaders said, honorary President, ladies and gentlemen, must reconsider critical membership of the EU. What does that mean? I'm not saying make any sudden moves, but I'm saying we rethink our membership and be active. Bulgaria has so far been a passive factor in negotiating, losing, suffering damage, suppressing its interests, and as a member of the European Union was an absolute passive factor without any presence, without any vision, without any suggestions and ideas. There goes our representatives to listen rankly and then come back to implement directives. I think it is high time for the Bulgarian political elite to reconsider this membership, to decide how Bulgaria should develop from now on, whether everything that comes from Brussels should be implemented or whether we should restore at least part of our sovereignty. Without such sovereignty, we cannot talk about future successful development and any policy, or sectoral policies, as we have heard here, or ambitions, that if we come to power, we will do wonders. No miracles can be done if this colonial picture continues, in which Bulgaria has no sovereignty, no own economy, our entire active population works for foreign economies and this is considered a normal and non-alternative situation. There is an alternative and it is called more sovereignty, more Orban style policy, more policy in the name of the Bulgarian national interest. What does national interest mean? So we have our own economy of everything we've produced before, and now it's imported. What does national interest mean? Well, at least some of those people who work outside should come back. What does national interest mean? To preserve ourselves from migrants, from waves of aliens that threaten our identity. This means national interest to raise the incomes of the poor Bulgarians, who for ten years in the Union have come to know the bottom of misery. It's all national interest. The Bulgarian political elite should work in this direction. The other is an election game, an election system game. As I can see, a game is about to begin: let's change the electoral system. Okay, change it. Will the standard of the Bulgarians rise? It won't pick up. Is the economy going to work? No, you won't. What needs to happen can only happen with political will, a sufficient majority in this Parliament, which, however, wants to do so, and the executive power that does not worry and fear any remark by a foreign ambassador. That's something I haven't said for the first time. As I have already told you, I am tired of making declarations from this tribune, but I still have to hear what I'm telling you because my words from 10 years ago proved true. Well, let's not go for another 10 years so we can go out on this stage again and say, "Well, what did I tell you in 2017?" Is that true? True enough. My advice to you, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and candidates for power in the future election campaign, is to make sure that the colonial status quo of Bulgaria finally changes; to make sure that we have confidence, which means to start a more self-sufficient policy. The world is changing. 2017 will be a violent, dynamic year. If we do not understand this, we will stay in line, we will stay at the bottom and it does not matter whether we are a member of the Union, NATO or some interplanetary union. The same thing, because in Northwestern Bulgaria this will not be felt. And in all of Bulgaria already. As we can see, the whole of Bulgaria happened with the syndrome of Northwestern Bulgaria And from then on, with whatever political agenda, whatever political ideas we have now in these elections, people don't trust them. They're starting to trust all kinds of clowns, all kinds of clowns, all kinds of new lifeguards. But you know that's cheating. Therefore, my advice to all those involved in politics is to return to the essence of politics. And politics means to make for as short a time as possible the better lives of people, the Bulgarian people. After all, this is what the oath here in the National Assembly says when we become MPs. Let's get back to that oath, keep it. Nothing else is required of us. Maybe we can do something good then. Thank you for your attention. I wish you a successful and healthy year, more brains, more reason and more faith! Thank you. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Revival Alternative has the popular representative Mariana Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I wish all of you and the entire Bulgarian people a successful and peaceful New Year! The 43rd National Assembly began with faith and optimism, fed by the will for stability and seeking consensus. We cannot go on the path of denial alone, and we must say that good laws were also born in it, but in time there was never a complete mechanism for discussing the important problems, the upcoming bills and the collective decision making, even within the ruling majority. The government did not listen to ABB's application for personnel changes, identification and work on clear priorities. That is why both the presidential elections and the referendum have become a vote against the political elite, against the transition, against the policy making at all. For two years in the National Assembly, the parliamentary group of ABB, as part of the majority, and as opposition, achieved a visible presence and established itself as a legislatively competent ideological formation prepared professionally to defend solid political principles. The ABB was leading and contributed to the reforms in a number of sectors - justice system, pension and social system, higher education. We have contributed with good decisions in the sectors of Military and Homeland Security............................................................................................. Our parliamentary group has emerged as a generator of ideas, consent and intelligent behaviour. Today, the social and economic situation is more than ever dynamic and complex. There has been separation and opposition in politics and society before, but with clear poles and visible borders. Now we are faced with manipulations, with the plucked hope and lost landmarks. The values have been dismantled so that we can move in front of fake heroes and fake rescuers. Each time stability and development are promised, but we remain only at the level of declarations and we deprive the words of their meaning. We are arguing whether or not there is a political crisis, and it is increasingly obvious that there is a crisis of confidence in institutions and parties because of the lack of a sense of justice in recent years. New rescuers appear and in advertising for quick credit and lottery ticket promise us an instant solution to the problems, a shortcut to success. National populists and socialists are in fashion. The situation we are in is risky for parties and politicians, for the entire political class. But this, apart from falling into populism and unsystemic players, is also a sort of cleaning of the status quo and there is nothing scary about it. Although it has sounded dozens of times over the years, we have to say: "There is no direct to success without effort! " That's why the ABB has its mission. The people at ABB have a cause. The main conclusion we draw is that Bulgaria is in a qualitatively new situation. It faces crucial risks and dangers that statehood is at stake. The number of crises on each other in Europe, the changes in the foreign policy and geopolitical environment, the demographic crisis, the slow pace of economic growth and the growth of incomes, all of this puts more and more acute the problem of Bulgaria's future as a country and nation. The question that is increasingly being raised by society is: what have we really achieved more than a quarter of a century after the start of the changes and after ten years of European membership? Is there a middle class? Did you reduce the gap between rich and poor? The low standard of living and uncertainty, the deficit of ideas, the lack of a cause, the crisis of values of trust, the authorities have deepened immensely. Society is incapable of resisting corruption and hatred. The lack of direction and path, the long-term vision of programme and action, dialogue and minimum agreement on national priorities, ABB opposes these processes. Although we have the capacity and political culture to participate fully in political life, we also realise the need to change ourselves. Change is necessary for everyone. In the name of putting an end to monopoly and agreement in ABB policy makes the first step through voluntary and conscious change without it being under internal or external pressure. Traditional parties do not have the confidence of the citizens because of the manifestation of conjuncture and lustery for power. Over the years, they have shown that they are easily deceiving their principles, often misleading voters, and using the power themselves. They are no longer able to emit the sustainable management formula. ABB will give another modern alternative to the status quo. We will seek consolidation of the nation and cooperation in combating the threats of today's society: terrorism, inequality, poverty, lack of perspective. It is not enough for us to see the problems, but also to indicate the solutions. We will fight for integrity in politics, transparency and honesty. Political compromises are inevitable in a society, but they should not become practice. Compromise should not replace the principle. ABB gives way to new, young and honest people who are ready to work for Bulgaria and ideas that bring changes and justice. The main priorities of the ABB will be: reduction of social inequalities, citizens' security, strengthening statehood and introducing a mixed electoral system. ABB has worked so far and will continue to work to increase incomes from labor. The work of Bulgarian citizens should be well paid and motivated. It is improbable to continue to build a low income economy because this leads to the choice of many Bulgarians to work and live with their families abroad. We will also insist on a significant increase in pensions for service and age. ABB will fight for decisive improvement of the scope and quality of Bulgarian education. We aim to introduce free access to nursery and gardens of every Bulgarian child. This will contribute to reducing the number of dropouts from school children. We will propose measures to improve the quality of secondary and higher education by creating more opportunities for attracting own resources from universities and developing new technologies. Access to healthcare should be guaranteed for every Bulgarian citizen. Measures are needed to limit the number of uninsured ones. A reform of disability pensions and care for disabled people is urgent. The state must ensure the treatment of severely and chronically ill children and adults regardless of their income. The security of the citizens is related to both protection against domestic crime and the state of the Bulgarian Army. A priority task is the resolution of the problem of the migrant crisis and the protection of the Bulgarian and common European border. ABB defends the need for a strong foreign policy that is based on Bulgaria's active participation in decision-making processes in the European Union and NATO. The prosperity of the Bulgarians and the success of the Bulgarian state depend on the development of the economy of the country. We are not only talking about macroeconomic stability, but also about a different structure of the Bulgarian economy - more added value, less low paid labour and less exports of raw materials. The main feature of statehood is active demographic policy. It includes both the promotion of birth rates and measures to prevent and limit early mortality. However, the lasting solution to Bulgaria's demographic problem is related to the quality of life of Bulgarian citizens, including education, health care and income. Bulgaria needs new children today, not questionable businessmen, showmakers and corporate politicians. We've had them before. Bulgaria cannot be changed by people who over the years have had majorities in parliament, have had a crucial role in the executive power and have not done enough. It's time for a revival! I wish success to all parties in the upcoming elections. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the ABB Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u46	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. In doing so, the statements on behalf of parliamentary groups regarding the opening of the new political season are closed. The duration of the season will be determined by President Radev. We're moving on to legislative activity. First, a proposal by the order of art. 50, para. 8. PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO DISCLOSURE GENOCIDE AFR THE BULGARIAN IMPERIA 1396? 1913 Let me remind you, honourable Members, that the bill was presented by the importers on 2 March 2016. Go ahead, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, as Mr. Glauchev said, we are continuing to examine this point, which from the Party of Ataka we have introduced into this National Assembly on 27 October 2014. The point is: Project for a decision to condemn the genocide of the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire 1396 - 1913. As you can guess, this decision, which we will eventually adopt, concerns all Bulgarians. Therefore, I propose that we make sure that the examination of this point is broadcast live on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Desislav Chukolov for direct broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio of the debates and the vote on this point. They voted 126 MPs: 37 against 41, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. To re-vote Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u49	Dear Mr. President, I propose a re-vote, as some of my fellow Members were not in the Chamber and could not vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u50	Revoting procedure! Vote 138 MPs: 52, against 38, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I'm opening the debate. The word has the people's representative Lutvi Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You were right to have the announcement that we are moving on to legislative activity and that decision projects have the power of law. And I ask: if today the Bulgarian Parliament accepts this draft decision, what will happen to any Bulgarian citizen or even a scientist historian who does not share the thesis in the draft decision?! Will you turn it down?! You're gonna take away his scientific titles?! You can't legislate with historical assessments. This is the first vice of the draft decision. Leave history to historians! Of course, we are well aware that the issue of the period of Ottoman rule over the Bulgarian lands affects deep layers of the collective unconscious, i.e. archtypes. That's true. We have a clear mind. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u52	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u53	But the responsibility of a politician, the dignity of a Bulgarian citizen, of a politician, of a nation is to be able to see beyond the historical prejudice, beyond the mythologies. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am talking about the Ottoman rule, because this is the correct term by which we can define the period from 1396 to 1878, and perhaps it is more correct to talk about 22 September 1908. This period cannot be defined as slavery because it does not fit within the semantic boundaries of the notion of slavery. The correct term is domination. It's a matter of historical complex to protect our slavery. I don't know what we'd get out of it. This one first. But the more important thing to say today in relation to this draft decision is that this period cannot be defined as genocide. This will be an absolute precedent in world history and global political history. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the only sensible thing that can do this National Assembly at the end of its term of office is to find strength within it and to end the debate as an abuse of history. [[beeping in P.F.]] , as a Project for a solution that passes dividing lines in Bulgarian society when the country needs unification, unity along the path of tolerance and along the path of reasonable, faithful, honorable reading of history. Everything else is political selfishness, an attempt to exploit historical events to extract dangerous political dividends and to expand the populist niche in Bulgarian politics. Nothing will contribute to this Project decision! From this Decision Project Bulgaria and the modern Bulgarian nation would only lose because there are risks for new dividing lines. The proposed bill is yet another vivid proof that ultimately the ultimate nationalism does not benefit either the nation or the people or the state! The ultimate nationalism of its deep nature is dangerous and anti-national, contrary to the interest of Bulgaria. I am convinced that the importers of the Project for a Decision are also aware that the period of Ottoman rule cannot be defined as slavery nor meets the criteria for genocide exercised on the Bulgarian people. Everything else is a rude politicisation of history. A dangerous precedent!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u54	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. - What's the line? I won't. For a procedure there is the word of the people representative Musa Palev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, this item was included on the National Assembly's agenda about a year ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u56	On 2 March 2016, the Council adopted Regulation
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u57	The debate on it was then postponed due to the lack of an opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Today, too, we do not have an opinion from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I propose that the debate on the point be postponed from today's meeting until the Committee on Foreign Affairs has done its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u58	Thank you, Mr. Palev. A reverse opinion? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to remind you that the draft decision has been tabled in accordance with all the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that is, there is no violation here and no matter whether the Commission has spoken. In one year, she had time to give a speech, and it was precisely 38 meetings that this Commission held in one year. No one's stopped her from saying anything. Moreover, it is a matter of honor and dignity to finally debate this issue in the Bulgarian National Assembly, to see, after all, who respects their own people and their own nation, which has been slaughtered for 500 years, tortured and subjected to all sorts of humiliations, including paying a blood tax, i.e. paying with their children to some enslavers. It is a matter of honor that the proposal made by the colleague should be rejected and that we continue the debate on the draft decision to condemn the genocide of the 500th century, not about slavery, a colleague, you have not even bothered to read what this Project proposes for a decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u60	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. We are voting on a proposal made by MP Musa Palev to postpone the debate on this point. Vote 139 MPs: 91, against 45, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u61	I propose re-voting and rethinking.. I particularly address GERB because for the second time in the form of abstinence and delay they have a feeling of national irresponsibility. There's no softer word to use.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u62	Please, the re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u63	Let's settle this. Let us decide at the end of this National Assembly, really with dignity to leave that we have adopted a decision here which morally obliges us to mark the date 17 May as the Day of the genocide of the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire, as we have acknowledged the Armenian genocide, as the world parliaments recognise the Armenian genocide and the Holocaust, Mr. Mestan. This is not historical prejudice and mythologiem, because factology shows exactly how many Bulgarians have been killed by almost half of the population only during the invasion of the gajal waves. I suggest we reschedule. Think with your Bulgarian hearts, please, not with the Turkish ones!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u64	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Revoting procedure. They voted 143 MPs: 86, against 50, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. The next item in our program is: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. Importers: Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs on 30 September 2016 There are no reports on the committees. On behalf of the importers Mr. Nikiforov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u65	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, we import a relatively short Bill for amendment and supplement of the Penal Code. In fact, we have envisaged five amendments to the sanctions relating to art. Art. 159b, Art. 159d of the Penal Code, in art. 280 also amendment of sanctions, in art. 281 amendment of sanctions and creation of the text of art. 321, para. 3 a change in the meaning and content of the text in question. Our motives are as follows: the increased migration flow through the Republic of Bulgaria puts on the agenda the need for changes in legislation aimed at stricter sanctions for the perpetrators of trafficking in human beings or the illegal transfer of people across the border. Statistics show that in very few cases there is an investigation into human trafficking, and most cases are about illegal passage across borders. In both cases, there is a need for adequate penalties to prevent perpetrators. First of all, we propose the current amendments to the Penal Code aimed at stricter penalties for the execution of crimes on trafficking in human beings, sewerage and illegal assistance for foreigners to reside and pass through the country. Secondly, with regard to the same compositions, we provide for the regulation that, in order to commit the crime by decision or by order of a group, organisation or organised criminal group, the sanction is stricter, that is to say, a qualified composition is envisaged. The relevant changes in art. 321 of the Penal Code. Thirdly, criminal liability is also envisaged for preparation and incitement to a crime under art. 280 and 281 of the Criminal Code of Secularism and illegal assistance for foreigners to reside or cross the country. The aim is to comprehensive criminal law protection of public relations, ensuring compliance with the order and passage across the country's border. I would like to stress that this idea is borrowed from an analysis by the Center for Prevention and Countering Corruption and Organized Crime at the Council of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikiforov. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u67	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, we have long been looking at the subject of migratory pressure with all of its derivatives, and we are constantly looking for an improvement in the functional and operational methods with which the state handles this problem and in solving this type of crisis. There are undoubtedly many factors that should be assessed at this time and given a new, long-term vision and strategy on how we should deal with this current problem. One factor, of course, is the fence with all its derivatives, how much it cost the state, how effective it is, how much time it is built and so on and so forth. There are different issues relating to the European Union's foreign policy in resolving conflicts in the Middle East and the permanent stabilisation of the problematic regions from which all these migration processes actually start. Speaking of trafficking in human beings, we are increasingly aware that in this case we are talking about a crime, as we have committed a crime when these people illegally cross the state border, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, we have committed a crime and the presence of one when they participate in criminal or organised groups. And the place of the state, we should note, is not only to instigate self-instigation for migrant hunting, but to adopt the right legal, legislative framework to treat these crimes very strictly. The penal code is in this regard, and we at the ABB believe it needs to be updated. Statistics, as well as the colleague, have expressed in the motives of our bill, show that in very few cases there is an investigation into trafficking in human beings. Most cases are for trespassing across the border. Colleagues, human trafficking is a difficult problem to prove, but this neglect does not solve the problem in any way. There is an urgent need for adequate penalties for prevention, for the purpose of responsibility and taking responsibility from these perpetrators. In this regard, on September 30, 2016, we from the ABB submitted a Project for Changes to the Criminal Code, which we agreed with BORKOR, which we also agreed with experts on Criminal Law and Process. We believe that we aim with the proposals a discussion on the overall philosophy of the Code and the specific criminal compositions. It must be regulated that the penalty is far stricter for committing the crime by decision or by order of a group, organisation or organised criminal group. That is, a qualified composition is envisaged. Finally, it is necessary to introduce criminal responsibility for preparation and incitement to crime under art. Article 280 281 of the Penal Code, namely sewerage and illegal assistance for foreigners to reside or cross the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention, we expect your adequate support to this Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Are there any lines? I won't. For speech the people representative Dimitar Lazarov and after him the people representative Valeri Siemonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We will support this Bill, which has been tabled by the ABB to amend the Penal Code and, of course, I am obliged to state that it should be between first and second reading, or in the little time that remains, in a very short period of time to do so and the corresponding For example, in art. 281, the creation of a new para. 3, where it concerns the participation of officials benefiting from office or organised crime group, the penalty is less than in other forms Naturally, these penalties must also be refined in the part of incitement and preparation for these crimes. So I say, we are in the first vote, I will support the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u70	Any lines to Mr. Lazarov? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u71	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will also unanimously support the proposed texts for a change in the Law, as we are very well aware, and from the very beginning of the refugee crisis, that this is one of the greatest threats to national security and the sovereignty of our homeland. In this regard, as early as 2015, if you remember, we have made changes with which we raised sanctions, but we support even greater sanctions, and we insist the executive power, no matter who is in power, to comply with the laws and to implement them, as this remains to be a very serious threat to our homeland, as winter will pass, the beautiful fluffy white snow will melt and grasshoppers will rise again, although, thank God, Bulgaria is protected from fence. So we will support your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u72	A line to Mr. Simeonov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will also support this bill, as it refers to a real problem, which has acquired great sharpness now with increased migratory pressure across the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. This draft really deserves attention and support not least because, unfortunately, certain media and certain political forces create in the Bulgarian society moods caused by this migratory pressure, by setting society not against those entities that refer to this Bill and who are the real culprits of the problem, illegally staying, crossing the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and entering the border of the Republic of Bulgaria, but against those who become victims or who take advantage of the illegal acts of the traffickers, of the channelmen. In Bulgarian media there are widely reported reports, programs showing how certain groups of illegal residents are caught in forests, in meadows, in settlements, in Sofia and so on, but no word is mentioned in any report, there is no investigation of the channels, for those who benefit, for those who, in a corrupt manner, obviously in close links with employees at the border, with employees and within the country of the authorities, are actually contributing to the phenomenon of illegal residents in the country, nor phenomena and persons such as Dinko, as other prominent patriots, instead of concentrating on monitoring and fighting against the sewerage, because of which these groups enter the country. Instead of concentrating on exposing, revealing the channels, the schemes through which these foreign citizens enter the territory of Bulgaria are transported and dumped here in the center of Sofia, they deal with the foreigners themselves who have become victims or have paid for this thing, i.e., with whose money certain Bulgarian citizens have benefited, apparently in complicity and with the employees of the law enforcement. This bill, however, exactly, unlike all this atmosphere and public moods created by both media and certain political forces, which will now support, I hope and they have said it, this bill, it is he who points to the real culprit, it falls into the target. The real culprit of the problem is the illegal residence of foreigners in Bulgaria and we are illegally crossing the border, is the sewerage, human trafficking, which is a system in which people, law enforcement officers and all those persons who, on the back of these people, are illegally enriching themselves against whom the state and legislation clearly do not now offer sufficiently effective mechanisms for countering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u74	Any lines to Mr. Kazak? I won't. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? Mr. Notev wants the floor and he gets it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, from the Parliamentary Group of the Party "Attack" we will support the submitted bill. I don't have to argue with our view. The set goals, which are evident from the motives of the bill, are part of the cause of the united patriots. I am pleased to hear that representatives of other parliamentary parties will also support the bill. It would have been nice if such an opinion had been shaped by the previous point, but that is already past, that is history. I would best like to address the importers with the following reservation. Honourable Members, your proposal as a design, as an objective deserves its support. I am concerned that with the way you introduce qualified compositions of the two main hypotheses, we are in conflict with legal definitions that are present in the common part of the Penal Code. Perhaps this will be the debate on second reading and precision of texts, but from now on it is appropriate to make the difference between the stage of criminal activity, such as preparation, along with experience, and forms of complicity in committing the crime, as is the preparation. The question of the responsibility of the person involved in the preparation of such a crime is determined. The accomplice is responsible as if he committed the crime as his perpetrator. The mixing of these two concepts, which are, by the way, detailed in art. Art. 26, Art. 31 of the Criminal Code may result in appropriate confusion in the application if we adopt these texts. We from "Attack" are available with clarification of this position and assistance in speeding up the revision of the texts, as I believe the bill, ready for the vote at second reading, will be tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u76	Any lines to Mr. Notev? I won't. Any other MPs? I don't see anyone willing to take part in the debate. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code No 654-01-111, submitted by Mariana Georgieva Todorova and a group of MPs. They voted 123 MPs: 117, against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from ABB.]] Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u77	Thank you, Madam President. I also thank all my fellow Members who have shown today that when principled solutions are proposed, there are no political differences. Therefore, on the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of our Rules of Procedure I suggest that we shorten the deadline for proposals between first and second readings to three days so that we can vote on this project within this National Assembly, if you agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u78	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 121 MPs: 60 against 1, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Tsochev, come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u79	Honourable Members, my request is that we actually rethink it and be within three days next week to adopt this bill. They were all unanimous at first reading. I'm going to ask you to show the proper reason and accept it at the moment of second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u80	It's a re-vote. They voted 125 MPs: 60, against 2, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next item of the proposal of the GERB group for inclusion in the program of: PROJECT FOR DECISION ON PROVIDES ON 6 NOVEMBER 2016 NATIONAL REFERENDUM with importers Dimitar Glauchev, Desislava Atanasova and Danail Kirilov. The draft decision has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government by my order of 15 November 2016. No reports by the two Standing Committees have been submitted. On behalf of the importers, the draft decision and its motives will be proposed by Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is the topic that excites society from 6 November 2016 when the referendum was held. We all give a very clear account of what was said by the Bulgarian voters. They do not agree with the current rules by which the MPs are elected, and therefore they want a majority element to be introduced and to be fully majority system. What the GERB Parliamentary Group is doing is very clear to comply with more than 2 million. Five hundred thousand. Bulgarian voters. Yes, of course, there are different opinions that the rest of the voters did not exercise their constitutional right in this direction. But we know that the strength of democracy is when parliamentary, presidential and local elections are held and the possibility of having a direct consultation with people with a referendum. We all accepted unconditionally the outcome of the presidential election, where the President-elect was elected with about 2 million Bulgarian votes. That is why we in the GERB Parliamentary Group state strongly that we must adopt a decision with the votes that had voted for the holding of this referendum and for a referendum that has three issues, and the three issues are supported: First, the MPs should be elected by a majority electoral system with an absolute majority in two rounds. Secondly, it supports the introduction of a mandatory vote on elections and referendums. Thirdly, it supports the annual state subsidy granted to finance a political party and coalitions to be 1 lev per real vote in the last parliamentary elections. I believe that this is precisely the issue that we will receive full support from the Reformation bloc and the speeches and proposals that are made by MPs. Because when we are sincere to the voters and we really want to testify to what they expect of us, let's respect that 2 million. Five hundred thousand. Bulgarian voters, not with a proposal that is made only for the purpose of populism, but we do not know what is the electoral burden of the proposal made by the Reformation bloc. By the end of 15 December 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs shall submit a report on the second vote on the bills adopted at the first vote concerning the decisions of the Commission. 1, 2 and 3. Members of Parliament, I believe that at the end of the work of the 43rd Parliament, we must comply with the will of the sovereign, and that is more than 2.5 million. Bulgarian voters. GERB's parliamentary group will support this decision and, as we have stated our political position, on Thursday, we will submit a bill that will find a place at a meeting of the Legal Commission, but, of course, next week we will be able to look at the bill at first reading so that we can actually meet the expectations of the Bulgarian voters. I believe that the majority choice will enable us to avoid exactly those contradictions that are present in society for this anonymity of the MPs as to whether the MPs defend the interests of the Bulgarian voters and whether the Bulgarian voters know their MPs by participating in their parliamentary activities and representing them from the multi-manded electoral regions. I believe that with the decision that the Bulgarian Parliament will make today will be key, it will be fundamental that the MPs really take into account the sovereign and when the votes in a referendum are over 2.5 million, we have nothing else to comment on, but we just need to take note of and give our vote in order to support these Bulgarian voters. I believe that in this way we will be able to actually counteract populism and give the Bulgarian President the opportunity by decree to make the respective zoning to be applicable in the upcoming early parliamentary elections. Because, honourable Members, if elections are held under the current rules, I do not know whether we will all be legitimate in the next parliament if we have not complied with those over 2.5 million. Bulgarian voters. I hope that everyone will vote wisely and will vote in such a way that their decisions really correspond to the need of Bulgarian society. Thank you and I hope that we will support this decision. [[Applause from AG to GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u82	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Essentially, the debate is open.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u83	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u84	You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u85	There's a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u86	Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u87	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On this point, as has become clear, as you have rightly announced, there are no opinions from the committees to which the Committee on Regional Development is addressed, nor from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Yesterday, the Committee on Legal Affairs quite rightly refused to deal with this issue, since it considered that this item is being introduced now, at the end of this National Assembly's term, only with purely political populist motives, which are aimed at bringing GERB to dress up for the last time before voters and to like some leading shows, but not to solve any problem. You know very well that there is a pending case before the Supreme Administrative Court, on which it depends at all what procedure should be taken from here on in the referendum. So this draft decision does not solve essentially any question. So, like in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I am making a procedural proposal to postpone the debate on this point until, first of all, a decision of the SAC, while there is clarity in the case and then possibly to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u88	A reverse opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u89	Before that, lines. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u90	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The statement by my colleague Kazak was declared a procedure and therefore I asked for a reverse opinion. I would like to highlight this. On yesterday, on a proposal from colleague Chetin Kazak, a debate arose regarding the inclusion of the draft decision on the agenda of the Legal Committee. The similar attempt is now being made, i.e. to block the discussion on the substance of the draft decision proposed by us. We object to this experience. First of all, we believe that yesterday was normal that this debate of an hour and a half that we had should not be on the agenda, but essentially. It was correct now to present to your attention a report of this discussion. Of course, I could replicate the main points in the debate from yesterday, and I hope that we will have this opportunity within the current debate here in plenary, but I insist that the discussion not be postponed, there is no time to delay. Within and within the horizon of this National Assembly, postponement would mean derogation, denial, rejection, sweeping the voter's will in terms of the referendum held and we will therefore all respond. We'll all be in charge, colleagues, and very soon. I hope you remember what you said on the Legal Committee and on this stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u91	My fellow Members, there has been a procedural proposal from Mr Kazak to postpone the debate. This is essentially a proposal by art. 52, para. 2, p. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You've also heard Mr. Kirilov's opposite opinion. Voting mode. Vote 167 MPs: for 89, against 73, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Proposed revoting Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u92	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! There was a movement in the Chamber, we are not sure if all of our fellow Members were able to vote on this procedural proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleague of reformers, I'm specifically addressing you because you, last week and this week in demagogy, have exceeded... [[Strength and noise and lines from BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u93	Colleagues, please, order in the court! I'll call the meeting off. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u94	I'm stopping, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u95	I called for order in the court, Mr. Kirilov. I didn't take your word for it. [[Laughter, excitement, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u96	I am addressing fellow reformers, who also raised this issue last week for debate before society and parliament. Colleagues, be consistent! The question of subsidy is one of three points on the draft decision. If you are consistent and sincere, please support.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u97	Mr. Kirilov, the procedure is for revoting. The room is responding with good reason. Have you made an offer to re-vote? [[Noise and lines from GERB: "Yes, yes. "]] Because of movement in the gym? Thank you. Colleagues, re-vote. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm asking the rightful colleagues to take their seats to make sure they're able to vote. Vote 179 MPs: 99 against 76 abstention 4. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'm calling a 30-minute recess. We'll continue at 12:10. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u98	I ask the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats, the meeting continues. The Quaestors, invite the MPs from BSP left Bulgaria. The point they have proposed is in order. This is Mr. Ermenkov. Moving on to: PROJECT OF THE DECISION TO REPEAT THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 29 MARCH 2012 ON THE TERMINATION OF THE NUCLEAR CENTRE OF THE PLAYER 28 Since 2012 Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The draft decision is allocated to the Energy Commission. There's no report. On behalf of the importers Mr. Ermenkov will present to us the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u99	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Before I introduce you to the decision we are proposing as a project, I would just like to draw your attention to a fact. The fact is that we have introduced this decision as early as July 2016. It is true that the President of the National Assembly has allocated it to the relevant committees, but that they have not done their job, I ask you not to be formally bound by the postponement of this decision because there is no report of the committees. However, the way we introduce these decisions, and the procedure in which we do so, is one of the few ways in which the opposition has the right to submit a law, despite the desire of the ruling majority. Attempts to cancel and postpone issues due to lack of opinion and reports of the relevant committees are a vitiation of this principle and the rights of the opposition, as by the way, has happened once today. Please, let's get to the point today. Whether you accept this decision or not is a matter of your conscience, I will shortly read the reasons, but running away from making a decision is running away from responsibility. Therefore, as MPs, I call on you to take responsibility for what will happen from now on with the Bulgarian electricity system. Whether you accept the decision or not, everyone will then answer to their voters. I would like to introduce you to the reasons why we have decided to submit this draft decision. Some of them, very briefly, I set out as soon as we wanted this issue to be included as a point on the regular agenda. Then you didn't agree now you're gonna have to listen to me a little bit more about what it's about. As I say to you, it is already known, 2004 it was decided to resume the project NPP "Belene" in which you notice the decision then was taken not because someone wanted to have nuclear power plant "Belene" but because the objective circumstances imposed and continue to impose another base power today. The mantras for photosolars and wind plants, which will provide the Bulgarian people with sustainable electricity, see that today they are disproved by nature itself. Not by us, by the opposition, or by those we wish to have "Belene" but by nature. Today, Bulgaria's electricity system is operating at a limit. And if someone wants to tell me that everything was fine, I want them to answer my question why do we have a request to Romania that we possibly import electricity from there? Why do we have to become an importer from a net electricity exporter today? What does that thing have to do with anything? It's probably some national responsible policy that Romanians are contaminating their environment with energy production, and we're going to buy it here at whatever cost?! But to continue with the project. During the period 2005 - 2006 we from the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria with a clear awareness of the great need for affordable, secure and clean electricity for Bulgaria continued the project for the construction of NPP Belene. In November 2006, after an auction held under all the rules, I repeat by all the rules the tender was held to refute any attempts to say that this was an illegal one. A winner was elected and the National Energy Company signed a contract with... Atomstroyexport.... for the delivery of two blocks of 1000 megawatts, then for a total of 3 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that At that time, it was the most profitable project to build a nuclear power plant in the world. The project had almost all the necessary permits. A strategic partner was found in RV's face. I am opening a clamp RV gave up not because it considered the project uneconomically effective, but because the government of Boyko Borisov was the main opponent of this project. And when the government of a country in which such a project is being built becomes an opponent of the project, tell me which foreign investor will remain here? He had the approval of the International Atomic Energy Agency and Euratom. There was an environmental impact assessment issued, as I have already said, a selected supplier, a site, consultants. In 2007 and 2009, according to established practices in such large-scale projects, which cannot be predicted in advance what and how will happen so that they can be signed immediately upon their signature, five additions to the basic contract were signed. Work on the preparation and licensing of the technical project shall be started. The site was prepared and licensed and a construction permit was issued. It took the Nuclear Regulatory Agency a week to launch the construction of Belene. By mid-2009, as I now have the pleasure to tell you today, Bulgaria was present at the atomic map of the world as one of the few nations developing nuclear power and building a second nuclear power plant. And it remained, as I told you, very little to begin the construction of the nuclear power plant. As a national responsible party at the end of the elections, unlike now, when you in a week and in two weeks are trying to absorb 2.5 billion. BGN, we decided that it would not be ethical for the government led by Sergey Stanishev to sign the final parameters of a contract. And based on the fact that in Bulgaria there should probably be a normal policy and continuity for such strategic projects, we left this opportunity to GERB if they have any comments, if they have any views to bring them into the agreement and the final signing of the treaty. And I have to tell you, in truth, that GERB's first government continued its activities under the nuclear power plant "Belene" and for the period from 2009 to March 2012 signed nine further additions to the basic contract and paid over 380 million. lv. Something that was a normal policy in a country where infrastructure projects are believed to have their consistency in realization. Unfortunately, despite the huge work, despite the invested funds, despite the severe social consequences of this decision, limiting employment and income opportunities in a period in which the world had already entered into a financial crisis, and we could develop a project that could bring income, create jobs and not only of the construction itself, but also around this activity, with its decision of 27 March 2012, quickly confirmed on the next day of the Forty-first National Assembly with the votes of GERB and the Reformist bloc now, then the Blue Coalition ended the project, causing a situation where, unfortunately, you know, hundreds of Bulgarians will pay, tens of subsequent generations. With the exception of point 1 of that decision, the construction of the nuclear power plant is terminated, nothing else in that decision has been implemented, which also shows its insolvency. I would remind you that in this decision there was a second point with which the Council of Ministers was asked to start the study, the completion of a steam station on the site of the nuclear power plant "Belene" and required the Minister of Energy to periodically report what was happening with this study. Nothing, I say again, from point two and point three was not visible. This decision was made with one single aim to put a cross to the Project "NPP " Belene. All this time we have explained that this project is necessary and we keep doing it! Naturally, by defending its rights under the signed contract and the signed agreements, as I have already said, five of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and nine of the first GERB government, you heard five of the BSP and nine of GERB, the Atomstroyexports filed a claim in the International Arbitration and won it and we were forced to pay more than 1 billion. lv. for this equipment. The question of colleagues from GERB is here whether the reason is that he started the project, or as is in the decision of the Arbitration: the fact that it was stopped illegally. I think the D.A. will handle this case and give his answer to why he's stopped and who's responsible for this thing. Today the situation is extremely difficult. The losses from the inconsistent policy -- wrong decisions, lack of vision and bad governance -- are currently approaching around 3 billion. lv. The poor condition of the National Electricity Company was further improved with the money it had to pay to the Atomstroyexport. For these reasons, the construction of the nuclear power plant "Belene" with its own power or the sale of this equipment to a third party will not work. It won't work because, to be honest, Bulgaria really has nowhere to get all the money for the construction of this nuclear power plant. I mean, the other reason is there's nowhere to sell it, because there's no...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u100	Mr. Ermenkov, in order not to interrupt, you may extend your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u101	Yeah. Let me just note that in the world of 34 atomic blocks that Rosatom is building, only two are of the type of equipment produced. It's impossible to look somewhere to sell it. I've said many times that a nuclear reactor is not a second-hand car. You couldn't have ordered it for a certain playground, a certain playground to be licensed for it, and you could try to sell it somewhere where eventually someone might want it, but there isn't one. There's a solution. The solution is one single solution and this is: realization of the project. Whether it will be with the participation of the National Electricity Company in the form of an advance contribution of ownership, whether it will be through the appropriate way of privatizing this transaction, but mandatory with state participation, this project must be implemented. [[Noise and lines.]] In order for it to be realized, we, as the National Assembly, must remove the brake that we have put on. In 2012, what we have done is a ban on working at all on the topic of Belene, on this site, with this equipment. Any talk about how the Council of Ministers should examine what necessary additional decisions should be taken, what other measures should be taken, what needs to be done, what should be done, it is the work of the Council of Ministers, they should examine themselves, they should clarify their problem and when they reach a solution, they can inform the National Assembly in whatever composition it is to make those decisions that are necessary. In order for this project to be launched today to be able to have talks with potential investors so that it can be legal so that it does not conflict with the decisions of the National Assembly, which I think by the end of the forty-third National Assembly should be clear to all colleagues that they are by the power of law, this decision must be repealed. Otherwise, we fall into the condition: we know that we have made a mistake, but we do not want to admit it; we know that the right way is for this decision to be canceled, but we are looking for the way to do it a little bit more, you will excuse me for the harsh word,. Hey, let's both cancel it and stay white and clean. You guys, you can't stay white when you're dirty. That's impossible. It's not in the nature of this thing. By the way, when I said the nature, look out what's going on. Think about it today, if we had a functioning reactor that works in Belene, would we be shaky about the forecast if it gets colder, what will be the consumption of electricity? Perhaps we would be able to produce the electricity that is needed for us to be able to export to those who are currently in need of it, and to earn. The project is profitable. He's a winner to whoever's involved in it. It will not be profitable if the state abdicates from this project and seeks someone to like it 100%. This is national irresponsible, which means that we will be looking for a small element of return from the sale. Colleagues, the sale is always a waste. You know that very well. The sale means selling something at a much lower price than it costs, instead of using it to produce electricity and sell the production. Instead of completing the investment and starting its recovery from the production it produces. Please show some strength. The power is not to persist in your own mistake. The power is to admit the mistake, overcome it and make a decision that is nationally responsible. There's no campaigning here, there's no campaigning here. There's just an elementary equation here. It is: what is energy consumption, on the one hand, what you can offer sustainablely, on the other. The basic energy is the one that ensures the stability of the state. I will not enter into such forecasts what happens to coal plants in Bulgaria, because the conversation will become very professional. There's only two things I want to tell you. Much of these plants are already on the brink of their technological use, purely recyclable, purely technological. Given the decisions in Paris for environmental protection, emissions will increase. Appreciation of emissions will lead to an increase in production from those plants that emit emissions and have to buy them. Part of these enterprises, I would say the main part of electricity generating coal. The output is either a gas power plant or a nuclear power plant. If we really want to be a modern state, if we want to be what is at stake in the government's strategy to bring in electricity, electric vehicles to improve the quality of human life, and it is measured by the amount of electricity per capita, not by anything else, very please be reasonable, it's not scary and it doesn't hurt to admit the mistake. Let's cancel this decision, let's untie the hands of this government and the caretaker government to look for options without breaking the law. Otherwise, I am worried that if we do not cancel this decision, tomorrow the prosecution will deal with every single minister who has continued to act in the direction of the construction of the NPP "Belene" without a canceled decision of the National Assembly expressly prohibiting it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u102	Any lines to Mr. Ermenkov? I won't. To speak, there is Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is somehow even more honest to raise the question now. It's not clear what BSP says. They say so: If we win the elections, if we make a government, we will not just tax the middle class with higher taxes with the progressive taxation that we intend to introduce, but we will also build the Belene. That's what they say. That in some sense is more honest. Now is the time to be clear. I mean, if these people win the election, that's what they'll do. They plan to build a nuclear plant in an area that is seismologically dangerous. After all that has happened, after all that has happened, they want to build a nuclear plant in an area that is more dangerous to the NPP. This is obvious for nuclear specialists, for people who have dealt with the subject. "Belene" from a seismological point of view has a higher risk than "Kozloduy." Everyone knows what I'm saying. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important what Parliament will do today. It's pretty obvious. Parliament today will not accept this decision of the BSP. It is more important what the parliament will do tomorrow, the next National Assembly, whether you would then accept this proposal and what will happen next. Belene is talking about private investors from day one. There was one, there was talk of many others, but the facts are as follows. Of the two and more billion leva spent on Belene to date, each lev was at the expense of our taxpayer. We've all paid the entire bill to the last penny, and the arbitration case, and everything. There's only talk of investors. They make calls, but they don't pay the bill. They're involved in the conversation. Usually people from BSP show them to us and say: Here, this is an investor. But when it comes to paying the bill, we pay it, the taxpayers. An investor for Belene didn't give a single lev. That's how it's gonna be from here on out. However, no less dangerous is the plan of colleagues from GERB who want a private investor to build the nuclear plant, which is a retreat from what they had as a position at the beginning. Because even if such a private investor appears, remember my word, step by step and gradually the costs will be transferred to the state. Initially there will probably be some private investor, but when it comes to paying the bill, it will gradually come to us, taxpayers, we will pay all the time. That's what this is about. Dear colleagues, why build a nuclear plant if we do not have an answer to the following questions, BSP colleagues also have no answers to these questions, namely that during the winter there was a need for additional capacity for 10 or 20 days, there is no reason to build a nuclear power plant. That's no reason! You, colleagues from BSP, market for NPP Belene, have no and never have! To the simple question, what will you do with the electricity from this power station?.... to this simple direct question there is no answer. There's one common answer as to how this current would be exported somewhere. But to the specific question where exactly are you going to export it, there is no answer to this question. Next, even if a private investor appears, as the colleagues of GERB want, questions with seismological risk remain unresolved, as there has been a report by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences since the late 1980s, which says that in this place it is not wise to build a nuclear plant. It's not wise! And I ask you, colleagues, as nationally responsible people: why do you want to put a huge risk of nuclear damage Bulgaria in order to build a plant on a site with a higher seismological risk against! [[Voices from BSP: "Eeeeeee."]] Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u104	Colleagues on the left, you're preventing me from following the debate. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u105	Colleagues, please listen. You'll have all the lines in the world after that. I'll hear them with great interest. Next, the issue of nuclear waste and the fuel used for "Kozloduy" is not solved, and you want to build a new nuclear power plant. That question is not resolved. I haven't seen one person from the BSP say: The state from which I have been elected will accept the nuclear fuel and nuclear waste. I didn't see one of the BSP say, "I'm the one who solves this issue!" I've been elected to Sliven, and I'm solving this issue, and we're going to accept them in our municipality. I didn't see one of those MPs from the BSP! So if you want to build a nuclear power plant, you have to make commitments and, in this way, what we're going to do with nuclear waste. There is also an indirect question to GERB why, colleagues, do you want a private investor to build a nuclear plant, knowing that the issue of spent fuel and nuclear waste will be a commitment to us taxpayers that we will pay for the oil from now until the end of the world?! Next, when one day it comes to closing such a nuclear power plant, who will pay the bill? It's all of us again! Even if there is a private investor, colleagues, it is a profound delusion that he will pay the huge costs, the multibillion-dollar costs of closing this plant. Let's ask ourselves this question: if we had not stopped the project at the 41st National Assembly and now imagine that today "Belene" was built and worked, what would you be doing with this electricity outside the winter consumption of 20 days? What were you going to do and where were you going to sell it? [[Reply from BSP LB.]] There is no answer to that question. There is no market for Belene. And there never was, by the way. "Belene" has always cost over 20 billion. BGN, colleagues who BSP continues to want to spend at the expense of the state budget. Listen to me very well. "BSP wants to spend 20 billion. lv. at the expense of the state budget. That's it! Because they want state Belene. This means placing the entire budgetary system at risk of bankruptcy. That's what I'm talking about! GERB's plan is not much better. They want a private investor to take the risk, but we know that even if this happens at the beginning, this risk will gradually be transferred to us taxpayers, and we will still pay the entire account, which puts the entire budget system at risk again. People need to know that if BSP wins the elections and goes to build Belene as a state project, because they have always wanted this and nothing else, it will call into question the functioning of the state and of important systems, including pension, because 20 billion. lv. is a huge burden for the Bulgarian budget, impossible to implement, impossible to pay. In no way, fellow Members, I do not accept that two billion has been spent. lv. For Belene, this is an argument to spend another 20. This argument is at least accepted and is the most ridiculous of all. Because if the state is committed to another 20 billion. BGN, honourable Members, this will be a crisis in which, if you bring the state, you, colleagues from BSP, difficult this project will be resolved by any central government after that. I would therefore like to finally talk about the responsibility of this and the next National Assembly. We know how the BSP colleagues will vote. We have great doubt that their traditional coalition partner DPS will support them, as it supports them in almost everything. But I'm addressing the others. On this point, I address colleagues from the Patriotic Front, those who are in the Chamber, because some of those who are not in the Chamber... and this is no coincidence. I address colleagues from GERB, I also address colleagues from the Reformation Block. Today, we must strongly confirm the suspension of the project and reject BSP's proposal, because this threat to the financial stability of the state is unacceptable. It is important how we vote and do it in a firm way! The good solution is that the two reactors should be sold on a market basis somewhere in the world. [[Shouting from BSP.]] If we hadn't ordered reactors without a contract, without secured funding, we wouldn't be in this situation, there wouldn't be an arbitrage case, hundreds of millions wouldn't be wasted. But we're already in this situation. Now we're in a situation where damage is minimized. And the damage can be minimized by selling the equipment. Therefore, fellow Members, I call on you for serious treatment now and in the next Parliament to stop this project once and for all and to end this topic once and for all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u106	Replices to Mr. Dimitrov. Here's your first line, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u107	Dear Madam President, honourable colleague Dimitrov, honourable colleagues! I will try briefly to put some questions to your speech. The first question you have asked, my dear colleague Dimitrov, speaking of winter, you have somehow veiled the use of the electricity produced by Belene. Colleague Dimitrov, what does Brazil do with its coffee when it has a lot of coffee? Have you heard Brazil throw its coffee into the ocean, or is it taking it to other countries? Have you by any chance heard the statement of what India is doing with its cotton? Does he let it go on the Ganges River, or does he produce textile products and export it all over the world? Colleague Dimitrov, in your exposition, you didn't affect two things. First, that electricity is a standard commodity and when you produce it at a lower price, oil, with certain chemical qualities, or electricity, when it is cheaper, you can export it to countries that have ten power plants if it is cheaper, as it comes out of the analyses of English and Swiss analytic companies. Secondly, when there is no industry, Bulgaria does not have electricity consumption?! Can you imagine if another 30 businesses close down, in our collapsed economy, we have no electricity yesterday we want from Romania. [[Reply by MP Martin Dimitrov.]] Having electricity from "Belene" an esteemed colleague, there should be industrial clusters from private companies - energy-intensive to use cheap electricity and Bulgaria to be competitive. Secondly, honourable Member, I do not recommend that you consider questions about seismology at all, as this is none of our business. First of all, it's not an ideological issue and it's not the MPs'. Colleague, there is an agency that is called the "Nuclear Atomic Agency" which is authorized by the United Nations as the only one, a colleague, in the world that can pronounce whether or not the site can be used. The European Union, the International Agency, said it could. That's what the Bulgarian agency says. Finally, yes, in fact, a colleague, you will agree that in Bulgaria there are some grenades who receive money against ruining the Bulgarian economy, to make subordinate Bulgarian energy to smoke their chimneys from the Maritsa East. 1 and 3. You've got a lot of health! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u108	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. [[National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov wants the floor for a reply.]] Mr. Bajraktarov, Mr. Tasco Ermenkov and Mr. Georgi Bozhinov are listed for the second line. They gave a sign considerably before you. [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Velchev.]] Mr. Velchev, they asked for this thing much earlier. Mr. Bayraktarov entered the hall and then gave... [[Comments from GERB and PF.]] They were announced. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u109	Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you have correctly understood that if the Bulgarian Socialist Party comes to power, we will do everything possible to implement the project. You're absolutely right, but you didn't listen carefully to what I said! I said the same thing. The state can't do it on its own, it doesn't have that resource. However, this is a matter of listening and attitude. Maybe sometimes you listen to yourself better than others. As for the technological hazard, neither you nor I nor anyone else in this room are the ones to give the grades. There is a Nuclear Regulatory Agency, and you know very well what her grades are. I'll only give you two examples. Belene's headquarters is able to withstand the biggest bowling fall on it without a technological catastrophe. Belene's headquarters sustained an earthquake of up to nine on the Richter. Belene's headquarters are further away from the seismic outbreak than Turnu Mugurele, Romania. This power plant is so designed that even if it breaks up above.. Black water.. and there is also a flood, the site will remain 40 centimeters above the water with everything flooded around. Instead of being where people drown, there people will go to save themselves because it will be the only dry place in the region. There's something else I want to tell you. When you talk about where this electricity will be used, you are most likely based on your own views on the development of the economy of the state, lack of such, lack of consumption in the economy, lack of industry development, lack of development of electricity, no need for electricity at all. We'd better switch to steam stoves, wood burns and so on. This must be your view of Bulgaria. The view of the Bulgarian Socialist Party for Bulgaria is a high industrial state, with high technological production, which also requires the use of electricity rather than wood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u110	Thank you. Third line, Mr. Georgi Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Dimitrov, I see you as one of the sign figures of the Bulgarian political right. And when I tried to understand your expertise and your political motivation, involuntarily, somehow naturally, the question arose in me: what was the level of Bulgarian government 50 years ago, at that level of technology development, of security for nuclear safety, of the ability to see in perspective the economic development of Bulgaria and the markets?! My answer is that if the level were then so primitive in expert terms and so vicious in political dimensions, we not only wouldn't have a nuclear power plant, not only would we not have such a development of the accompanying industries, including education, and we would be a much more backward country than we are today following these experiments. That's why I'm asking myself: is that your belief? Is this the level of your state-of-the-art, expert and political thinking, or are you subject to foreign suggestions that want to prevent Bulgaria today when the two major trends are emerging in the main investment areas of high technology and energy? Are you deliberately doing someone else's will and someone else's thought? [[Reply from the MP.]] What did the interim chairman of the Temporary Commission react with gestures to the permanent handicaps in energy, I do not understand? [[Applause from BSP LB. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u112	Time's up. Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. For the doppelganger, the People's Representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Colleagues from BSP, you know, back in the day it might have been true that communism plus electrification leads to socialism. This is no longer the case for the following reasons. I'll start with my colleague Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u114	To Soviet power. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u115	Socialism and Soviet power, of course. I'll start with what my colleague Gechev said. He said: in Brazil it is very good that there is coffee, why not no more coffee. India produces textiles, why not... [[Replying and shouting from BSP LB.]] Listen to the answers when you ask. Or are you just asking without an answer?! The power can't be stored, colleagues. The current, unlike coffee and textiles, cannot be stored, which means it must be sold immediately. Listen to something important: and right now Bulgaria, before winter, used about half the production capacity and exports very little because demand from neighbouring countries is low. Did you hear me?! Low demand at the moment. [[Replying and shouting from BSP LB.]] If you had built the headquarters at the moment, you had no one to sell this electricity to except the BSP headquarters. That is, outside BSP headquarters, other consumers would not be able to find. Cheap electricity. Analyses show that the current from Belene would not be cheap, colleagues. On the contrary, it would have been more expensive than the average electricity price at the moment in Bulgaria. The cheap electricity thing... [[Replication by the National Representative Rumen Gechev. Voices and noise in BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u116	Mr. Gechev, please very much do not replicate in this way from a place like you were not replicated when you made the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u117	Colleagues of the BSP, I have listened to you most carefully, and let you, too, show some respect, listen. Next, growth around 3% last year leads to a decline in electricity consumption at the moment. There is no right link, a straight proportional link between the growth of the economy and the increase in electricity consumption anymore. This is due to the fact that growth is now another type of intensive growth. So there's no direct link. There's no direct link. Next, fellow Members, who were foreign interests and foreign suggestions. I, with the same arguments, am skeptical of having a seventh block of Kozloduy who wants to build it with American capital. You know he's got that idea. With the same arguments, I am once again skeptical, while you think about it, you support one idea, and you are strongly against the other. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I mean, if there are other people's suggestions, don't look for them here, dear colleagues! It's not the foreign suggestion, but look at this subject in the mirror, I'd say, to find the foreign suggestion. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Next up, fellow Members! Most importantly, if at the moment the Belene was built, you had nothing to do with this current, you had nowhere to take it out. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Tell me a real market! Tell me one big order! Tell me a country that is ready to buy electricity from Bulgaria and this should be a neighbouring country, because, Mr. Gechev, unlike the coffee that can be exported thousands of miles away, the electricity has the following problem: the greater the distance of the sale, the more expensive the deal is. There's a high transaction cost. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] So tell me, who would buy?! Who would buy this electricity from BSP's esteemed colleagues?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u118	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. To make a speech is the popular representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front "Mr. Dimitar Bajraktarov."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I listened carefully to the debate and was struck by the exceptional inaccuracies regarding the history of this already 36-year-old, not two months old, project NPP Belene. Dear Mr. President, I suppose you wouldn't mind, in order to be as precise as possible, to refer to the citation of official documents to clarify precisely the story. As you know, with Decree No 9, 1981, March was given a green light for the construction of a nuclear power plant For various reasons, in order to save time, honourable Members, Decision No 106 suspended in 1990 or, in particular, freeze the construction of this project. There's already an interesting shade here that's good to know. A month later, the Bulgarian MPs from BSP submitted a proposal to the Grand National Assembly and a signature from the residents of Veliko Tarnovo, Svishtov Something that was, I don't know, silent. However, when there is a history, it is good to be subject to official documents as well. Then, a few months later, the government of Dimitar Popov decided to build a gas energy block, and for that purpose the metal housing of the already purchased reactor must be used, which, God knows, how much money was given for it and at what fabulous price it was sold. Here I address my colleague Martin Dimitrov in the hopes that he will not ask for a personal explanation to tell you, colleague Dimitrov, that I absolutely do not share your economic logic, because it is in the wrong direction of an economist who thinks in a normal way, but here economic logic is subject to another, abnormal thinking. I won't, I did my best when this Decision Project was introduced, to see if there was another project like this that wasn't real, which was worth so much money to any country around the world. Here we are ready to apply for Guinness's record. I won't! That is, you can see that economic logic is already turning and going in another direction, and the direction is: let's open a mega project from which we can drain, not to say to steal, public money. And if you've forgotten, just a month ago and something we once again spilled, absolutely deliberately using this word we spilled, one billion and two hundred million for the insanity called the NPP Belene, that is, a lot of people have an interest in using this mega project. Firstly, I would ask: why, since there is such a great interest, does no one so far use, say, the housing fund that has been built? And now I'm going to give you one more interesting fact that isn't just built, this housing fund is furnished at the last word of its time, and it's costing its security, and at the same time we say there's no available housing. Here, let's say the homeless Roma can direct them there. There is a good school to train their children, to educate themselves and to live instead of spending money, only there is no direction in this direction. I can immediately open you up a parallel with the other mega-energy project from that great energy helmet South Stream. Is there any other undeveloped project that started at a price of 600 million? EUR and ended unrealized at 2 billion. 200 million. euros and billions of left-wing public funds spent?! Finally, we say: it was populism because there is no money for social policy, for increasing pensions, for increasing income. Well, how will there be? How will there be, by constantly offering such nonsense that only consume public resources and at the same time continue to turn the state from poor to poorer?! Finally, in order not to bore the audience, I would like to ask the importers: do they have a solution and would they say how much it would cost to store spent nuclear fuel? As far as I know, to this day Bulgaria is in a very unpleasant situation that the contracts with the Russian state are running out, even if they haven't leaked, if my memory is not lying to me, about storing spent nuclear fuel and we still have no storage of these waste to date. In addition, I will have to stress here... from hazardous radioactive waste, a problem that is global. There is no country that has a nuclear power plant and is not on its knees to this problem. Besides, where is this nuclear storage going to be built? Perhaps, as you said, colleague Dimitrov, at some party headquarters will only be built because I do not see what will be the settlement that will agree on its territory to build such a repository. I'm just gonna stop here. Just to let you know that this thing will probably cost, in recent calculations, over a billion and three hundred million leva, over a billion, standing as a Damoklev sword over the head of the state. Who's gonna pay for it? Who?! The one who offers an untenable project from which billions more levs will be stolen?! This is economic logic, colleague Dimitrov. And she is subject to an old Bulgarian saying: I hope you understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u120	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. First line.. People's representative Martin Dimitrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u121	Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Bajraktarov! You missed an important question. My question to the Minister of Environment and Water is clearly answered that it is still valid. The same question I asked Tomislav Donchev. He says that because the administrative buildings that you talked about were built there, if they are now building a new nuclear plant on this site, there is no need to make a new EIA, although the legal period of five years has expired. This makes me think, colleague Bajraktarov, that there are people in GERB, I know that not everyone is of this mind, but that there are people who are going in the next term together with their colleagues from BSP to build the plant, that is what I am worried about. Otherwise, there is no reasonable reason for the Ministry of Environment and Water to claim that the old EIA is still valid. The only logic is that someone's getting ready to build the plant. So I ask you on this question: how do you understand the situation, and how is it that after the legal deadline has expired because of built homes or administrative buildings, the EIA, which should concern the security of a nuclear power plant, is still valid? As a journalist, as a public figure, don't you find it surprising and don't you think that these people who want to build new nuclear plants, at least, if nothing else, should make a new EIA to see if the degree of danger has increased in this period? Otherwise, I did not finally understand whether you agree with my conclusion that these reactors should be sold and that the issue of Belene would be closed once and for all?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u122	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Second line? I won't. A hole? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Dimitrov, on the issue of EIA, my opinion is that there is corruption practice. That I can share as my own opinion. On whether the reactors should be sold. I personally wish they were sold at the highest possible price, because if only it is stressed that they should be sold, it is usually bordered by giving, that is, a new corruption scheme is applied and the reactors in question, for which a great deal of money has been paid, are given at one point and someone takes the difference and commissions under the table. That is, there must be a very serious procedure here to control the sale of these reactors, something that is extremely important. Otherwise, we agree on that. Finally, I can tell you a lot of things, but I will address the manager of the TV station Mr. Dancho Hadzhiev with a request to broadcast on TV the documentary which I made as a journalist the Great Energy Slam, as I will not have enough time to state all the facts and arguments. I may need at least two weeks, and we don't have parliamentary time. So the conclusion is clear, and I hope that BSP colleagues will also understand it, because I believe that there are many reasonable people out there who are reasonable enough to know that this is the truth. I'm not gonna talk because you said the stuff that doesn't even have a market. You can't build a factory, as they say, on September 8th, when on September 9th it will either be closed or nationalized and then closed. So that's the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u124	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, what we are doing right now is clear that it is an election, we are almost in the election campaign. We will hear a lot of things here, most of them will not be expert on whether we need new power or not, but will be stepped up in terms of which voters we want to vote for us. In fact, the actual situation at the moment is as follows. Bulgaria has enough capacity to cover its current needs, even exports. But that's it now. [[Reply from BSD LB.]] He's carrying no more than 100 megawatts right now, but whatever. Another point is that for this reason that we are not currently feeding our stock market, yesterday energy peak reached 290 BGN, provided that only a month or two ago was about 110 BGN. So it's very dynamic in terms of electricity prices. We can't jump to conclusions right when it was 60 BGN, we can't jump to conclusions when it was 290. It won't be serious in terms of expertise, in terms of strategy. Will Bulgaria need new capacities? Yeah, I'm sure of it. In exactly 10 years, Bulgaria will already need new capacities. Why do I think that? Because at the World Energy Conference, which was very soon in Istanbul, it was said that a tonne of carbon emissions of 10 euros would become 50 euros, and only 4-5 years later, we are talking about 2021. It will put enormous pressure on our coal production and therefore on the thermal plants. This will exert inevitable pressure on them not being able to protect their competitive position in the sale of electricity on the market. In this case, we need to ask ourselves what we do as a country, what we will develop. Given that we already have two reactors, we have paid them, which have been paid on the basis of a ruling of an arbitration court in Geneva, there is now talk here that we can sell them. Soon I looked at my records of the arbitration case, of a delegation in which we were with Minister Dobrev then, Mr. Kiryenko says that they cannot commit to selling these reactors despite our requirement to them. They said that for Akuyo to forget it at all, it is too late, and for China it is definitely impossible to talk about, because Chinese companies themselves do not want reactors that are not specially designed for their plants. The question arises where will we sell them? We saw it didn't work in Iran. But after all, this thesis that we're going to sell it stands. In fact, I've already found out there are corruption schemes for the sale. Well, nobody wants them. How do we sell them? What is this corruption scheme if you don't want it? So the question arises: what are we really doing with these reactors? The decision is absolutely market-based: at the moment the Council of Ministers has obliged Minister Petkova, for now a Minister for Energy Retirement, to examine the possibility of realising these reactors, namely as a new nuclear power plant, and to sell them on the basis of this study through the Privatization Agency. And if there's really a market entity to invest, I don't see why not. These will be the new base capacities that will eventually replace future loss of underlying capacities, which are expected categorically on the basis of the Paris Conference. Because it was heard here in connection with the treaty with the Russian side in terms of spent nuclear fuel. The nuclear fuel produced to the Russian side concerns only the fuel of the third and fourth units. On the fifth and sixth block of nuclear fuel we store it here. It is currently being invested through the Fund of the "Kozloduy" a dry warehouse of spent nuclear fuel in the village of Harlec, namely the NPP of Kozloduy. It has already started, its construction is yet to come. So there the treaty with the Russian side is still going on. There are no fixed deadlines. Yet, if any, will be conducted in terms of whether this fuel that we have ever given and they extract plutonium from it will be returned to Bulgaria. This is a very long issue that does not concern either "Belene" or "Kozloduy" nuclear power plant in terms of the 5th and 6th bloc. We can no longer give this nuclear fuel on the basis of the European Commission's decisions and directive that we have no right to export nuclear fuel to third countries. But, anyway, Bulgaria needs nuclear power. At the moment, it has invested over 3 billion. lv. in the so-called "Project "Belene". That he was corrupt, it's clear to everyone. That you were neat in the dark, that you didn't follow procedures, it's clear to everyone. But the facts are facts. Facts are facts! Right now we've invested so much money, let's think about what we're gonna do, provided we can't sell. If we sell, here, I see a lot of salesmen. But if we can't sell them, we have to invest them in something. Maybe in a museum! It's also an option. Maybe we can kill the money out of tickets. It's okay! But anyway, we have to think about where we're going to develop our nuclear energy. At this conference, they said that the possible routes are three gas, renewables and nuclear energy. These are the three future opportunities for energy development. Including Saudi Arabia will do nuclear energy. So let's not reject this possibility. Let's give it up and the government's right to go down that road. It has already given the opportunity to explore this possibility on the basis of paid investments. So let's let the government do its job, the next government to come, to do its job. There is no point in adopting at the moment of this decision. For me the road is right and the Gordyev knot in the Bulgarian energy has already untied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u126	First line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u127	Mr. Nikolov, that's what I understand. GERB will not support the ban on construction for Belene, it will do so in the next parliament. That's what I heard. He will wait for the next parliament to come, will look for an investor and together with BSP we will build Belene. That's what I understand, Mr. Nikolov. If I misunderstand you, please clarify your words. Mr. Ermenkov said I understood correctly, so the job is clear. [[Reply of National Representative Valentin Nikolov. Laughter at GERB.]] Second question. In 2010 there was a forecast that if there was no "Belene" there would be a current mode. Did that forecast come true, colleagues? Did it come true, colleagues, this forecast? The answer is, it didn't come true! I mean, it came in 2010, it came in 2011, it didn't come in until 2016. Is there any power mode, colleagues? I won't. Is there a Belene? I won't. Now you're talking about a next forecast how, after 10 years, if there were no new base nuclear facilities, Bulgaria would still have problems. That sounds like the old forecast that wasn't justified. You guys have nothing in black and white. You guys don't have anything in black and white!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u128	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u129	You can extend the time, Mr. Dimitrov, if you like.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u130	I want an extension of time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u131	There's such a desire, lengthen the time!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u132	You've got nothing in black and white! You don't have a serious analysis that shows the need for new nuclear power and you're willing to spend 20 billion! It's bordering on madness, people! Neither BSP nor you have written or submitted a serious analysis that says that without a new nuclear power, there is a deficit in a given year and without such an analysis, you are ready to waste 20 billion! It's bordering on madness. There is no other word but madness. The only explanation is that you want to continue the line: the dog is dragging, there is no trail! You know, spending 2 or 3 billion is no reason to spend another 20 billion, and it can't be a reason to spend another 20 billion. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u133	Second line, Mr. Yankov, third line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u134	Dear Mr. Nikolov, according to what you said, you contradicted each other, but in the end you ended up with the decision that you have as a parliamentary group that you will not now support, but otherwise you are for the development of nuclear energy. I think you have speculated on what is the state of the energy sector at the moment. You know perfectly well that due to lack of investment, energy is currently running at full power for individual plants and emergency stops are expected at any time. [[GERB lines.]] You don't control the weather. There's no telling how long this coldness will last. Winter may be longer than you expect, and the intentions you express from the parliamentary tribune with a horizon of more than 10 days in which your government has to rule are not correct. Analysis. What analysis? You don't have enough analysis? You're quoting conferences. In Bulgaria, there are sufficiently trained professionals who have, without exception, pronounced themselves for the future of nuclear energy in the country and the concrete suspension of the project by parliament is a precedent for a legislative body to decide to suspend a project that is the result of a decision of the government, of executive power. Let us drop this restriction and the executive have its hands tied, and in relation to the decision that our fellow citizens are about to take in the upcoming elections, according to what representation in parliament will be like, the future executive to use the arguments of these professionals and take a decision. Enough of the investee. The project is advanced enough and you understand it yourself, you proved it yourself. What is the problem now to cancel your previous decision? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The problem is purely populist...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u135	Your problem is already in time, Mr. Yankov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u136	...looking at the upcoming election. Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. You remain consistent even at the end of your term as Chairman to interrupt the speakers prematurely. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u137	Mr. Yankov, turn around and see how much you've overdue 45 seconds! If you find anyone with a higher tolerance threshold than me, I'm ready to see it. [[Applause from GERB.]] Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u138	I'll take 30 seconds of the right to a personal explanation and then I'll make the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u139	No, first we finish the lines, there's a dot. After that, if you want, I'll give you the floor for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u140	Thank you. Dear Mr. Nikolov, I was happy to listen to your exhibition. I probably couldn't have said it better myself in terms of what is happening in Bulgaria with the energy sector and the prospects for its development. Especially for the fact that in order to sell something, there must be someone who wants to buy it, something that I see, there is no line of people who want to buy it right now. One single thing I could not understand in the end, and I would therefore ask you to answer me with what decision we propose to make is contrary to your concept of energy development in Bulgaria? Aren't you worried that, as I said in my speech, the ban, meaning we have confirmed a decision by the Council of Ministers to terminate the work on the site of Belene, and we have even given an order to work for a steam station, does it not bother you that the existence of this decision of the National Assembly at the moment and the government's activities to build a nuclear plant on this site, but whether it will be new, whether it will be old and whatever you want to call it, is not contrary to the decision of the National Assembly? Why should we go into case studies and not really take this decision to absolve governments from being free in their actions? We do not oblige them to build with State aid, we do not oblige them to build with a private investor, and we oblige them to implement the project. That's as wide as it gets. So please, you really made a wonderful statement, but it seems to me that the conclusion you finally made was incorrect. Let's help the governments do their job so they don't become the next ministers clients of the prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u141	A hole, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Dimitrov, I don't know who said 20 were spent or I don't know how many billion. There are different grades, but it's not that important. The government has said the following thing: "The government will let it go on the market and whoever wants to invest. The government will not give 20 billion and this is the right option because for Bulgaria this is a lot of money.. you know very well. Once again, provided there is no buyer, although you are constantly saying: "Let's sell it! " There is no buyer! The other alternative is to look for investors. I think the government's path is wrong without giving extra money for such a project, which is not at the moment, to look for other investors. Regarding the decision of the National Assembly, right or wrong, it was based on a decision submitted by the Council of Ministers on which we have spoken. If the Council of Ministers wants to cancel this decision or to make another, different decision, then the future Council of Ministers may make such a decision. There is no need for a party to make such a decision just before the elections so that it can somehow accumulate dividends.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u143	We've been bringing it in for two years.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u144	In this way, Parliament is divided and a single solution cannot be found in a specific case or at all for the whole of energy. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] For this reason, I believe that if the future Council of Ministers decides and considers that the road passes through the National Assembly, then he will submit it and will have the necessary majority to support it. I think that's not the idea, and that's a dividing idea that you're making. If you want to unite, here you expect to rule in the future, I don't know how many years, maybe tens of years from now, then you can really import and search for majorities, but right now you're dividing Parliament into politics. At the moment, there will be much more damage to energy by talking than benefits! Thank you. [[Single applause and shouts "Bravo" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u145	Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part? Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u146	Honourable Members, Madam President! The topic, rather today's debate is used both on the left and on the right for the purpose of election campaigning, is obvious to everyone. Those we've heard have been repeated. The debate is unnecessary, wasting the time of the National Assembly, not to mention that the proposal is not sufficiently thought-out because it proposes the annulment of only one decision of the National Assembly. On this subject, the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u147	And he's assigning to the Council of Ministers, which he doesn't have. There's only a resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u148	That's right! There is a Council of Ministers in resignation, only one decision is revoked. Even if it is accepted, it will hardly do the job that contracting entities hope to do for them. At the same time, there is a report from the Minister of Energy from December 2016 to the Council of Ministers with the following text: On 12.12.2016 NEK's expenditure on assets and facilities at the site of Belene is worth 1,390 billion. BGN and the costs of acquired equipment with a long production cycle under the arbitration decision amount to 1,177 billion. lv. In view of the above, and in view of the fact that NEC's contribution to the NEC project has been made in significant amounts (2,567 billion). lv.), I think it is appropriate to take action in order to protect public financial interests for the rational use of the constructed infrastructure and material base on the site of Belene and the equipment acquired with a long production cycle. In this respect, it is necessary: to prepare a technical economic and legal analysis which will provide opportunities for the use of the equipment acquired with a long production cycle for the construction of the nuclear power plant at the site of Belene and on a market basis without direct or indirect State participation, without a State guarantee, without a commitment by the State to conclude a long-term contract for the purchase of electricity produced. The analysis should develop a variant for the separation of NEK's assets and liabilities related to the project "NPP "Belene" in a separate commercial capacity and carrying out a follow-up procedure under the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. The proposed draft act shall be entrusted to the Minister of Energy to organise within three months the preparation of that technical economic and legal analysis and presentation of a report to the Council of Ministers within one month of the preparation of the analysis. Such a decision was taken by the Council of Ministers on 15 December 2016. It is in four points: "1." Approves the Minister for Energy's report. 2. The Minister of Energy shall organise within three months the preparation of a technical economic and legal analysis relating to the possibilities of using the equipment acquired with a long production cycle for the construction of a nuclear power plant on the site of Belene. 3. In the analysis referred to in point 2, to develop a variant for the separation of the assets and liabilities of NEK related to the Project "NPP " in a separate commercial company and to conduct a follow-up procedure under the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. 4. Within one month of the preparation of the analysis referred to in point 2, the Minister of Energy shall submit a report to the Council of Ministers. This Decision is dated 15 December 2016. The three-month period will end on 15 March 2017, that is to say, about two months from now. Within one month of the preparation of the report, the Minister must report the technical and legal analysis to the Council of Ministers. In the legal analysis will be included information, professional judgement on what subsequent decisions the National Assembly should cancel or accept with regard to the will of the Council of Ministers for follow-up to the project. In this sense, on the one hand, your draft decision is incomplete because it cancels only one decision of the National Assembly. On the other hand, you are not even a pioneer, so to speak, in this proposal, because the Council of Ministers has already done what you want on the project, i.e. to start some work on the project. From this point of view, according to the opinion of our parliamentary group, your proposal is unacceptable. We must wait for the analysis and report of the Minister to the Council of Ministers. According to the report, the National Assembly will, of course, not in this Chamber, but in its next Chamber, take action that it considers correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u149	- What's the line? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u150	I won't!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u151	Any other MPs?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u152	I won't!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u153	Thanks to my helpers. You must be on duty today to assist in the management's work. From a place in plenary, they say there are no other willing colleagues in the debate. It's closed, it's a vote coming up. I'm inviting the MPs to the House. Project! DECISION repealing the decision of the National Assembly of 29 March 2012 terminating the construction of a nuclear power plant on the site of Belene, promulgated in the State Gazette, issue 28 of 6 April 2012. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Revocation of a decision of the National Assembly of 29 March 2012 on the termination of the construction of a nuclear power plant at the site of Belene. 2. Instructs the Council of Ministers to ensure the implementation of the project for the construction of a nuclear power plant on the site of Belene. Point one is a power plant, point two is a power plant?! "3." Instructs the Minister of Energy to inform the National Assembly every three months of the implementation of point 2. Voting mode. Vote 138 MPs: 50, against 64, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. We're going to the next point in our program: FIRST LOCATION OF THE LECOPROECTION FOR THE COD CHANGE. Importers "Javor Haytov and a group of MPs. There is no report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. On behalf of the importer, we're listening, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, the proposal for a change to the Civil Procedure Code concerns the so-called eligibility procedure before the Supreme Court of Cassation. For fellow non-jurists, I would just like to open a clamp and say that this, of course, concerns only civil cases. Where that possibility is accepted, the case shall be dealt with initially and shall be assessed whether they shall be dealt with in substance. One of the main motives was actually to unload the Supreme Court of Cassation, to reduce the work, so that a greater speed could be achieved in court proceedings. However, the practice speaks differently, namely: before considering a case on the substance again, a Chamber of the Supreme Court of Cassation examines the same case in order to assess whether it is admissible or not admissible. That is, the same case, the same case is dealt with twice. Moreover, the Bulgarian Constitution states that the court proceedings are tri-instantial in our country. However, when the Supreme Court of Cassation considers and does not allow a case to be dealt with in substance, a dispute is practically being circumvented by the so-called tri-instance process and there is no possibility again at an open hearing to examine the case in substance and to give a decision. But there is another important point here, and it is that the examination under the eligibility procedure is carried out in the so-called closed session. And in it, the parties do not actually have the opportunity openly and competitively to present their arguments and, of course, to assess them. I would like to open a clamp and say that this Bill we have submitted more than one year ago and several times to the Legal Commission and with its President, whom I will mention by name, Mr. Kirilov, we have commented and he has practically not objected as the only problem of lack of time delayed the examination of this Bill. I would just like to mention that there is also a Constitutional case No 4 of 2009. In the same case with Decision No 4 of 16 June 2009, there are a number of problems which arise in the application of the Law and which, although not bearing the signs of unconstitutionality, make it very difficult for both citizens who seek protection of their rights and the court who is obliged to apply the Law. This is only a brief Bill, but I think it is important because it is for the benefit of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u155	The debate is open. Are there any MPs who wish to take up the proposed bill? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u156	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor not because my honourable colleague Haytov mentioned me by name, but because I really want to make a statement on this bill, which provides for a serious, substantial decision which will lead to a change in the conviction in the tri-instantial proceedings in relation to civil court proceedings. Indeed, in the Constitution, court proceedings in civil matters are tri-instantial. This rule was partially corrected by amendments in 2009, i.e. the new Civil Procedure Code. And since he acted, the rule and preliminary admissibility proceedings to a cassation appeal have also been applied and specific grounds for eligibility to a cassation appeal have been established. The logic of this legal decision of the then importers and the then legislators was to unload the Supreme Court of the Republic of Bulgaria and to examine such cases, which are of particular importance to the proceedings, whether because of their complexity, whether due to the contradictory application and interpretation of the Law. Mr. Haytov as an importer was absolutely right that this change substantially changed both the behavior of the parties and their expectation. Currently, all parties in civil court proceedings continue to expect and hope to have the possibility of a third instance and for a cassation hearing of the dispute for a third, last, final and from the highest court of the Republic of Bulgaria. In practice, however, the Supreme Court of Cassation had turned into a regional court, but the entire Republic of Bulgaria and looked at all the cases that ended in it. That is what I meant by specifying the effect of unloading the load of the Supreme Court of Cassation as a supreme court. Unfortunately, we have not been able to get to the serious in-depth debate on this Bill and four more concerning substantial amendments to the Civil Procedure Code. On three occasions we had planned, we had started and announced the convening of, I would call it theoretical, but we thought it was a theoretical practical conference to analyze the action of the Civil Procedure Code since it was adopted as a brand new Civil Procedure Code in 2006 until now. Unfortunately, all three times due to the legislative programme, due to the complexity of the political public situation, this conference, which had to be attended by representatives of the senior judges and the institutions concerned, could not be held. I continue to believe that this would have prepared us to make an objective and reasonable decision on these bills, one of which is the bill with importer Mr. Haytov. I will allow myself to say my personal opinion on this matter. I'm totally torn. I am completely divided, as a practicing lawyer, I would very much like to restore the cassation proceedings for all cases or for a large part of the cases, which are more significant. As Chair of the Legal Committee and without the analysis of the Supreme Court of Cassation, I could not clearly support this proposal at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u157	Any lines to Mr. Kirilov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There is a vote to be taken, I invite the Members of Parliament to the plenary. I hereby put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 654-01-1, submitted by Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs on 14 January 2016. They voted 98 MPs: 42, against 3, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. With the vote on this bill, we have concluded the proposals on behalf of the parliamentary groups, made in accordance with art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure. Moving on to next point six: PROJECT FOR A DECISION ON NOVEMBER 6, 2016 NATIONAL REFERENDUM We have adopted a decision to postpone the debate on this point. Next, point seven: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE DELEGATION AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL CODEX - A General Project drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs. It's a second vote. Mr. Kirilov, I expect you to report the proposal to the Legal Committee on the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u158	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention a report on the General Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 653-03-106, adopted on 6 October 2016 at the first vote Draft amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 554-01-145, submitted by Anna Vasileva Alexandrova, Svilen Filipov Ivanov and Danail Dimitrov Kirilov on 28 July 2015 and a draft amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 654-01-84, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Petar Vladislavov Slavov, Philip Stefanov Popov, Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov, Kiril Petrov Tsochev, Mariana Georgieva Todorova, Lachezar Stamenov Nikimov, Yankov and Stanislav Dimitrov Dimitrov on 7 July 2016, prepared on the basis of the procedure. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u159	We vote, fellow Members. 88 MPs voted: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u160	Paragraph 1? a proposal from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov: In Paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 after the word "supplier" is added within the meaning of § 13, point. 1 of the additional provisions of the Consumer Protection Act and its resolution by an arbitration court is not agreed individually. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Kamen Kostadinov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 19 the following amendments and additions are made: In Al. 1 is finally a comma and an argument is added or in which one of the parties is a consumer within the meaning of § 13, item. 1 of the RD of the ZPB and its resolution by an arbitration court is not individually agreed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 1: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1, in the content of the first-vote supplement to para. 1, after the word "spore" is added with interest up to 2000 BGN The Commission does not support the proposal. 1, and c. 2 proposals are withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 19 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "or a dispute in which one of the parties is a consumer' are deleted. 2. A new para is being created. 2: supposed by an arbitration tribunal disputes in which one of the parties is a consumer in the following sectors of the economy: 1. the energy sector, electricity, heat and natural gas; 2. water supply and sewerage services; 3. electronic communications and postal services; 4. financial services related to the provision of consumer credit, distance financial services, additional social security, insurance activities. 3. The creation of para. 3: Other than the cases referred to in para. 2 The dispute may be ordered to be settled by an arbitration tribunal where one party is a consumer and the decision by that court has been expressly negotiated between the parties after the dispute has taken place. 4. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 4. The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposal of the MP Yavor Haytov, which is absolutely identical with the proposal I read with the importer Anna Alexandrova. The Commission also does not support the similar proposal of colleague Yavor Haytov. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and Anna Alexandrova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure in its version until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 1 shall be added at the end of a dispute in which one of the parties is a consumer in the sense of § 13, item 13. 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Consumer Protection Act
ParlaMint-BG_2017-01-11.u161	Are there any statements under § 1? There is, but we do not have the minimum time of 5 minutes, which I am obliged to provide to a Member of Parliament who is speaking for a second vote, which is why we will conclude the plenary session today. Tomorrow we continue the debate on § 1, which has been opened. I'm shutting down the plenary day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
