ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to include the following additional points in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly: Release of the Governor of the National Insurance Institute. There is a resignation from Biser Petkov, Governor of the National Insurance Institute, with yesterday's date, 4 May 2017, which I propose to be point two for today. Abort the powers of Members of the National Assembly. There are resignations submitted by MPs: Alexander Manolev, Zhecho Stankov, Stoyan Passev, Nedyalko Slavov, Rumyana Bachvarova and Stanislav Dechev Please vote. Vote 181 MPs: for 179, not against, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted. We move on to item one of the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON THE REQUEST OF THE MAJOR PROCURER OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA TO GIVE A RESPONSIBILITY AND RESTRUCTURING (PRETATION) OF A PUNISHED RESTRUCTURING AGAINST VESELIN ENTIRES, A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE IN FOURTHRIDES AND FOURTH PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u2	Mr. Glauchev, please come in for a presentation of the motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. My fellow Members, I will inform you of the reasons why I have proposed the establishment of such a Commission. On April 27, 2017 at the National Assembly in Varna, Bulgaria. No 727-00-2 received a request from the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov to give permission for the arousal and conduct (continuation) of prosecution against the MP Veselin Naydenov Mareshki. The same was done in connection with the legal proceedings NAHD No 1126/2015 according to the description of the District Court of Varna, for crimes committed under art. 131, para. 1, t. 1 in relation to art. 130, para. 2 of the Penal Code and under art. 213a, para. 3, p. 2 in relation to para. 2, p. 3, proposal two and proposal three and so on. 4 in connection with para. 1 of the Penal Code, according to the specific part of the request. On 27 April 2017, the President of the National Assembly notified the MP Veselin Mareshki of the request and the opportunity to get acquainted with it and the attached materials. Until now, the people's representative Veselin Mareshki has not deposited written consent to arousal and conduct (continuation) of prosecution against him at the request. The practice of the National Assembly in such cases is to establish a temporary committee to examine whether there is sufficient evidence of committed crimes of a general nature on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. This is necessary in the light of the provisions of art. 70, para. 1 of the Constitution and Article 1 of the Constitution. 138, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the National Assembly shall rule on the requests. I hereby submit a draft decision establishing a Temporary Commission to assist the National Assembly in decision-making on this issue. My fellow Members, as I have also informed you of the reasons, there are three hypotheses to allow the request. One is the MP himself to agree to waive his immunity, which has not happened so far. The other two options are as follows: 48 Members of Parliament to propose the establishment of a temporary committee or to be proposed by the President of the National Assembly. I take advantage of the third hypothesis and propose the establishment of such a committee. This is consistent with previous parliamentary practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u4	Thank you, dear Mr. Glauchev. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u5	Madam President, honourable Members! With regard to the request for the establishment of a Temporary Committee on the issue put by the President of the National Assembly, our party "Volja" we ask the following questions and requests to this Commission. First of all, a criminal case of general character 1126 from 2015 on the description of the District Court of Varna, which is currently on trial at the Sofia City Court. Secondly, getting acquainted with the evidence in the case, assessment and opinion are there sufficient data and evidence of crimes committed by Veselin Mareshki. Next, taking an opinion from the appointed Committee on Evidence in the case and an opinion whether the waiver of the immunity of the Vice-President of the National Assembly Veselin Mareshki is necessary. Next, a hearing of all the members of the Commission on the questions raised and their opinion. Finally, disclosure of this investigation to the public before the whole society, the media and the entire Bulgarian people about the circumstances of the accusations against Mr. Mareshki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u6	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put it to the vote: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the establishment of a Temporary Commission on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to give permission for the arousal and conduct (continuation) of criminal proceedings against Veselin Naydenov Mareshki, MP in Forty-fourth National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. Art. 1 and 3 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 in connection with Art. 138, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He established a Temporary Commission with the task of examining whether there was sufficient evidence of committed crimes of a general nature on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria with. No 727-00-2 of 27 April 2017 for granting permission to excite and conduct (continue) prosecution against the People's Representative Veselin Naydenov Mareshki. 2. The Commission shall submit a report on its activities containing an opinion and a draft decision on the request made by the Prosecutor General. We are voting on the text so far. I will then propose the number of members of the Commission, the name composition and the duration of the vote. Please vote. Vote 188 MPs: 187, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: "3." The Commission shall be composed of 10 Members of the National Assembly of two Members of each Parliamentary Group. I'm asking for a roll call. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Dear colleagues, we propose as members of the Commission of the Political Party GERB: Dimitar Boychev Petrov and Hristo Georgiev Gajev as members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u8	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. From the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u9	We offer: Mr. Pencho Milkov and Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u10	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. From the United Patriarchs? Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u11	Madam President, on behalf of the United Patriarch, we offer: Christian Mitev and Alexander Siddy. By proposing Christian Mitev as President of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u12	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group, I propose: the MPs Hayri Sadakov and Tanner Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u14	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. And from the political party, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u15	Honourable colleagues, from the Political Party Volja, as members of the Commission, we propose: Simeon Naydenov and Anton Donchev. For Chairman "Simeon Naydenov."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u16	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. My fellow Members, I am putting, firstly, to the vote the number of the Commission: to consist of 10 Members of Parliament of the House of Members of two Members of each Parliamentary Group. Please vote. Vote 186 MPs: 185, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the name composition, as communicated by the representatives of the different parliamentary groups. Please vote. Vote 188 MPs: 187 against 1, no abstentions. Two proposals have been made for the President of the Commission by the "United patriots" for Hristian Mitev, and by the party "Volja" for Simeon Naydenov. We are voting on the first proposal of Mr. Christian Mitev of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs. Please vote. They voted 129 MPs: 100 against 19, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. I will also put to the vote the second proposal to Mr. Simeon Naydenov of the Parliamentary Group. Please vote. They voted 115 MPs: 13, against 17, abstention 85. The offer is not accepted. President of the Commission will be Mr. Christian Mitev. We are going to vote on the committee's time of action: The Commission shall be elected for a period of seven days. Please vote. Vote 185 MPs: 183, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. And now we are going to vote in full. I put to a full vote a decision to set up a temporary commission on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to give permission for the arousal and conduct (continuation) of prosecution against Veselin Naydenov Mareshki. Vote 184 MPs: 184, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u17	Coming through. to the next item on the agenda: EMPLOYMENT OF THE MANAGEMENT OF THE NATIONAL ASSISTANT INSTITUTE. She resigned from the manager of the NSI: "Dear Mr. Chairman, because of my election as Minister of Labour and Social Policy, I ask on the basis of art. 84, p. 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly will decide on my release as governor of the National Insurance Institute. I offer you the following official draft decision: Project! DECISION on the release of the Governor of the National Insurance Institute The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37, para. 4 of the Social Security Code relating to resignation before the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Bisser Hristov Petkov as Governor of the National Insurance Institute. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. Please vote on the Project. Vote 188 MPs: 185, no objection, abstention 3. Resignation accepted. Third item on our agenda: TERMINATION OF REPRESENTATIVES OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES. First, let me read a message: By Decision No 4723 of 27 April 2017, the Central Election Commission announced Mr Durhan Mehmed Mustafa as elected MP from the Second Election Region of Burgas, from the list of the Political Party. With an application to the President of the National Assembly, Ic. No 754-00-15 of 3 May 2017, Mr Durhan Mustafa stated his refusal to take office and to take an oath as a Member of the National Assembly. By letter dated 4 May 2017, the President of the National Assembly submitted the application to the Central Election Commission with a view to taking the necessary action in accordance with its competence. Application by Aleksandar Dimitrov Manolev "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I wish to be terminated my credentials as a Member of the National Assembly with a decision of the National Assembly. I offer you the following official draft decision: Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts the authority of Alexander Dimitrov Manolev as MP from the First Election Region of Blagoevgrad. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the project I just presented to you. Vote 187 MPs: 180 against 2, abstention 5. Alexander Manolev's mandate as MP has been terminated. The next application is from Zhecho Donchev Stankov, MP from the Second Election Region Burgas: "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I wish to be terminated my credentials as a Member of the National Assembly with a decision of the National Assembly. In this regard, I propose to you the following official draft decision: Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Resumes the authority of Zhecho Donchev Stankov as MP from the Second Election Region of Burgas. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I'm voting on the project I just presented to you. Vote 183 MPs: for 178, against 1, abstention 4. The mandate as the MP of Zhecho Stankov has been terminated. The next application is from Stoyan Hristov Pasev, Member of the National Assembly from the Third Election Region of Varna: "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I wish to be terminated my credentials as a Member of the National Assembly with a decision of the National Assembly. Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends Stoyan Hristov Pasev's authority as MP from the Third Election Region of Varna. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues! I'm not gonna thank you for working with me. However, it is only right for the previous two, which we voted before me, for the Quaestors to take them out of the Chamber, as they are no longer MPs. [[Laughter]] That's the order of the joke. Thank you all for working with me, even though it was only a month. It is the first time for me to actually be a Member of the National Assembly, which is why I am speaking. [[Laughter]] Thank you. Good job! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u19	Thank you, Mr. Passev. Are there lines? Any other speeches? I won't. I'm voting on the draft decision. Please vote. Vote 171 MPs: 150, against 10, abstention 11. Stoyan Passev's mandate as MP has been terminated. We have your already known statement, only by Nedyalko Zhivkov Slavov "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I wish to be terminated my credentials as a Member of the National Assembly with a decision of the National Assembly. In connection with his volition, I suggest to you: Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED He suspended Nedyalko Zhivkov Slavov's authority as a MP from the Twenty-Second Election Region. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before you terminate my powers as a Member of Parliament, I would like to address all of you on the left, colleagues on the right, let us remember two things every day of our work: first, the oath we have taken to work in the name of the people and the inscription that is at the official entrance of the National Assembly. I wish you a successful and fruitful job! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u21	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Any lines, any other statements? I won't. I'm voting on the draft decision. Please vote. Vote 174 MPs: 150 against 8, abstention 16. Nedyalko Slavov's powers as MP have been suspended. Application by Rumyana Gencheva Bachvarova MP from the twenty-fiveth election district Sofia: "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I wish to be terminated my credentials as MP with a decision of the National Assembly. And the draft decision to terminate the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly: Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of the Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the mandate of Rumyana Gencheva Bachvarova as a MP from the twenty-fifth election district of Sofia. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I am closing the debate and voting on the draft decision. Please vote. Vote 170 MPs: 158 against 9, abstention 3. The mandate of Rumyana Gencheva Bachvarova as MP has been terminated. Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u22	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members! Would you please inform us how many more such decisions we have to make, because, in harsh calculations, GERB has already lost its majority in parliament. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u23	You beat me to it. I was going to say that what I'm about to read to you is the last. As for the majority, you will now see that it is not lost. [[Laughter]] Application by Stanislav Naskov Dechev, MP in the Twenty-Nineth Election Region, Haskovo. "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I wish to be terminated my credentials as a Member of the National Assembly with a decision of the National Assembly. Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of the Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts the authority of Stanislav Naskov Dechev as MP from the twenty-nineth election district of Haskovo. Statements? I won't. I'm voting on the draft decision. Please vote. Vote 171 MPs: 161, against 3, abstention 7. The mandate of Stanislav Dechev as MP has been terminated. We have exhausted the agenda for today, which is why I am closing the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-05.u24	Next regular meeting on 10 May at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
