ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u1	I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly the following additional item:... Second vote of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Road Traffic, importers: Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs, on 4 October 2017, adopted at the first vote on 26 October 2017, and I propose that it become so. Nine in the program. Previously on "T." 9 The second vote of the Draft Law amending the Law on Public Libraries is renumbered accordingly. Please vote. They voted 195 MPs: 116, against 5, abstention 74. The motion is accepted. Communication: honourable Members, at the beginning of yesterday's plenary session, I informed you that on 11 December 2017, by letter from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, a Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union was adopted by Decision No 753 of the Council of Ministers of 2017. The programme is provided by letter to all Standing Committees and the Members of their Electronic Posts. In this regard, I inform you that, during the plenary session tomorrow, 5 of the Decision to adopt a position of the National Assembly on the draft Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union 1 January " 30 June 2018," adopted by the National Assembly on 1 December 2017, the Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018, Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova will present to you the adopted Programme. Come in for a statement, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Bulgaria's accession to the Schengen area is among the main priorities of the Bulgarian foreign policy and of strategic importance both for Bulgaria and the European Union as a whole. Such a priority, I believe, is that all political forces have recorded in our election platforms and we have all defended it. Only that the power of BSP is precisely in its sequence [[noise, lines, calls from GERB]] and when a national priority was to be defended, we did not run away from it, while the Political Party GERB did the opposite. Yesterday we proposed to the Bulgarian Parliament to come up with a joint declaration and all of us to stand behind our MEPs in their battle for a huge injustice. I would like to read you the declaration that we should have accepted: The National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria: - firstly, welcomes the inclusion of the issue of enlargement and strengthening of the Schengen area on the agenda of the plenary sitting of the European Parliament in Strasbourg on 13 December 2017 We are all for, but GERB are against such a point. [[Noise and lines.]] Second, he highly appreciates the consistent support of the main political groups in the European Parliament for the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to Schengen, as well as the joint efforts of the Bulgarian Members of the European Parliament. All are for, but GERB are against this point. The third point is that Bulgaria's full Schengen membership and the implementation of the whole instrument of Schengen legislation will allow our country to contribute fully to the security of the European Union and its citizens. We're all in favour, but GERB is against it. - Fourth, confirms once again that Bulgaria has fully implemented the Schengen acquis, which, under the Treaty on its accession and the existing legal framework of the European Union, is the only precondition for accession to the Schengen area; - Fifth, considers the continuing delay of Bulgaria's accession to Schengen as a precedent that undermines the trust and solidarity between the Member States and devalues the commitments made at the highest level. GERB again opposes such a finding. scuses all Member States to support the enlargement of the Schengen area, so that the adoption of the Council's unanimous decision on the accession of Bulgaria to Schengen is achieved without further delay. I believe that this should unite us and we are all for, alas, GERB are against. The Bulgarian government calls on the Bulgarian government to continue to work actively to provide support for our country's accession to the Schengen area and expresses its willingness to continue to support the efforts of the responsible Bulgarian institutions in this regard. The adoption of this declaration by the National Assembly could be a strong sign of the need for unification and synergies at all levels for Bulgaria to take its place as an equal member of the European Union. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this declaration had to unite all political forces, from GERB escaped. They ran away because GERB showed...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u3	Mr. Stoynev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u4	...that they never defended national interest, and there was a political servitude of outside forces...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u5	Mr. Stoynev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u6	Let me finish, because this is outrageous. Yesterday there was a debate in the European Parliament and all the political forces...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u7	Mr. Stoynev, control your emotions! Mr. Stoynev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u8	All the political forces supported this debate, apart from the European reformers and conservatives, and the Europe of Freedom and Democracy (Europe of Freedom and Democracy) - a very right party, but, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, already, as the masks fell, there is also a political party GERB, which joins precisely these parties for failure to support Bulgaria's Schengen membership. [[GERB lines.]] And that's because someone outside has changed your priorities again. You have proved once again that you cannot stand for a national priority as BSP stood for it. [[Radio, laughter from GERB.]] Because the difference between you and me is that there's nothing to scare us. There is no external force to change our attitude towards Bulgarian citizens, towards the Bulgarian national priorities, while you were scared. And so it will be the entire Presidency that awaits us. It will be turned to the political servantship, to the servantship of the European Union, because you cannot stand side by side in the most elementary thing when it comes to a European and Bulgarian national cause.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u9	And you want a referendum on staying in the European Union, don't you? Didn't you want a referendum on the European Union?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u10	The difference is that you cannot defend a Bulgarian national cause unless someone outside tells you! Is that the truth, or perhaps you don't want to be in the Schengen area?! Because yesterday, as information came out, DGBOP arrested a municipal councilman and his son in human trafficking in Svilengrad. That's the difference between you and us. [[Laughter, loud noise, lines and calls.]] Because with you everything is clear what is going on with you, the only thing that keeps you in power is precisely to seize this resource, which is now the European funds, whether it be public funds, because we will soon have a debate on the President's veto. We're talking about nearly 20 million. lv. Yesterday you gave away 600 million. lv. in the dark, and here for the health of Bulgarian citizens, you de facto will most likely reject this veto. That's the difference between you and us! But, again, it is important for us national money, for us it is important for the national cause, for us it is important, when it comes to the future of the nation, that we be side by side, and not as you are, only when someone outside tells you, then that you defend your European cause. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u11	Take it easy! Ladies and gentlemen, about the declaration made by Mr. Stoynev yesterday to the Presidential Council, it was decided that the declaration should be given to the parliamentary groups in order to get acquainted with this declaration. I, as Chairman of the Assembly, under art. 88, para. 3 I have allocated it to the Committee on Foreign Policy, to the Committee on Internal Policy, so that it can be discussed under the Rules of Procedure. [[Replyings and calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Since you didn't wait to hear what the other chairmen of the parliamentary groups think about the declaration... [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Stoinev was at this meeting and he is very well aware, but the facts are being distorted at the moment from the parliamentary stand. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, in the manner of conduct. [[Noise, lines:............................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u12	You can't always speak quietly, ladies and gentlemen, because you don't always hear, even when we call you, and when the people call you, so you'll excuse me if I'm a little more emotional.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u13	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Ermenkov! To me!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u14	Thank you, Madam President, but keep your men calm so I can take the procedure. Madam President, when there is a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group, good upbringing requires it to be heard. Perhaps the emotions of those who feel affected should be expressed in the way that they believe it is culturally... by fucking on the table. When they feel affected that they have not defended national interest, which is the truth, of course, to shout and whistle, but does not give you the right to comment on this declaration in any form, even as a reply, even as a statement, even as President of the National Assembly. The only thing you could possibly do is to have a return declaration on behalf of the GERB party with which to respond to our declaration. You are overstepping your rights, Madam President, so please follow the regulations very much. Let us not go any further, made a path of movement by the Presidents of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u15	Mr. Ermenkov, I now have an opportunity in two minutes to answer your question. I did not make a counterclaim, but I told what happened at the Chairmanial Council very correctly. This is what colleagues who participated can confirm. We continue with the next item on the agenda: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR THE BUDGET OF NATIONAL HEALTH AND HEALTH CACUS FOR 2018 as adopted by the People's REST OF 29 NOVEMBER 2017, RETURNED FOR NEW DISCLOSURE WITH AS FOLLOWS: No 250 OF 8 DECEMBER 2017 OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF TOGETHER 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. The President of the Budget and Finance Committee will present the report to us. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I ask for a procedure to allow Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund and Deputy Minister of Health, and Mr. Kamen Plotchev, Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u17	Please vote on the procedure. Vote 175 MPs: 168 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u18	♪ I can't believe on Decree No 250 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 11 December 2017, on the return for a new discussion of the Act on the Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018, adopted by the National Assembly on 29 November 2017, and the reasons for the decree At its meeting held on 12 December 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed Decree No 250 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Deputy Minister of Health and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF, and Prof. Dr. Kamen Plochev, Governor of NHIF. The President of the Commission, Menda Stoyanova, reports on the statement and the reasons for it. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The President returns to the National Assembly the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018, challenging § 6 of the Transitional and Final Provisions. The President points out that the adopted § 6 of the Transitional and Final Provisions raises concerns that the rights of all health insured persons will not be guaranteed. [[Noise and lines.]] It established the rule that in 2018, the NHIF should not pay for medicinal products with a new international non-proprietary name, for which an application for inclusion in the positive drug list has been submitted, as well as for those included in the positive drug list that are subject to payment for the first time in 2018. [[Noise and lines.]] The President notes that the moratorium under § 6 also runs counter to a number of international acts. § 6 establishes a different treatment for insured persons in 2018, which is not justified by another constitutionally guaranteed value and is not proportionate to the objective pursued, the Constitution declares equality of citizens before the law as a principle and not every objective can be a valid basis for limiting rights. The limitation of the possibility of paying for treatment with innovative medicines and those included in the positive list, which is to be paid for the first time in 2018, is formal and is not subject to another constitutionally guaranteed value, but is bound only by the time of application of the ban. [[Noise and lines.]] The reasons in support of the NHIF Budget Act for 2018 were presented by Mrs. Zheny Nacheva. It is undisputed that the rights of citizens for accessible medical care through health insurance and free use of medical care are fundamental constitutional rights and are inalienable under the provision of art. 57, para. 1 of the Constitution. However, as the Constitutional Court has also accepted in the reasons of Decision No 8 of 1998 on Constitutional Case No 3/1998, the constitutional provision of art. 52, para. 1 It is not directly applicable and it indicates that it will apply under conditions and arrangements laid down by law. The main legal means for realization of the rights of citizens for accessible medical care have found their rules in separate laws issued on the basis of the delegation of art. 52, para. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. From the foregoing, the Constitution does not define the terms and conditions under which the right of health insurance arises, and there is no limit listing of the sources from which the necessary means will be provided for the payment of medical care, as well as the forms by which the payment will be made. [[Noise and lines.]] In this sense, the rights of citizens under art. 52, para. 1 of the Constitution can be implemented only within the framework of the compulsory health insurance system, which, in turn,...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u19	Colleagues, please, it's very noisy in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u20	It only functions within the framework of the budget formed for this purpose. If the opposite hypothesis of non-compliance of the prices and volumes paid by the NHIF with the framework of the budget of this solidarity insurance system is considered, it is possible that the financial resources of the NHIF may be exhausted before the end of the year, which in turn would lead to a limitation of the rights of the citizens under Art. 52, para. 1 of the Constitution. Within the current year, a number of legislative changes have taken place and concrete steps are taken to strengthen the system with measures that lead to better control over the costs and management of the financial resources of the NHIF, to optimise the functioning and improvement of the health system. The analysis of the dynamics of health and health-demographic indicators for the state of the population, reflected in a number of strategic documents, clearly shows that the sustainable increase in health funds is not accompanied by a corresponding improvement in the health performance of citizens. Increasing efficiency could lead to significantly better results and compensate for the need for a substantial increase in costs. For this purpose, it is necessary to conduct a complex of measures in the spending part of the budget of the NHIF providing a new design of planning, negotiation, purchase and delivery of health services and goods, as well as payment systems to promote efficiency, efficiency and quality. The consistent use of these approaches in the coming years will undoubtedly lead to more efficient management of health expenditure. [[Noise and lines.]] The total amount of the financial contributions from the EFTA States to the general budget of the Union for the financial year 2018 amounts to EUR 4 712 million. BGN, with an estimated growth of 485.2 million compared to 2017. lv. In this way there will be security, stability and predictability in the health insurance system. The total cost of the NHIF's budget for 2018 is 3 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, providing for an additional right of expenditure in 2018 against the Law for 2017 amounting to 406,6 million. lv. additionally. In 2018, the NHIF will ensure the payment of medicinal products for the home treatment of 282 diseases and for the treatment of 585 cancer and haematological diseases, such as the list of medicinal products paid in full or in part by the NHIF, for these diseases includes: 1. Medicinal products.. 1718 units paid in full or in part by the NHIF for home treatment and over 123 oncology treatments paid in over 2457 pharmacies having a contract with the NHIF. The number of patients for 2018 who are scheduled to address the pharmacies network for receiving these medicinal products, paid in full or in part by the NHIF for home treatment, is around 1.6 million. Souls. 2. Oncology medicinal products - 450 units administered in hospital medical care - only in the hospital. [[Noise and lines.]] In 2018, the payment for over 33 thousand health-insured persons of medicinal products intended for the treatment of malignancy under hospital medical care was estimated, which the NHIF pays outside the value of the medical services provided. A number of expenditures on clinical Madam President, the doctors must know this, but the House includes 240 deputies who are not doctors. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u21	That's right, Mrs. Stoyanova. Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u22	.. The NHIF pays outside the value of the medical services provided. A number of expenditure on clinical pathways, as already indicated, are also for the treatment of cancer. I stress that 74% of the total cost of NHIF for 2017 for the treatment of cancer patients is for medicinal products with expensive molecules and targeted therapy. It should be noted again that the planned cost of oncology treatment in hospital medical care is estimated to be around 300 million. lv. On an annual basis, which is more than the cost of all primary medical care, which amounts to 207 million. BGN, and all specialized medical assistance of 222 million. lv. The dynamics in the entry and payment of innovative medicinal products have no analogue in other health insurance payments, where the maximum increase in costs reaches only about 6%. The paces for innovative medicines and hospital activities in times ahead of other health insurance activities. A number of examples can be given to leading manufacturers of medicinal products, which increase their revenues in just one year, from 1 to more than 10 million. lv. the company's rate of growth in NHIF revenues, which are not even reported by leading multi-profile hospitals, where there are hospitalizations of thousands of patients on over 300 clinical pathways. In the last 4 years, 25 new molecules with 37 medicinal products have been introduced into oncology, which the NHIF is paying for as weirdly, colleagues, notice, in 2018 only the demands become 32. Twenty-five in four years, 32 in 2018! This increase is significant. The number of clinical studies in the country also increased, which provided patients with access to the latest therapeutic alternatives in oncology and oncohematology. The effects of the newly accepted innovative medicines prior to 2018 are ahead of costs in relation to other products and activities. What do the data show? Very interesting data! This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 5 new international non-proprietary names. In 2017, the cost of these 5 is 8 million. 807 thousand. lv. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 8 new international For them, the costs in 2017, note, for these 5 only, are 53 million. 141,000. lv. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with points (a) and (b) of Article 21 (2) of the Financial Regulation. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the 175,000. lv. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 7 new international non-proprietary names for 10 million $800,000. lv. 2018 we have requests for a contract with the Cashier for 32 new international non-proprietary names of estimated value of 39 million. lv. for 2018. Here it should be clear that of these 32 new molecules only five are for diseases of 4 for which there is no reimbursement therapy so far. The first two of these four are rare diseases and are not included in the list of diseases for which the NHIF is responsible for 23 patients are suitable for treatment. The other two new molecules are for 1,500 patients. Here it is very important to note that these patients will be included in treatment programmes with new molecules funded by the manufacturers of medicinal products themselves. There has been such a practice so far, and it will be continued and expanded by the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u23	Where is this program scheduled? There's no such thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u24	A lot of this is also very interesting from these molecules do not appear in the Bulgarian pharmacotherapeutic guides, i.e. there is no guide on how to prescribe these medicines, in what doses and within what deadlines.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u25	The patients are guilty that they won't?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u26	These pharmacotherapeutic guidelines determine the treatment algorithm in patients and have a bearing on pay and inclusion in the positive list. All the other 27 molecules are for diseases for which the National Health Insurance Fund pays the treatment entirely and there is an appropriate alternative for this treatment. These are molecules...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u27	Is that a statement? What's that? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u28	Madam President, please make a remark to the front-row seat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u29	Mrs. Stoyanova, I'm making remarks, but nobody seems to be listening. Please, guys! You faster, Mrs. Stoyanova, because...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u30	Madam President, this report is important! This is the president's veto, and I want my colleagues to hear the numbers. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u31	Please, guys! Continue, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u32	All the other 27 molecules that are required to be included in the positive list are for diseases for which the Casa is currently paying for the treatment entirely and has appropriate treatment. These are rheumatoid arthritis molecules, viral hepatitis C, colitis and so on. Patients with these diseases are also being treated at the moment, with a large number of medicinal products being paid for by the National Health Insurance Fund as a therapeutic alternative with high efficacy biologic products, immunochemotherapy and target molecules in oncology and oncohematology. In the last three years, Bulgaria has received a recommendation from the Council of the European Union in the field of health, which has been focusing invariably on the efficiency of the costs of the system. In the course of the Presidency of Bulgaria one of our priorities is precisely in the direction of drug policy, finding a balance and European perspective between innovative and generic products, and our ambitions are to give a forum for impartial and transparent discussions on these issues at European level. These measures will also find their legislative proposals by the Council of Ministers. After the end of the debates and the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly that the Act on the Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018 be read again. The opinion was adopted by 12 votes for the National Health Insurance Fund, 6 votes against the National Assembly and 1 vote abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. I'm opening the debate. Speeches, please come in, Professor. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I had a completely different thesis for my speech, but, unfortunately, the report that Mrs. Menda Stoyanova read made me, as a former chairman, until six months ago, of the Commission for Evaluation of High-tech Treatments at the Ministry of Health, a member of the Committee on Rare Diseases, a Member of the Committee for Treatment Abroad and a National Hematology Consultant, to tell you, Mrs. Stoyanova, a few things in response to these highly interesting data that you have provided here. With this and I will start, and then I will try from an expert's point of view to urge you to reconsider all of this, even more against the backdrop of the 700 million that were distributed yesterday. We're going to talk about a much smaller number here. First of all, I would like to share with you, Mrs. Stoyanova, Chairman of the Budget Committee, that the figures you have exported are absolutely logical against the backdrop of the revolution in the world of clinical medicine, which has been realized over the last fifteen or twenty years. There is nothing surprising that more than 30 million per year increases the cost of new molecules, as under the control of modern clinical medicine more and more diseases that were life-threatening only 15 years ago. In this sense, this is not interesting, but commendable. This is a success of humanity, and luckily Bulgaria has so far made efforts with all governments, with all the difficulties it has had over the past 30 years, to enable Bulgarian patients to have access. I have to tell you that this access is quite wide up to now, and in no case should it be now, in this perhaps unsuccessful way, to call it, not in another word, a way to create tension in society. Why? Firstly, it is a volume of funds, which represents no more, and to calculate them with discounts, without discounts, whether it is 25, whether it is 38 million, whether it is between 2,5% and 4% of the costs of medicines provided for in the new budget 2018. Secondly, I would like to say to all those who do not understand clinical medicine that the notion of alternatives is very relative in medical medicine and especially in oncology. When it comes to a certain stage of the patient's evolution, there is very often no alternative. I do not wish any of you to stand before this alternative to be forced to lead to hunger, and not to be able to access a new drug that gives it the theoretical, of course, but human opportunity. This was never denied to the Bulgarian patients to use this opportunity to protect their lives and to ease the fate of themselves and their family. Thirdly, if we accept this hypothesis and do this, as colleagues say on the right, a temporary barrier, what awaits us in 2019? Even more molecules of medicine will not stop developing. So how are we going to look for the alternative to which one of them gets in? As an oncologist and an oncohematologist, I want to tell you that molecules that have not been innovative for a long time are not yet on the Bulgarian market, but let us not go into these details. I listened carefully to the media debates this morning, so I want us not to blow up the hall, because it is something that is extremely painful for the Bulgarian citizen. It's about his health! In order not to be very talkative and leave room for debate, but a professional, college debate is about the health of patients, in these pre-Christmas days I would like to call you: Christmas is coming. People are looking, staring into the future. Let's not put the sin of the soul to deprive them of the possibility of this not saying that this is reality, for 30 years I have been working in this specialty and I know how hard it is when you face such a problem. Let's give them this sip in these pre-Christmas days, this opportunity, this faith and find the way to find, as colleagues have mentioned, the fiscal balance, what should I call it? I'm not an economist. Let's give them this opportunity. Thank you, Madam President. [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u35	Thank you, Professor. Mikhailov. - What's the line? I won't. The first procedure, after that statement, was stated by Dr. Jeffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, on the balcony are Lyubomirova and Detelina Banakieva, representatives of the patients we are currently discussing in connection with the veto imposed. I am making a procedure for them to be admitted to this House because this concerns them and the people they represent who are facing this difficult and complex problem. Please allow them into the courtroom.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u37	Mr. Popov, your procedure is inadmissible. The guests are on the balcony, they have the opportunity to trace the debate. Here you are, Dr. Jaffer, for your statement. [[Noise, lines, shouts by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u38	Put it to the vote. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u39	I'm voting on the procedure Mr. Popov did. [[Noise, lines. MPs from GERB and OP enter the Chamber.]] Please, voting mode. They voted 195 MPs: 83 against 37, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Despite the efficiency of the government and their speed to prevent them from entering the Chamber...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u41	Tell me the procedure, Mr. Popov. What's your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u42	...representations of these patients... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Some of my fellow Members have failed to vote, and in this regard, I am doing a re-voting procedure. Please, at least let these people in here. It's obvious you're going to give them these drugs, at least let them in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u43	Mr. Popov, I'll take your word for it! [[Replications between the MPs Danail Kirilov and Dragomir Stoinev.]] Colleagues, please calm down! Mr. Stoynev, please! The ladies are admitted to the hall. They are on the balcony and can hear first person debate on this point. It's a rethink mode. They voted 195 MPs: 85, against 33, abstentioned 77. The offer is not accepted. Procedure in the manner of conducting Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u44	Mrs. Chairman! I believe you've admitted an unacceptable procedure. There is no way to participate in the debate representatives of an unknown patient organization for us because this was not announced by the applicant of this desire. The Health Insurance and Health Act clearly regulates the nationally represented patient organisations. They shall have the right to participate in the meetings of the Committee on Health and to give opinions on all bills. They participate in the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund. Colleagues from the opposition, attempts to manipulate patients, exploit their fears will not lead to anything positive for you. [[(Noise, lines and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.) DPS lines.)]] Ma'am, please calm your passions! Let us be rational, let us look for good solutions, because they are in the interest of Bulgarian patients. Otherwise, there must be potential patients in the room, and each of us can speak in favor of one therapy or another. Balance is important and this is what we are looking for today in the sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u45	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Dr. Jaffer, come in for a statement. I call on this House to have a good professional debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u46	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Minister! We are increasingly fond of calls for a non-party consensus and for a good debate, but we are protesting that fiscal arguments should be used primarily in principle. I declare that we will support the President's veto and do so for several reasons. First of all, because it is in line with our proposal, which we made at second reading under the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund, the only solution and proposal to drop § 6. Secondly, we will support this veto because we are pleading for unconstitutionality of the text. The motives in the president's veto state very clearly why we have reason to do so. We will support the veto because of this, because we believe that a priori is a wrong decision. It is a recognition of helplessness, recognition of institutions and administration that it cannot cope with the trend of drug funds. However, this is not a problem of patients, it is a problem of administration, of institutions, dear Minister! Today, when we say, unknown why it also entered the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, that five new molecules entered, and last year there were nine, the next would be ten, yes, these molecules and these funds would become more and more. There is no way to stop the rise of high technology, of medical science, Mrs. Stoyanova. No matter what decisions we make, these technologies will go forward. There is no way with a moratorium to stop the development of these processes and patients will want the most modern treatment, the best for them. Today, when the world is talking about personalized medicine, we are trying with a moratorium to postpone so we can spend money on these new technologies and new molecules. That is why we believe that modern therapeutic achievements and medical standards are a new, higher therapeutic opportunity, and not a challenge to the fissure. Fisk and the people who have to deal with these challenges must propose solutions, but this solution is not such a solution. There are many other options. Because we have been called for a professional debate, let us mention some of them, which have not exhausted their mechanisms to keep up costs, if they, in your opinion, are improperly growing. Firstly, objectivity in the work of the Commission for the assessment of health technologies, as well as of the Commission for prices and reimbursement. Payment for molecules should not continue, but a therapeutic result should be sought. This is an undisputed goal to be pursued. Secondly, the introduction of the mandatory nature of the so-called "gatelines".. the so-called "pharmacotherapeutic."........................................................................................... That has to be a rule. Thirdly, flexible negotiation of prices and discounts for medicines, including sanctions for pharmaceutical companies when they exceed a certain level. For hospitals you have imposed limits.. you do not pay subliminal activity because you say that it simply does not exist for you. Here is where the company can be sanctioned if it exceeds the volume it needs to cover this year and this is very simple. Let them take the sanctions, but not the patients. In fourth place, analysis of the structure of payments for medicines in medical institutions, in specialties, in diagnoses. There will be seen which are the units they spend, perhaps illegal. Fifth place, the keyword............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In sixth place, the legendary Single Information System, an electronic health card, an electronic recipe so that you can track what is happening not only with the patient's path, but also with expensive therapies and medications that cover these therapies. Ladies and gentlemen, it sounds sincere during the second reading that the imposition of this moratorium is actually only an attempt to buy time because the state and the institutions do not know what to do to contain these costs and the increase in the cost of medicines in Bulgaria. The contribution was definitely given today by making a new design of planning. I don't know what design you're going to do, but really, as one colleague said, this looks not like a new design of planning, but a new design of frustration. That is why we should all be aware that these fiscal parameters that we are talking about lead to personal, human tragedies. Every patient has the right to ask for the best treatment for themselves and for their loved ones. I believe that reason will prevail, but no matter what the outcome of this vote today, in relation to this veto of the President, we believe that the text is unconstitutional because the Constitution says that everyone has equal access to treatment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u47	Thank you, dear Dr. Jaffer. - What's the line? I can't see. Assoc. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u48	Dear representatives of patient organizations, today we discuss your hope for life! Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Yesterday, when we adopted this item on the agenda, I thought we were going to discuss a procedure that vetoed the President. Today, when I was coming to the National Assembly building and I was stopped by the protesters who were sick, they said: "In you is our hope! We want a few more days of life, we want the hope that we can live! I realized that today the main thing is not to comment on the fisca, but today we comment on the moral platform the right of some people, their right to life, their right to hope. I was very surprised when a temporary decision by the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund became a permanent norm in the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act, in this budget, which is highly underestimated in our view in the revenue section. Because, what is this, the National Insurance Institute to say that it cannot collect health insurance contributions of 1 million Bulgarian citizens?! Then this decision becomes a Law that we can no longer change, even if it has the necessary funds in the fissure, because the Law prohibits the inclusion of new medicines. The Supervisory Board may decide that they can be spent on clinical pathways, on medicines that have been included so far, but new innovative medicines can no longer be spent if there is no procedure through this Chamber, through the National Assembly. Is there a lot of them, or is there a little bit of that $25 million we're talking about? Yesterday 700 million were spent and today I want to have a discussion. The adequacy of the spending of 700 million lv. by the Council of Ministers today, what we are debating: can we provide 25 million patients in need of badly ill Bulgarian patients? This is today the actual question of the day we have to answer. There was an alternative treatment?! Professor Mihailov is absolutely right, dear colleagues! Very often these patients do not have a clinical response, they do not respond to the known medicines so far, and therefore there needs to be new innovative medicines, but we tell them cynically that our solidarity tool What's left for these people? To seek the means to buy these drugs. Ninety-nine percent don't have that money! To seek the opportunity to heal abroad, to load the cassa?! And that's hard to get. All they have to do is put up with, light a candle in the church, and pray for their lives, and for the hope that, God willing, there is. I'm not going to be very talkative, but I want to tell you that for each of us, a day of reckoning will come for some earlier, for others later. On this day, there is no way you will not note how you are voting today for the veto or against the veto. Believe me, the judge will be not our party power stations, the judge will be the worst of our own consciences! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u49	Thank you, Assoc. Yordanov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Mr. Gokov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u50	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Needless to say, our group will unite the president's veto. In connection with the fact that you did not allow Love Ljubomirova and Adelina Banakieva in the Chamber, I will allow myself from the stands of the National Assembly to read you a letter from a Bulgarian woman. I got it in the mail, got it from 38 other MPs. Mr. Minister, I ask you to listen very carefully to what the people who are directly concerned with this moratorium are saying: Good evening! My name is Stefka, I'm a cancer healer. I just found out that the Budget and Finance Committee has rejected Rumen Radev's veto imposed on art. 11 of the Budget Act of the Health Insurance Fund for 2018. This means that the moratorium on the introduction of new medicines in the list of paid by the Health Insurance Fund remains valid. Genocide is now a fact. Now it's my turn, tomorrow could be someone you care about, you yourself after that. Do you know how many different things can happen to you and how many years old?! Turns out, thousands. A society is judged by how it treats the weak and the sick, and you are part of this society. Now we are suing you, tomorrow our children will be sued for genocide over their own population. From what? Greed. There's no other explanation. These days the parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted at second reading the budget for 2018 of the Health Insurance Fund by imposing a moratorium for one year on all new therapies. I would like to point out here that we are talking about all kinds of new therapies and medications for all kinds of diseases. This means that if the current drug that people with severe diseases have been treated with has already stopped operating, there will be no new drug. It is a well-known fact that in Bulgaria is working with low class generic substitutes and only therapies on which there is such a replacement, but these are not new therapies. In order to produce a geneticist in any new therapy, the license period of the company manufacturer must have expired. In normal language, this means that treatment will only be performed with old therapies. All this happened days after Brussels announced that Bulgaria is not adequate in terms of prevention of preventable mortality. Here we can boast of the lowest survivals in the world in cancer. I am aware that these 25 million, with which the Health Insurance Fund rests from the sick, are a drop in the sea, but before this moratorium at least there was hope for requests, squealing and applause for help. Now there's no such hope. In Bulgaria, in order to treat people with cancer, cardiac, genetic, diabetes and other diseases, they are often forced to draw loans, lose their homes and work and condemn themselves and their loved ones to life in misery and debt. This is the fate of all people with severe diseases here, or at least of the living. I appeal to you to return this bill of review. There's no shame or dishonor in changing your mind. We're human! Please give the sick people a chance to at least believe it's possible. Don't kill both the people and their hopes, because unfortunately, the victims of this moratorium are and could be any one of us, all of us. Find courage and valor and return this law. This is Stephka's letter. Mr. Minister, I refer to you as a financier. Yesterday the Council of Ministers issued a decree of 700 million, today we are making a problem for 25 million. It can't be infinitely legitimization the lack of control and the inability to exercise control over something to destroy the whole thing. Dear colleagues, if you do not hear me from this tribune, listen to this woman, who is one of the people affected by this moratorium, which you impose from a position of strength. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Avramov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u52	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The DPS also presented its arguments when examining the NHIF's budget at first and second readings. We have had a proposal to drop these restrictions because, in this way, sick, and in many cases, these are also young children, we do not share that they do not have access to the most modern treatment. We can refer to a successful example of the use of such medicines from the newest generation in hepatitis C, where the success rate in treatment is over 90%. Of course, there are many other examples. Instead of taking measures and optimizing drug policy with regard to the extremely high prices paid by the National Health Insurance Fund, which are also one of the highest within the European Union, we approach command-administratively with the imposition of restrictions and deprivation of access to modern treatment. Can anyone guarantee that those sick people who are deprived of treatment here will not seek one abroad? That's what those who have opportunities will do, and those who don't? What will happen to them? They will be deprived and kind of doomed! It is also good to hear the voice of patient organizations who are very worried and protesting. Instead of hearing their voice, we even denied them access to the hall today. In view of this, ladies and gentlemen, we will support the President's veto, and these arguments and this position of ours are consistent, have been presented before and will be defended in the future. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Avramov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Dr. Timchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! The colleagues before me spoke expertly about why we from the Bulgarian Socialist Party will support the President's veto. But since it has become a model of GERB management, the so-called "historical principle" of the entire public resource of the Health Insurance Fund, and my speech will be on a historical principle to remind you of some things about health care in Bulgaria. It's 2017. I have to have a stroke to call Boyko Borisov on the phone to send a helicopter and take me to treatment? Should we steal a billion and a half from the Health Insurance Fund...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u55	Two billion!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u56	Yeah, thanks for your help. Because we're a team. Just a week before we voted on the big budget of the state, you gave away 22 million, another 22 million. You gave away 700 million yesterday. It will be difficult for me to raise the funds you will spend under the table, honourable rulers! That's what we're going to keep track of, because it's unprincipled management, it's helplessness, it's money from the public resources distributed under the table. And now, Mr. Minister, you said you would take these funds to heal these people. Again: how will you distribute them, will you distribute them under the table? Because you have made this public in the media that no Bulgarian patient will be left without even such innovative treatment. We insist on parliamentaryism and that each lev from the public resources go through a vote in this House and lay down in the basic laws of the state. That's what you ladies and gentlemen don't take into account. The hubris, the echidic smiles won't help you. You should also listen to the Bulgarian population. Therefore, I, as a doctor, will support patients, and as a MP, will support parliamentaryism. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u58	I just want to say a few things. Firstly, it is absolutely incorrect in another statement, which is being made, to oppose one cost to another, to oppose one person to another, because that is not the point of funding through the budget, and even less so is the point of our work here. Since I am not a doctor, and I am a budgeter, I want to tell you that it is absolutely incorrect to say that here yesterday it was distributed under the 700 million table. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u59	If it was, it's fine!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u60	That is not true because it is spoken by people who do not have a hal-haber. I did not want to use that word, my colleague told me, about how a budget is made and what it is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u61	Only you know how to make a budget!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u62	I want to tell you clearly and categorically: yesterday no 700 million have been distributed. BGN 540 million lv. they are not distributed, but the possibility to bear costs for the toll system by the Ministry of Transport is increased. [[Sighs:.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u63	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u64	It's an increase in the feather, making commitments. That's not giving money. Even less under the table. Second, 120 million. BGN, also not distributed, but increased the ability of the Ministry of Economy to increase the capital of a state enterprise and you know it very well who work in this area, a state enterprise that deals with the disposal of chemical and other harmful substances. In practice, from what the Council of Ministers adopted yesterday, there are only 34 million of which 24 are for renewal of Microsoft's licenses of the state administration. Is that what we're supposed to oppose? Or 10 million that are allocated to the Ministry of Education for school buses to carry the children, is that what we should oppose? Please, let the speeches be correct regarding the distribution of money and the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u65	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Replies to Mrs. Stoyanova's statement? I can't see. Mr. Ibrishimov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Everyone in this room knows what our Health Insurance Fund's responsibilities are to other people's. It's already over 230 million. lv. These obligations were made precisely by patients who had no alternative treatment in Bulgaria and in one way or another because of this they sought treatment abroad. If we prohibit with this moratorium the use of these new modern medicines in Bulgaria, we will move more and more patients to go to treatment abroad, and there their treatment will be worth a minimum of three. And this treatment again we will all be forced to pay for it, with our budget, our Health Insurance Fund. And when in the country every year, I would say on a monthly basis, in the form of surpluses or other schemes, millions are distributed, as said colleague Stoinev, only yesterday nearly 700 million were distributed. BGN, it's just funny that we don't give people 25 million for their health. lv. So please consider your decision and vote as we should protect the interests of Bulgarian patients. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ibrishimov. - What's the line? I can't see. For your statement, Dr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! As a rule, such discussions are loaded with emotions, are loaded with tension, are loaded this time with both expectations and hope. Why am I saying this? Because the degree of tension rose in time between the imposition of the presidential veto and today's discussion. Here is one such statement, for example, which raises tension degrees: a huge manipulation by a small number of people who perform certain private and corporate interests. Who is this huge manipulation? Who are these private and corporate interests and who is behind these interests? This is a very important question. We all agree that under the Constitution, the President, whoever he is, has the right to veto texts that he believes are not acceptable in terms of balancing the public interest. That's what this is about. I would like to declare to you, ladies and gentlemen, that I am not part of the so-called "manipulators" group. I'm not in the group of people who protect corporate interests. I declare myself to be from the other group. From the group of those who have had the chance and opportunity to take advantage of innovative therapy. This is very important to hear because before you press the button, you need to ask yourself the very interesting and important question: will one of you not be the next to need innovative therapy? They'll tell me right away that this therapy is guaranteed. It's gotta be guaranteed. I know you do. I know that even those who don't get on the positive list are on the market. I know that whoever can and has the financial resources can buy them. I know these drugs are free on the market. But, ladies and gentlemen, we must by no means talk about opposing one patient to another. That's true. We should not even talk about opposition to the 700 million colleagues on the left, to those unknown how much leva we voted here as expenses for the purchase of real estate from the National Health Insurance Fund, with money from health contributions. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] I also want to say something very important that some here forget to score. Ladies and gentlemen, by importer, the wording of § 6 also excluded the so-called generic medicinal products and bioproducts. This means that you also have huge doubts about yourself that the moratorium is not the best measure, that the moratorium is a wrong policy. The Moratorium, in your opinion, is a temporary policy, but what it will lead to, we will see in the coming months and years. You're confusing progeny policy with new molecules, with the introduction of innovative preparations. Because there's a choice between a lot of preparations in pro-gener policy. While here, with innovative drugs, there's only one preparation, there's no choice. When this preparation, the innovative molecule, is only a means of choice, then tell me: don't you deprive patients of the right to hope, the right to choice? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, my request is that you reconsider this categorically wrong decision, because the healthcare system is not just a collection of numbers, it is not just a fiscal policy. It also has humanitarian elements, and before these humanitarian elements we must all be equal. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u69	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Extend group time. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Sirakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u70	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I'm not an expert. I listened with extreme attention to those who are experts in this field. I'm not a financial expert either, but I listened very carefully and those who defended the amounts that are being allocated to this activity. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] And I'm gonna put the policies aside.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u71	No, no, on the contrary!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u72	I'm here as a healthy person with the potential patient living in, and this whole thing interests me from that point of view. The money that should be allocated or the money on which the Moratorium is imposed, as we have established, is not so much. They're even infinitely small. But I wouldn't want that money to fuel an illusion and that money to go for a hope, not for a real life, for a real opportunity to live on. [[Shouts from "BSP for Bulgaria": "Eee!".]] Three years ago, there was the newest innovative molecule that cost the most money and gave the greatest hope. [[Replications of the National Representative Dimitar Stoinev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u73	Please, guys! Mr. Stoynev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u74	Three years later, we have the newest, newest molecule, which at this point is the most expensive and which gives the most hope. Mr. Stoynev, I've been sick. Mr. Stoinev, I'm healthy right now and I hope I'll be healthy for a long time! I don't often speak from the stand, I just want to tell a different opinion, which is probably not political because I can't find the logic to determine how to vote. If something three years ago gave the greatest hope and it was the most expensive, after three years we have a new thing that gives the greatest hope and is the most expensive, what happened to the last thing? What happened to the molecule from three years ago? If we recognize a new one now, that means it doesn't work anymore! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And if it works, then why don't we keep using it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u75	There's new technology, isn't there?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u76	When there's new technology, there's...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u77	Well, stop progress!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u78	Mr. Stoynev, please! Please, Mr. Stoinev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u79	New technologies give new opportunities! New technologies give new opportunities and when an opportunity gives a chance for life and people live, it should continue to be used.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u80	Isn't that what we said?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u81	Let us use these funds that we have already paid for, for which we have found that they have produced a result.. These currently do not have the guaranteed result that we expect. So I would vote for the law against the president's veto, with the clear awareness that I do not want to give hope to people, and I have a desire to give real chances for health. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB, lines from MPs from BSP for Bulgaria and MP Nikolay Sirakov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u82	Thank you, Mr. Sirakov. A line? Docent Yordanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u83	I'm asking for an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u84	We've extended the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u85	Dear Sir Sirakov, I want you to understand something! We're not pleading for the molecules established this year. The molecules in question were introduced into a procedure in 2015, i.e. they are already two years old. Next year they'll be in the third year. It is not at all true that they are invented December 2017 and, you see, we want to insert them into 2018. So we already have a 3-year limitation period to insert this molecule. And those who have passed the clinical trials this year, we are already talking about them for 2020. That is what you need to know!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u86	Thank you, Assoc. Yordanov! Second line? Here you go, Professor. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u87	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Sirakov, I bow to your personal history, but believe me, as a doctor, if world medicine had turned its back on hope, it wouldn't have defeated infectious diseases, wouldn't have turned cancer from fatal to chronic, wouldn't have been able to successfully treat the syndrome of acquired immune deficiency. It is precisely because world medicine has always turned its attention to hope and put into it all the financial resources, its soul, its time! So let us not confuse false hope with the real progress of mankind. Thank you. [[Lowered applause and cheers from the BSP for Bulgaria "Bravo, bravo!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u88	Thank you, Professor. Mikhailov. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u89	Thank you. Mrs. Chairman! ▪ What does a person mean here? I fell and someone else will replace me! You have just shot the hope of these Bulgarian citizens, of these patients, of every patient in the future! That is exactly what you have done right now, because this is the hope that a nation hopes. This has supported the Bulgarians during the First, the Second World War, the Balkan, the Inter-Union War, the time of slavery, the Batash massacre! That's hope! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Because, honourable MPs, when the human value, human life as a value, goes to the background, then there is no need for a budget, no need for a government, no need for a country, because we are not such a modern state. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Will there be a hole? No. Any other speeches? Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The doctors spoke experts, the budget experts spoke. We talked about emotions and hopes. But I think it is time and political conversation on this subject, because we are a political body and because health policy is our business. What did I hear from the Budget Commission report that worries me? Manufacturers of new medicines would include these patients in their programs and they would not be left without care. What does this mean in political language? The Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian state give up part of its citizens and tells them: "Let the private producers take care of you! " This is a refusal of politics, a refusal of care for part of Bulgarian citizens, which is both constitutional and legal and moral right of these citizens. Secondly, it may also be a question of finance I have heard the very exotic definition, I will read it literally, because it must mean something: a new design of planning, whatever that means in budgeting and funding. Is there money for these drugs? Obviously, yes! There aren't many of those between BGN 25 and BGN 40 million. If we are talking about politics and government, that means we need to put priorities in order. What is more important is to have a healthy people or roads and tolsystem 513 million. lv.? Or 120 million. lv. for an increase in the capital of a public company, the Ecoantracite? Or staff costs of 600 million. lv. In the Ministry of Justice? All spheres need funding! Our task, your task as a government, and we, as a parliament, are to arrange state priorities for what comes first and next! All right, you're gonna build roads! There will be no people on these roads. Because of the demographic crisis, because of this attitude towards health care. To think about rearranging the priorities there is money, it is important who thinks what should be spent on. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova said that what was dealt yesterday was not distributed, but created opportunities. Well, to give these people opportunities to try to heal and be healthy. We give opportunities to highways and roads, to give these people a chance! We ask ourselves, why do you prefer one to the other? Don't shout and don't jump, but I'll give you my opinion! Because through this funding from yesterday can be stolen, commission can be taken from both roads and from distributed money for projects! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You can't steal from these people! [[GERB lines.]] Third, is it constitutional, or is it unconstitutional what you decide and do? Dear colleagues in charge, when we submitted a proposal for a moratorium on new hospital licenses last week, you jumped and said: "You are limiting from the BSP private property that is guaranteed in the Constitution, so we do not accept your proposal. You said, "Oh, no! This is unconstitutional and the private initiative is limited! Today you are imposing a moratorium on imports of medicines and this is not unconstitutional. So, if the privates are restricted to opening the first 100 hospital in Sofia and the state shuts down the third one in Northwestern Bulgaria, it was unconstitutional and restricts the private interest. And if you stop with the same moratorium, the import of drugs is no longer unconstitutional. Here again I ask the political question: Who takes care of private interests and why? Can you get something back from there? Who will take care of the nation's health and whether something can be obtained from there? Think! Think outside our party frames, let's think statewide! In the same cases for you one is unconstitutional, the other is not. This is unprincipled! In one case, there is no money for health, but there are 700 million. BGN that enables the systems to develop, and we do not allow these people to be healthy! That is why today, apart from the expert conversation, besides the financial conversation, the test and the challenge will be ahead of us: will we also have the political conversation when deciding whether we will be statesmen who think, apart from the Constitution, and about our people?! Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria "Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? There are no lines to Mrs. Ninova's statement. Any other speeches? Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u93	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! The conversation today started from severe moral qualifications and challenges, through an appeal to think politically. I would definitely like to say that the decision to take measures to balance the interests of the health-insured citizens, although through unpopular decisions, is precisely to guarantee the constitutional rights of the Bulgarian citizens. Because the Constitution contains the right of access to free medical care, only regulated by law. Within the framework of the Health Insurance Act governing the functioning of the health insurance system, the members of the National Assembly are empowered to implement this right by means of mechanisms that ensure balance of the interests of the health-insured Bulgarian citizens. Unfortunately, today's debate focuses on a small part of the opportunities to ensure better health for the nation's investment in innovative drug therapy. However, over the years, the health of the nation has been determined by different parameters and all reports that so far concern the Bulgarian health system and public health indicate that the deficit is in a different direction in the direction that we have a late detection of the diseases and have no early diagnosis and access to innovative diagnostic methods, access to prevention. This is one of those unpopular decisions that we had to take in the Transitional and Final Regulations of the Casa budget, namely ensuring the correct ratio between the individual parameters, because in the years there was a significant increase in the costs of medical therapy and this year we have about 100 million. lv. over-spending. At the same time, mechanisms were found in some way to be regulated in outpatient care through the regulatory standard, in hospital care through the estimated budgets that are imposed on hospitals. The following year we adopted another unpopular measure, which somehow escaped the interest of the Head of State and the colleagues on the left. This is the inability of the Cashier to pay for new activities and new hospitals that have joined this year. This is the solution that is not unconstitutional because the problem is not with the existing structures if they are financed by other mechanisms. The problem is that all emerging structures, mainly in the field of hospital care, want to receive funds from our only fund, the National Health Insurance Fund. Why were these two unpopular measures imposed? The fact is that, indeed, in recent years, all the mechanisms of the executive power could not be used to regulate the costs of medicines. The fact is that the National Health Card could not be created and built, which regulates the possibility of the Casa to conclude contracts with certain medical institutions that guarantee equal access for citizens to medical care. We really need to activate the executive power, and that is why we have this political responsibility here with these unpopular solutions to give time, because the measures are temporary, to draw up all these mechanisms which I have heard today and by colleagues from the opposition who will be useful to balance the costs in the Bulgarian health system, namely: national health card; an information system that really ensures the availability of an electronic recipe, electronic file, records of diseases; pharmacotherapeutic guides in which the contemporary therapy and the access of patients to it are clearly regulated, and their inclusion according to the latest postulates of medicine in the individual medical specialties; to ensure the possibility that the medicines that the casata pays and are given to Bulgarian patients do not end up in neighbouring countries through legal change, which will regulate the parallel export to the sizes in which it does not endanger the life and health of the citizens. This is the expert conversation. The rest of the conversation can really be reduced to individual patient fates. Doctors meditate on the fates of their patients and see the images of their patients, only we are called here as politicians to see the whole picture of Bulgarian healthcare. The fact is that the different access of citizens to health services is strengthened over time, because access is not only to innovative medicines, but it is access to a doctor, access to a medical establishment and this must be guaranteed precisely through the balanced budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. This is the challenge that the executive must realise within the framework of the budget that we have adopted for the next year. It is deceptive to claim that we do have no and no access to innovative therapy with regard to cancer patients, because the facts say otherwise: for next year 300 million are provided for the treatment of cancer, and up to this stage 74% of these funds are precisely for innovative molecules and target therapies. Within the specific account of the medicines to be paid by the National Health Insurance Fund next year, and in fact this moratorium will not allow it, it is only about four diseases for which there is no other alternative therapy so far. Two of them are still not on the Cashier's list. One of the diseases really concerns about a thousand patients. It's about idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, tuberosis and macular degeneration. I would like to call on the Ministry of Health to return to the talk about rare diseases.. those who concern a small number of patients, but at the same time their rights must be guaranteed and become the subject of investment by the Ministry of Health, to return to payment with a Fund to give these patients access to drug therapy. Because the meaning of the solidarity system, of solidarity health insurance is to guarantee access to all patients in terms of socially significant diseases, of which a greater percentage of people suffer and of which they actually get sick and die a greater percentage of the nation. That's what balance is all about. I also believe that it is immoral to oppose certain investments in the development of the state of those in health. Because when we invest in better infrastructure, in a better road system, this ensures the health and well-being of the Bulgarian nation. Because you have experts, let them confirm that one of the biggest risk factors for the development of chronic non-infected diseases is precisely poverty. If we overcome this with investment and with the stable development of the economy in time, I guarantee that we will also have a better state of public health. The conversation should really be political, be expert, not use the fates of the people, seek solutions that are stable over time and guarantee the interests and equality of all Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u94	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Any lines to Dr. Daritkova's statement? A line, Mr. Stoinev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! Mrs. Daritkova, I'm shocked by what I've heard once again from you. You seem to be entering this parliament now, as if you have not managed until now, and suddenly you continue to talk about these expert conversations, that Bulgarian medicine is collapsing, that we are closing hospitals, that our specialists no longer wish to exercise their noble profession here in the country. For us, the main priority of BSP is to have a healthy and educated nation! This is our priority, not like you, to sit around and give money for highways, highways and steal from them! Here's the difference, and from the beginning I'm telling you this between you and us. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Everyone has to have hope, we have to give it to them. At the moment, I am ashamed that we are debating such an antihuman act, a decision that has been made in the dark, and one reason alone, and these are the fiscal criteria. Because I understand that we're bad at economics, that there's no money, but we've been deaf to our ears here all year for the big surplus, for the lot of money, and last night in the dark, 700 million went around. lv. That is why we call for this money to be spent here in the Bulgarian Parliament. This was the main topic of the debate that we had. You're telling us that, you see, people had access to drugs, to health care! Mrs Daritkova, you and colleagues from GERB, just live in another world of prosperity, of well-being, but the truth is that people in Bulgaria suffer and die because you do not want to provide access to quality health care! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u96	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Second line from Mr. Kostadinov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u97	Madam President, honourable Members! I will allow myself to make a reply to Mrs Daritkova on the following: I do not agree with the wording that the debate should not be political. Colleagues, the debate is very complicated precisely for the following reason: the clear expert opinions that have been heard here and each of them outlines the situation, we must put them in a certain political solution. It is not possible for nationally responsible and publicly important issues to be taken solely on the basis of expert evaluation and expert decision alone. That's why I think, going back to what Assoc said. Yordanov, that in Bulgaria innovative medicines have one two-three-year delay in implementing them in reality. We believe that this is the main argument to take the political decision on the basis of this expert assessment that, two or three years late, we do not need a moratorium, as they are already late. So my line is this and I end with this: it is not enough to have just an expert assessment, and the difficulty in our debate is that we also have to bind it to a political solution, given all the expert opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u98	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Third line? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u99	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs Daritkova, by thanking you for the basic explanations you have tried to make to the opposition, I will ask you and I will appeal for some more explanations to make sure that the opposition really cares about people's health rather than the redistribution of imports and probably exports. A lot of concepts and definitions are used, and I think they are quite freely used: innovative medicines, international non-proprietary names, or unpatented. I mean, the root and the legal consequences are the same. I can do an analysis, but I have a few seconds left on the three qualifications in terms of trademarks and patents and generics in medicine. I ask you to distinguish: what do you think the opposition is fighting for in this case? What's the problem: is it in the name or in the health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Before I give the duplicate to Dr Daritkova, honourable colleagues, our guests today are: the President of the Skupstina of the Republic of Montenegro, Ivan Brajovic, and his parliamentary delegation. [[Loud applause]] Our colleagues from Montenegro are on a two-day official visit to Bulgaria. Thank you. Dr. Daritkova, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm sure everything in this room is turning into politics! Politics should be made in the interests of people and their real needs, not in the interests of one political force or other interests. I understand the opposition's difficulties because they listen to their experts. Unfortunately, their experts have shown differing opinions. If you're referring to Professor Spock's opinion. Geidarski, a former minister of your political power, he said that Bulgarian patients have sufficient resources for medical therapy, which is at the latest level. In this sense, your confusion is understandable. However, we have always taken the political decisions with the necessary amount of responsibility, and this responsibility has been borne by us for our previous governments and for what will happen next year. Yes, it is a responsible decision to temporarily decide not to have access to these drugs, to seek solutions. Because, again, I stress that this solution is temporary to solve the problems of all people with their access to medical care. Because here, if we mention the problems of patients with diabetes mellitus and children who want the latest modern means of better control, if we mention the problems of patients who need new medical devices and their balanced funding, because there also access is not 100% free of charge guaranteed if we get acquainted with the problems of hospitals, the balance must really be found at a high, responsible political level. That is what we are going to do next year. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I am counting on you to be constructive, not to submit every day unreasonable proposals written on your knees somewhere on the sidelines of parliament, and to waste time on the essential conversation about how to optimize our health system, and to look for the balance of solutions between the opportunities for progeny therapy and the entry of new innovative methods,...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u102	[[BSP for Bulgaria, from place]] : How will you provide a better life for people?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u103	...balances on how to ensure a better life for Bulgarian citizens and, respectively, better health. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u104	Listen to Mrs Daritkova's ass. Colleagues, please also welcome our guests from the Primary School of Vasil Levski and the Primary School of Ivan Hadzhiyski. [[Applause.]] Next statement? Here you go, Mr. Danailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u105	Good afternoon! I want to declare a conflict of interest because I will support the president's veto, and I am oncological, so I declare a conflict of interest. Dear friends, until now I've had the opportunity to listen to you and watch you on TV. I came here specifically to offer you something. I don't like this sharp tone, these scandals and so on when it really is about human life. If I'm in remission for three years, I don't know what God will say in a month, two, a year. I guess the chemistry they've been pouring me over the years won't work anymore, so we're gonna have to try a new chemistry. You'll say, "You've got money, you'll buy money." I do, but those people who don't?! Dear friends, there are doctors here, there are people who assume they also have this disease. I know at least one who does. There's no way you haven't lost loved ones to this nasty, treacherous, dirty disease, no way! Let's do this: let's make two groups and go for a walk in Sofia oncology and national haematology to see what kind of people are inside. The big percentage is young people, young people who have to live and can't! I am witnessing the frustration of doctors who say: "Everything we try and fail, and it doesn't work, and it doesn't work! " That's why I don't care about the millions, they obviously didn't go to waste. But this time let's not gesture, to fulfill our duty. We were chosen by the people. There are fellow MPs here who have been here for many years. Many people have been behind our applications and many people have also been burned by this treacherous disease. We're not going to break the budget that badly, because listening to Dr. Daritkova, we're not going to ruin the country if we split that 25 million. I address you as your friend, a man who respects you and loves you. Dear friends, let's change politics and act more humanely! Because what God forbid happened to you happened to live, not knowing whether you would survive or not, is scary! Scary are the moments when you wait for the bad to come or wait for the good to come. I've experienced it, and that's why I'm allowing myself to share it with you. I'm counting on your sanity. Thank you. [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria. Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Danailov. Mr. Chakarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u107	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! We can't help but get excited after these emotionally and frankly, humanly spoken words from the respected by all of us, Mr. Stefan Danailov. I would like to repeat on our behalf and on my behalf, I stress that, as a doctor, there is an opportunity for patients who need the most modern treatment to have access to this treatment. Mr. Minister, you are one of the best financiers in our country. I appeal to the ruling majority and to all our fellow Members here in plenary. You can always find reservations. By the way, these were proposals from the DPS for second reading to drop these restrictions. Unfortunately, our voice hasn't been heard. The voice of the patient organizations was not heard, i.e. the civil society that protested, I would say, for good reason. We here must hear the voice of our fellow citizens where possible, and here I see no reason why this should not happen. This financial framework is definitely within the scope of the possibility to implement it. I will allow myself to say definitely that all the arguments that are pointed out here at the different stages of examining the NHIF budget are not valid in view of giving chance and hope. Although not in all cases there is a success rate, but it is evident that there is a success rate, the example of hepatitis C has already been mentioned, even for one diagnosis, for some of the patients to be successful, human life is invaluable and we must do everything we can to help each patient. I would also like us to look at this from another aspect. We have exceptional doctors, medics, people working in the health care system. I assure you, our medicine works at an extremely high level. Why should we deprive ourselves of modern achievements and those who have opportunities to go are treated outside the country, and those who do not and will not find a way to be included in the lists of treatment abroad will be deprived?! Under no circumstances in my capacity as a doctor would I like to allow such a hypothesis and to have such patients! Regarding the other, which was said here by the ruling majority, by representatives of GERB to have prevention, naturally, we all know as citizens, as people, that it is best to have prevention and early detection of all diseases. In this context, we have made a proposal here to finally start with real actions and steps to change configuration, in the structure of functioning of the healthcare system. We have proposed to give weight to extra-hospital assistance, where this happens normally in practices and spending funds, Mr. Minister, would be much more effective. You are very familiar with the structure of funding and the way the system works. The effectiveness would be better for all of us, as citizens and as patients. In this way, there will really be a need to use such medicines in fewer cases. However, we must not deprive any patient who has reached this stage. We have been approached by people who are waiting for a particular drug, even from the routine ones, and you have no idea how hopefully they are waiting for this medicine and to be helped. In most cases, they cannot be helped, but this does not mean that there should be no other approach than the one we should apply. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Madam President. The other thing I would say is that drug pricing policy needs to be optimized. Unfortunately, we are the country where the most money is given for medicines. This money, if given by the National Health Insurance Fund, that is, the health care system, comes out of all of us jointly and must be spent most effectively! The highest prices within the European Union are unfortunately in our country! Therefore, the reserve has a place where to optimize so as to provide these funds for the sake of giving the chance and opportunity to treat each one. Oh, my God, that's a success! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today's debate has once again created conditions for opposition to the Bulgarian society. Some say that we do not protect the sick, others say that they do all sorts of other things just to avoid solving problems. I respect Mr. Stefan Danailov, but I think and I would say that in today's debate he was used. [[Voices "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u110	Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u111	Colleagues, please! Keep quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u112	Because there's no one who doesn't have a loved one with cancer or who hasn't lost a loved one because of cancer. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] My father died at the age of 62, from cancer. That is why I do not want to speculate on this subject here in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u113	Give me the money!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u114	When we have a budget of 485 million more for 2018, isn't that a better health policy that will make today's government?! [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria: New policies?!]] The costs to be incurred by the National Health Insurance Fund amounted to 407 million. lv. Colleagues, healthcare money for 2018 will be 4 billion. The Commission therefore concludes Respect and respect, Mr. Danailov, but you must always look for balance! You said about young people, about yourself, but I want to put here and those who have left. I'm repeating my personal problems. What we can talk about today is looking for policies that reach people and prevent these diseases from being less! This is done with the necessary balance. That's why you make such a balance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u115	What balance?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u116	Isn't it better to have the necessary prophylaxis, isn't it better to have the necessary diagnosis, isn't it better to have the necessary examinations to allow us to live longer and prevent any such cancer?! In today's debate he could have gone out to speak and Vejdi Rashidov, because he is also being treated for cancer. We could have invited the Fandakova Dancheto here today, who also got over it. What she calls for and everyone who goes down this road is primarily prevention and prevention, because this is the key to success. That is why, in this budget, we have made precisely such a balance. Colleagues, if we are going in this hypothesis that you are proposing, this means that from health care money we must take away the means of prevention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u117	How could that happen?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u118	I want all these young people to be able to do the necessary preventive examinations, to go there and to be able to prevent what is happening to both Stefan Danailov and Vejdi Rashidov and Yordanka Fandakova and to everyone who has certain problems. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] From this point of view, please, colleagues from BSP, as always, try to use people! [[Laughter, noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In this direction, you have once again shown that you are not talking about policies, but only want to use people to achieve some political goals. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u119	Please, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u120	Finally, because everyone knows that at the moment the debate is about the so-called '32 molecules', colleagues, has anyone come out in this debate to talk about what is being done in the countries of the European Union? Today's meeting began with a call for Schengen entry and how unfairly we do not enter the Schengen area. This means that we must draw on the good experience of developed democracies, those who do not use this debate in this way, but solve the problems and apply the necessary prevention. Colleagues, I don't know if you know this, but in the countries of the European Union about these 32 molecules, which we have been debating for so many hours now, 8 molecules of these 32 are being funded in 11 EU countries under condition. The remaining 12 molecules of these 32 are financed in six other countries of the European Union. Do you think that they do not think in a way to preserve human life or to make the necessary treatment with the latest innovative products?! Do you think they don't?! Colleagues, there should be no populism in this debate! In this debate there should be no irresponsible behaviour, but there should be the necessary expertise and exit from the actual ability of the state to make the balance that we have foreseen in this budget. Let us not speculate that these 32 molecules and the increase in budget will solve the problem. The problem won't be solved! We must actually make sure that the problem is dealt with with the necessary prevention and that is why we have achieved this balance and have adopted this budget! I repeat: of these 32 molecules 8 are financed in 11 countries under condition. [[Relations from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]] The remaining 11 molecules are funded in only 6 countries. [[Relations from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]] Yeah, it's for you!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u121	Mr. Stoinev, you'll have a chance to say a line. Please don't call from the gym! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u122	One man to save is important!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u123	Mr. Tsvetanov, don't come in here and talk to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u124	Mr. Stoynev, I will tell you that from the policy we made in the first term of office, we saved over 400 lives only in the fight on the road. Victims were over 1,000, and of the measures we've taken, we've reached 600. [[Applause from GERB]] So maybe we saved a lot more people's lives than you did! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u126	Dear colleagues, Mr. Tsvetanov, on this occasion, the last one with the first term and how many lives you have saved, let me remind you that the very first term is the one in which a billion and a half of the Health Insurance Fund went elsewhere. Do you know how much prevention you could have done with that billion and a half? Or maybe half of those cases you mentioned personally wouldn't have happened if that money had gone to prevent it. Now remember, eight years later, after you tell me you gave me $650 million?! You then withdrew 1 and a half billion, Mr. Tsvetanov, and you personally participated in this because you were a member of the government back then. A billion and a half! [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise and lines.)]] You are indebted to the Bulgarian citizens and to healthcare while standing on this bank and 10 years after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Second line? I can't see. For the doppelganger? [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] He doesn't have an ass. Mr. Danailov's personal explanation. Please don't call from the gym. Mr. Danailov, come in for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u128	I was all I was, only I wasn't. It sounds like a strong one to me. Comrade Tsvetanov, I'm sorry, I thought you had a higher opinion of me. If you think someone can bring Stefan Danailov here, in this room, and share some thoughts of their own, you're very mistaken. I just walked in. And nobody even asked me to come, I'm a sick man. So very please take care of the words you use with regard to me and my comrades. However, no matter what you say, no matter how much you call him, and yell at him, and trying to steal from someone in this room is not gonna happen that way. I would like to say to you that the small gesture that I expected would happen by your parliamentary group is clearly not going to take place, which I am very sorry for. I'm sorry for people who don't think like you, Comrade Tsvetanov. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u129	Thank you, dear Mr. Danailov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Do you have a statement, Mr. Rashidov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u130	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister! Colleagues, it's not good to play around with diseases. I wish no one, I told my enemies. I hope that Mr. Tsvetanov loves and respects Stefan Danailov no less than I do, because he is a man of love, he is a man without whom history cannot pass. I have both respect and respect for him, and I will not comment on a single word. What I want to tell you is that this debate is starting to get very unpleasant again. Don't play with people's diseases first! Nobody asked for it. Secondly, is there anyone in this room who wants someone dead? It is clear to all of you and 100 million to become the budget, there is a problem with the flow of funds. Out of 300 million he became 4 billion. Is it bad to want to help? I want to tell you frankly: my treatment abroad was not because there are bad doctors in Bulgaria. We have wonderful Bulgarian doctors, my wife is a doctor for 30 years at Pirogov. My treatment was that we were still a poor people and I had to use a very important technique, a very special technique such as one of the great clinics of Berlin, so that I could speak today. My treatment for a man who spent his whole life paying for his health insurance, and on high incomes, one part of my high income is already at KTB, cost 70 grand. Euros, colleagues! Half of them cannot be covered by the Health Insurance Fund because we are a poor people. I've covered my expenses and kept my... Finally, we have a minister who says openly: "We have to stop the leaks in the health care sector, and this is Minister Ananiev. Let this guy let him, like a really good budgeter, stop leaks, so he can then have a quality health debate. Don't you agree with that? Then pour money without end! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're wrong! I don't think this debate belongs here. The budget's up, let's see if it's enough again. Let's see! It's up, it's not down the health budget, and then let's talk. What are we all spitting at now? We abuse our diseases. Yes, there are diseases. And God forbid, I say again, all of you, be safe! Today is my birthday and I wish you the most sincere health, health and a little better for the New Year! Alive and well! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u131	Thank you. Let's congratulate Mr. Rashidov on his birthday and wish him his best health! [[Applause.]] Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Colleagues, I re-vote the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018, adopted by the National Assembly on 29 November 2017. [[Replications from attending the balcony representatives of patient organizations.]] Please, the Quaestors, secure the order of the balconies. Vote 221 MPs: 126 against 95 abstentions. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Wait a minute! In accordance with art. 86, para. 4 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, we are re-accepting the Law because more than 121 MPs voted for it. The law will be sent to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic of Bulgaria within seven days of its receipt, according to art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution. Here's a negative vote. First, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u132	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I voted for the third time against this Law and the debate in this House today convinced me that I was right to vote against this Law and my fellow Members. Mr. Tsvetanov, I address you as the head of the largest parliamentary group. I listened carefully to your speech, as did the entire debate. What we're doing in this room today is absolutely wicked! This is a defect of the system we are talking about, which no one is willing to reform. What work does parliament have to determine with which medicines patients will be treated?! In which country is this happening? It's the work of the health department with the hospitals and the patients concerned. It's the same in all normal countries. How much longer does it take the Bulgarian Parliament and the political forces to understand that the system with one health fund is defective and it will give defects, no matter how much money we pour?! No matter how much they want to have government and opposition to help people, there's no way it's going to happen to this model. There's no model anywhere in the world! Understand it! We from the DPS are addressing both BSP and those in charge of you: until the model is reformed, we here in this room will have counterproductive conversations on topics that are not our business. Mr. Ananiev, I'm addressing you as well. In the opinion of the MRF since 2005, and you know it because you have participated in these talks, to forgive me doctors, it is said that the system can only be reformed in this part of it by an economist. You have this unique opportunity, which is given to you by the ruling majority, if you will by fate. Use your knowledge as an economist, a budgeter and convince the ruling majority that it is absolutely wrong, I cannot even find the word to exist in Europe such a health system. With one case that carries all its problems here in this Chamber. What can we decide if they can't agree?! We of the DPS will always vote against until we convince you that the reform must take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u133	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you go, Mr. Kutev. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]] Please keep order in the hall and do not engage in verbal skirmishes from your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u134	My fellow Members, I voted negatively, firstly, because, of course, this was a purely human choice for me. It's really not clear to me, after all, really, when you think in some national scheme or on a large scale, you probably don't pay attention to the small things, but this year it's really our vote that's gonna cost someone their lives. God forbid there are fewer people who will actually suffer from this vote of ours. I voted against it because it will have real human dimensions. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this voice of yours has now passed with the six votes of Volja. If it hadn't been for Volja, if it hadn't been for Mareshki, if it hadn't been for the man with the cases against him, this vote wouldn't have passed now. It is not only about the consequences of the vote, it is also about the way it has been achieved. Today you passed this vote with the votes of Mareshki, who is dependent on you. An addict supported this vote, and without it, it wouldn't have happened! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u135	Thank you. Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u136	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against it even more convinced by the speeches I have heard from the rulers because they have also proved one thing: for them the finances stand above the lives of the people, for them the policy they carry out on financial stability is based on the graves of those who die of their loss. Their behaviour today with this vote has turned a voting button into a death penalty button for those who will not receive the necessary treatment. I voted against because the balance in the Health Insurance Fund and in the budget was contrary to the lives of the individual. And I want each and every one of you, when someone dies tomorrow, to look his relatives in the eye and say: "Sorry, your loved one died because of the balance in the system." I would like to ask you something else: because the measure is temporary, let us ask the monuments of those who die to write:.. Victims of a temporary measure...... because you have achieved something that has never been achieved in this Parliament.............................................................................................................................................. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u137	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Colleagues, before we go any further, please welcome our guests - these are students and young people from the Municipal Council in Stara Zagora. [[Applause.]] It's a procedural proposal. [[Noise in the room.]] Please be quiet! Yesterday the Conference of Presidents discussed the possibility that parliamentary control, in its part, answers to questions and questions, should continue after 2400 until the questions and questions have been exhausted according to the order announced. Therefore, on the basis of art. 106, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that parliamentary control in plenary on 15 December 2017, Friday, be extended until the questions and questions are exhausted according to the order to be announced. I'm voting on the procedural proposal. They voted 111 MPs: 103, against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. Thank you. (After interruption)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u138	Colleagues, please take your seats so we can continue our work. We continue with the next item on the agenda: The Council of Ministers submitted on 6 October 2017 and adopted a first vote on 25 October 2017. Mr. Kirilov, please come in and present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! "Report on the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, No 702-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 October 2017, adopted at the first vote on 25 October 2017. Dear Mr. Chairman, before presenting the name of the bill, please ask for a procedure for admission on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly of Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov "Deputy Minister of Justice."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u140	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I put to the vote the procedure for admission in the hall of Deputy Minister Stoyanov. Vote 85 MPs: 81 against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite Deputy Minister Stoyanov to the Chamber. Please continue, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The anti-corruption action and the seizure of illegally acquired property. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. "Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u142	Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We had a difficult debate this morning, which involved several tens of million leva. There are often such difficult debates here. How do these few tens of million leva relate to the billions that run out of the Bulgarian state and the honest taxpayers because of the widespread corruption? It was hard to explain to some people why so much money should not be given, but a truth should not be saved: there is a lot of money on an illegal basis to people who should not be given. And that is why this Law is so important, and that is why this Law is important to Bulgarian citizens, who, in their vast part, define corruption and dishonesty, the way of making a decision as a major problem that prevents the development of our nation. Therefore, this Law is also important for those who are watching our country from outside.. Investors, partners, other countries. That is why all political parties have promised to make such a law. I won't repeat the debate at first reading. But I strongly oppose the title of the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. This Law is not about countering corruption! For the seizure of illegally acquired property, perhaps, for a conflict of interest, yes, for the publicity of property, but not for countering corruption. This is fog and this fog must be distracted, and will be distracted with every text of the Law, because there is nothing in the Law on Corruption. And where there's something, it's only added as a makeup, like a masquerade. According to art. 1 This Law regulates measures to counter corruption, on the one hand. Secondly, this is not actually true. Measures to counter corruption are also governed by many other laws. Here are not the measures - we have the Law on Administration, where the inspectorates are settled, we have the Law on the judiciary, where the Law on Corruption in the Magistrate circles is addressed, we have the Penal Code. And it's not anecdote, because this Law has been presented to us, you see, as some sort of codification of what exists in this matter, which, by putting everything together, will become effective. What we're going to say in one place is what we're going to say in the next terms, but right here we can say that in art. 1 is the absolute inefficiency of this Law. You see, he arranges, according to art. 1, t. 2, and the terms and conditions of withdrawal for the benefit of the State of illegally acquired property. It regulates, ladies and gentlemen, a kind of withdrawal, the so-called civil service, which, to this day, is the subject of many disputes, including in a courtroom, but which, despite its adepts and its critics, has been found to be some lasting practice, good or bad, this is the subject of another debate. However, this Law does not take away the terms and conditions of any kind of withdrawal for the benefit of the State of such property. This kind of withdrawal is also contained in the Penal Code. It is defined in art. 53 such as the possession of a criminal liability for the benefit of the State of property belonging to criminals. This Law is a false law! It will not work or work selectively, and will in no way contribute to the fight against corruption. We will see that there is one missing from it. We lack the tool to fight corruption. What's he like? And once and for all, we have to say: corruption is a crime. We can argue by her definition, but not by her place. Her place is in the penal code. Everything else is dust in people's eyes. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u144	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Before I give the floor for lines, let's greet our guests from the Primary School Mihail Kumanov. Cave. [[Applause.]] Thank you. Any lines on Mr. Zarkov's statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u145	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u146	Procedure. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am addressing you because we are at the beginning of reading a serious regulatory act. My request, as President, is that we try to comply with the Rules of Procedure as much as possible. In the names of the legal act and of Chapter 1 as well as of art. 1, there is not a single proposal received by the Members of the National Assembly. I understand the temptation, when it comes to commenting on the name, to make a general assessment of the regulation. But we're at second reading. We had this debate at first reading. We continued it in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I am sure that you will in no way limit the speeches, but my request is that we stick to the order and manner of holding the second vote. You're tempting us to answer you - to get into a debate on concepts, to say what's masked, which is true. I'm not going to answer that for now. I will try to start the debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure: to comment on a norm norm, a proposal on a proposal, mainly the unsubstantiated proposal, because the proposals adopted in principle have nothing to comment on, even when the people's representative, whose proposal has been adopted, has the argument and the reason to say: "Here, look, my proposal has been accepted. Yes, but it's accepted! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u148	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I, too, would like to ask the honourable Members for the speeches, the lines and the answers to be met on this subject. You have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, at the beginning of this text, I ask you not to submit to this temptation to interrupt the debate. Not only are we not afraid of the responses of the importers and defenders of this Bill, on the contrary, we urge them to disprove us, to respond, to clarify. This Law is also expected that there are no proposals on a given text does not mean that it should not be discussed, on the contrary, it is reported and discussed. Whether there is a proposal or not, there is absolutely no relation to the text. And I remind you that in my statement, I have taken account of the name of the Law, which has been reported and under art. 1 If it comes out of the debate, it is better to close this debate and go straight to the vote. I call on all those who have a bearing on the subject to take the floor now, because after three months of you, not to me, will want the results of this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u150	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u151	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to speak on the title of the proposed Draft "Project for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property." We are offered a legal nonsense, a mistake that is at stake, and we must avoid it today. What do I mean? This concept does not exist, at least at present in the legal peace. Each property is acquired on a legitimate basis. If the contract with which this property is acquired is null and void, it does not produce the relevant legal consequences and they cannot occur, and we cannot take any property that does not belong to the individual offender. That is why I believe that this mistake should be made and that the bills of other countries which have decided it in a more reasonable way should be looked at and proposed in their name, for example, the removal of property acquired in a criminal manner or any similar text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u152	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. A line or a statement? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a proposal for a technical change in the title of this Law, which will be bound in practice by art. 1 The general situations of the Law, as the title should sound: the Law on Settlement of the Status and Functions of the Commission on Illegally Acquired Property, because obviously in art. 1 is spoken only about the functions and status of this Commission, about the Commission's interaction with other state authorities, such as yes, indeed. 1 are described in general the anti-corruption efforts. Nowhere is it clear what exactly measures should be taken, namely by general terms. So I also propose that the title be in line with art. 1 and further down with the entire bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u154	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Can I ask you once again clearly the proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u155	Yeah. Let's make it sound like this: the Commission's Law on the Settlement of the Status and Functions of the Illegally Acquired Property.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u156	Thank you. Procedure, Mr. Kirilov? A statement. Here you go. Then we will vote on Mr. Popov's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I asked for a statement, even if we were at the very beginning, but I admit that the proposal made by my colleague Philip Popov tempted me not to abstain and to make a speech. Notice how he introduced his editorial proposal. He twice had to repeat it twice, and he said the following: I propose the name to sound... and he made the proposal as he thought it should sound. Look, when we speak in front of our constituents, when we speak in front of an audience, when we speak even in this Chamber, we can actually use the words in view of the wealth of their meanings, we even have the opportunity to convey a different meaning in their content, to search for a specific nuance. That's indisputable! Colleagues, both at first reading, and within the two-day session, actually two days and two nights in the Legal Committee, discussed at second reading this Bill, did not abstain, on the contrary, continue to tempt you, that the concepts have a different meaning, that what you see should be determined otherwise, that, you see, there is no countering corruption here, it was something else and it was in some other law. We have repeatedly announced our goal with this Bill. We sought codification, we had ambition, and only the legal technique made us refrain from calling this Law Codex. We wanted to unite all norms with regard to the fight against corruption and the consequences of this fight into a single legal act. But that wasn't a measure! But there's no investigation! And then on Chapter nine, we have been arguing for several hours about exactly what kind of investigation we have proposed and what functions we have placed on the so-called descriptive statement from the National Security Agency, which should be part of the Commission for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property! Colleagues, if you want an argument about concepts, I'll get the textbooks out. I absolutely disagree with the fact that the notion of unlawfully acquired property was nonsense. The rule is absolutely correct! Acquisition, colleagues, in order to be valid in order to have an effect, can only happen when there is a legal basis, that is, when the Law is respected. When you acquire the property in an illegal way or through a crime, then you have no acquisition within the meaning of the Law. So this concept clearly distinguishes the criminal or illegal means by which a property has been acquired. If you had a claim, I'd still say you'd have made suggestions. In the debate in the Legal Commission, I have always stimulated you and asked you: "Do you make a concrete proposal from this long exhibition?" And at second reading, proposals can be made, even though the opportunity to do so with written proposals is missed, according to the Rules of Procedure. However, I ask you to concentrate your attack on this bill, to clarify this attack! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u158	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Mr. Zarkov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u159	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, to clarify the attack, as you say, against this bill, this is not a codifying bill. This, in order to be a codifying bill, should follow the two principles of codification, namely: to gather in one place rules concerning one matter and to use this collection to further develop them and stick with each other. What is one matter of the withdrawal of illegally acquired property by civil means, of the establishment of a conflict of interest by administrative means, of the operational and search activity which is not clear on which path exactly will it be developed, and of the publication of property to senior officials? This is not only not the same matter, but with arguments that it is not the same matter, the MPs so far, in previous national meetings, in which not I, you have participated, have made a separate Law for each of these things, because they must develop independently of each other. She's like this... In the transcripts, when you see how the Law of Conflict of Interest was adopted, or the Law of Withdrawal... the main argument there is that, you see, this has to happen independently in order not to be influenced and be able to concentrate in one place. The idea of a new Corruption Act was to create precisely a new independent body to specialize in the prosecution of corruption. Therefore, my reply to you is this: I do not agree with this statement that there is some type of codification going on here. Here we gather four laws in force so far, which, obviously, according to our overall assessment, have not worked.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u160	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Another line? I won't. Dear Mr. Kirilov, the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u161	Dear Mr. President, I will use the duplicate, but I declare that this will be my last general statement on common issues and issues relating to the regulation, in general terms. In order to respond more illustratively to my colleague Zarkov, I will ask him this way: colleague Zarkov, what is the connection between the proceedings What's the connection? And I will take from your words a continuation of the logic for the fight against corruption: what is the purpose of corruption, Mr. Zarkov? Apparently, someone's getting rich! Someone, by abuse of authority, get a benefit or a preference or a benefit that is not due to him. If this criminal intent has been accomplished successfully, then there is such a good, such property, such a result that has been acquired. Well, that's the connection and the answer, if we have an illegal phenomenon, which in this case is a crime, we also have to settle the consequences of the outcome. What, leave the property that's illegally acquired? Yes, we have commented much about how many hypotheses we have on the ground that we lack for the acquisition of one property, but this property is not a figure, this property is not an intruder's property, this property must be sanctioned and returned to where it was taken. And it is taken from the general good by the state, by the municipality, by the Health Fund or whatever, but it is of one common thing. That's the connection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u162	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Colleagues, I will put to the vote the proposal of MP Philip Popov on changing the name of the Law. The text was presented. They voted 119 MPs: 28 against 68, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 1 and the text of the importer under art. The three texts are supported by the Commission. They voted 121 MPs: 92 against 28, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman! Article 2 "Instruction text'. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev: Everywhere in the Project, where the words "highest public office" or "highest public office" are used, the words "highest public office" and "highest public office" are used. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u164	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The main motive for our proposal is: firstly, the proven effectiveness of the centralized system for establishing and sanctioning the conflict of interest currently in force as of June 2011. Until then, the decentralised system has been in operation since January 2009. The nature of the centralised system consists of the fact that a collective independent body located in the executive system performs the state function of establishing and sanctioning the administrative infringement for all persons............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3 of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest, these are between 115 thousand and 120 thousand civil servants. The centralized system provides a professional and expert start in establishing the serious infringement of the "Conflict of interest." The proceedings for conflict of interest are specifically in independent administrative proceedings. Its specifics, as well as the importance of its implementation to ensure independence from the private interests of the public authorities, require the award of a central and special government body as the current Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest provides. The centralized system, which we propose to be laid down in the Law, ensures, in our view, the uniformity and relative homogeneousness of the administrative and, accordingly, the caselaw of application of the Law. The centralized system shall also rule out suspicions of conjuncture in the event of dependences in the adoption of decisions establishing or not establishing a conflict of interest. These decisions will be decreed by a collective centralized body with central competence, which operates in the capital and is constituted by three different bodies. With the intended art. 13, p. 4 and in relation to Art. 6, para. 1 and § 2 of the "Additional provisions" of the Bill, which we are currently looking at, are offered about 1000 state bodies of appointment or choice, as well as permanent committees to the municipal councils to take over the functions of establishing and sanctioning the conflict of interest. I would like quite systematically to specify who these bodies are. These are the Anti-Corruption Commission and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in respect of persons holding senior public positions on the catalogue of art. 6 of the already adopted Project; the appointing authority in the Administration of the President of the Republic with regard to the administration of the President of the Republic; the appointing authority in the administration of the National Assembly regarding the same. Six hundred and three are the administrative bodies of appointment: Minister, Director of Agency, Mayor, Heads of territorial state bodies in relation to persons holding public posts Two hundred sixty-five are the permanent committees to the municipal councils, which will examine the prevention and establishment of conflict of interest of over 3,000 mayors of town halls in the country. The administrative directors of the judicial authorities shall be the appointing authorities of their administrations with regard to the staff in those administrations. This institutional framework calls into question the ability of smaller administrations to conduct competent and lawful proceedings to identify and sanction conflict of interest for the employees concerned. Conditions shall be established to generate different practices in identical or identical cases and to harass the overall state activity in establishing conflict of interest. It is possible, given the practice until 2011, when the decentralised system acted, the emergence of doubts about the impartial resolution of individual cases by local authorities or the management of territorial state bodies. An additional argument for maintaining the centralised system is also the prevention of conflict of interest, which is an emphasis and an important priority in the current state activity in this matter. Because, in our opinion, prevention is likely to solve to a high extent a high percentage of the very occurrence of conflict of interest. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Prevention is also carried out through various forms that are impossible when the decentralised system is introduced. I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u166	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague, the problem is that the government of GERB did not learn from their mistakes because there was such a system of deconcentration until 2009 and it was not working. Then it changes, it becomes this concentration in relation to the same name committee. There is only one practice, i.e. uniformity of practice for the whole country. Now we return to the old system, which will really lead to this deconcentration and lack of equal practice in the country. Because who's gonna be watching for a conflict of interest? The assignment authority, but one will be the practice in Burgas, another in Varna, third in Vidin, fourth in Sofia. This poses huge risks at all to the legal order on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u168	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Yachev, I disagree with your statement as it was incomplete. I expected you to emphasise more that the new regulations and the introduction of decentralisation of the system for establishing and preventing conflicts of interest will be implemented in practice by bodies that do not have the administrative capacity to carry out these activities. The colleague Popov in a line before me drew attention to the diverse practice they created. In addition to mixed practice, it should be stressed that municipal councils, especially in small municipalities, do not have any administrative capacity to deal with the prevention and establishment of conflict of interest. In this very easily everyone can be convinced by looking at the practice, while the still-in force Law on the prevention and establishment of conflict of interest was in place. Moreover, in practice, we are taking a very serious step back, something that has been overcome by the Act in force, and we are returning, I would say, totally unfounded to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u170	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Another line? I won't. Right on the back of the jacket, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u171	We are all aware that the currently in place Commission for the establishment and prevention of conflict of interest is working hard, nevertheless. It works hard because it is in a composition that is very difficult to raise a majority to make decisions. It should not be because of the mistakes made in the past that the centralised system for establishing and preventing conflicts of interest should be Satanized at all. It's vicious and wrong. The return of the decentralised system will undoubtedly lead, first of all, to inequality, I said it because all of us, fellow MPs and other representatives of the senior administration, which we fall into the top public officials, will be investigated by a centralized body with professionals and experts in this area. Here my colleague Mitev gives me the opportunity to develop the issue: the local municipal committees for establishment and prevention of conflict of interest are largely with questionable professional qualifications and experience. So it is very difficult to guarantee the impartiality and quality of the decisions they will make. On the other hand, I have heard that the main argument in the Commission in order to reject our proposal is extremely heavy workload, because we are talking about between 115 and 120 thousand posts within the scope of the conflict of interest. My fellow Members, I would like to say to you that at the moment, the Commission, which is establishing a conflict of interest, consists of a cyphrom and I am speaking from 22 employees. I think that, with the future staff, maybe between 400 and 500 people, the new anti-corruption body may not be a problem for this body to assume the functions of the Commission, which is currently operating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u172	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Any other speeches? Come in, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u173	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Article 2 gives us reason to state that not only are we not taking a step forward, but we are taking a serious step back, retreating from a principle............................................................................... Why does this check have to be centralized? The colleagues before me explained well, perhaps they neglected to say that in general the Bulgarian policy in this field is moving towards centralization.Driving the local people to the center, as they have influence where they are and exert their influence over the authority that should control them. This is why specialized criminal courts are, therefore, the various specialized bodies so that these people can be removed from the environment on which they exercise control and pressure. This is where we do the exact opposite. I recall: we started to create a single anti-corruption body! Well, with this anti-corruption body, instead of one body deciding this, as it has been, from tomorrow it will be solved by a thousand organs. A thousand! We say it's unified, and we actually distribute it to 1,000 organs. Therefore, the proposal of fellow Members of the United Patriarchs is correct, only it is right in theory! Since 115 " 120 thousand people require serious work, serious capacity and you would be absolutely right, colleagues, if this was not added to all the files for confiscation of the property that are tens of thousands, some of which require labor for years because they are of quite high factual and legal value. You must add to this the tens of thousands of declarations that will need to be checked by this authority. To this you must add its operational activity, which requires specific preparation and material provision. This thing is not going to happen to 400 people. 500 people. It's not gonna happen at all!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u174	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. We're closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the proposal by the MPs Christian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev - the Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 144 MPs: 68 against 26, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. [[Heckling]] Revoting? Please make an offer to re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u175	Mr. Chairman, I am doing a re-voting procedure, as colleagues are still entering the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u176	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. I would like to rethink the proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev - the Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 144 MPs: 64, against 32, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 2 which the Commission supports. Vote 151 MPs: for 86, against 44, abstention 21. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under art. 3? an importer text and a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u178	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u179	Mr. Chairman, we support our proposal. The proposal has not been withdrawn here in the Chamber. However, I will propose that the vote on our proposal be postponed until the vote on art. 82 and the next of the entire Chapter 9th, because when we adopt our proposal, it makes sense to vote on these proposals. There's a few of them. If our proposal to drop Chapter 9 is rejected, then I will withdraw the proposals thus made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u180	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As regards the definition of the problem of corruption, it is done in the current Law in art. 3, I will not read it to you in detail so that we do not waste time, but the definition of corruption under art. 3 is only an act or omission in direct intent for the purpose of extracting a benefit of material or intangible, but it is not corruption when it is done for the purpose of harming someone's property or non-material law or protected by law interest, nor in carrying out it in direct intent, negligence or negligence. These gaps in the definition give us reason that the problem has not been studied in depth and comprehensive, so there is no way to support art. 3 of this Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u182	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u183	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The definition that we are offered for corruption is a mix between two existing definitions of criminal groups in our Penal Code. It's about art. 301, which arranges the bribe, and art. 387, which we can generally say governs abuse of power. By definition, we can argue whether it is good and whether there can be no better, but here the more important is this: nothing follows from the fact that a particular act falls or does not fall into this definition. It stands in this Law in art. Three, but it has nothing to do with him. If, for example, someone is charged with an act which does not fall under this definition, they will be prosecuted, processed and worked by the Commission in the same way as if it were against someone whose act falls within. This definition is glued, it is a patch that should simply justify the existence of countering corruption in the title itself. It is no coincidence that you may look further, but you will not find the word "Corruption" or elements of this definition in any text, except for some titles, of some markers, labels. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to this Commission's persecution against you. There may be confiscation of property, but this is in no way affected by the fact that the primary cause of this investigation is something that meets or does not correspond to the definition given in this Law. It's completely unnecessary and pointless. And it proves that this Law simply does not deal with the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u184	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Any lines to the statement? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The attempt to define what is corruption in art. 3 again shows that there is virtually no philosophy of this Law. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 1 It is clearly written that corruption within the meaning of this Law exists when, as a result of the high public office held, the person abuses power and so on. Dear MPs, not every abuse of power is corruption. Abuse of power can also constitute a composition of other types of crime. Next, how does countering corruption take place? Note...................................................................................... 9 that by referral to the competent authorities in the cases provided for in this Law. This is a great measure to combat corruption. This is a great measure for you to refer to the competent authorities to fight this corruption. It is obvious that in art. 3 sees the lack of any idea, any platform based precisely on the fight against corruption, because the very definition of corruption is not clear, is not clear. It, by the way, so far, has, I think, a single attempt at such a definition. This is the first attempt to define the concept of corruption in its sense, not in political legislation, in Bulgarian law. Apparently, this experience was also quite rudimentary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u186	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Any lines to the statement? I won't. Any other speeches? For the procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u187	Mr. President, in view of the clarification Mr. Hamid made with regard to the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, I fully join what he explained. That was the approach in the Commission. We postponed the vote on these proposals until we reached Chapter 9 and made the key vote. Since it was negative, the condition has come true, so colleagues have recorded that the proposal has been withdrawn, but I believe that it is necessary to read it every time and to specify that at this point, it is not supported by the Commission at this stage. So please give me a chance to read the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u188	Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u189	Proposal by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3, para. 2, p. 1 Drop the words and operational and search activities in accordance with Chapter Nine. (In the event of the drop of Chapter Ninth-Art. 82 and next.(See Annex II to Regulation (EC) This proposal was not supported by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u190	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? I won't. We're closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The proposal, as you have heard, has not been withdrawn and is not supported by the Commission. They voted 133 MPs: 11 against 58, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer. Please vote. Vote 127 MPs: 89, against 32, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u191	Article 4 supplier text, proposal from the National Representative Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 1, t. 2 the words "enhanced responsibility' shall be replaced by "enhanced control over'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 para. 2 is amended as The limitations of ownership provided for in this Law shall be applied to the extent necessary to achieve the objectives of the law, subject to strict respect for the right to the protection of the affected and the injured persons and to the prevention of the risk of injustice. In the application of the enforcement measures provided for in this law, the authorities are obliged to choose those of them which affect to the least extent the rights of persons if the objectives of the law are achieved. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u192	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, with this text in art. 3 and, to be exact, in para. 1, t. 7, namely, the protection of persons who have submitted an alert for violations, which really sounds petty to the ear. Good, but prepares in practice the further irresponsibility of those same persons, absolute, total irresponsibility, according to this Law, and introduces a practice, I can boldly say, the snitching, because these persons, according to the Law, will not tolerate any sanctions if they have submitted, knowing of such a false signal against someone. And against this man began a heavy one: going back, interfering in his personal life, of his family, at all not a very favorable procedure for him. Not to mention the coverage of this procedure in the public domain. And yet this person against whom the signal has been issued, which is ultimately false, invalid, the sender of the signal will be protected by this Law. Now that's stimulating snitching.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u194	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Any lines to the statement? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, the proposal made by us, along with the objectives of the Law, also focuses on the rights of the inspected person. The text is purely editorial, because further back in the Bill you will see a similar accent, not in the same text, so I think it belongs here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u196	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? There are no lines. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In respect of art. 4, especially on t. 9 The political neutrality, I express a concern that this body cannot be completely politically neutral, especially given that it will be appointed by the National Assembly and logically that this will come from the majority, which calls into question neutrality, especially political, juicy in point. 9. We doubt that the principles laid down in art. 4 sounds good, but practically no mechanisms have been developed to ensure their implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u198	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Any lines to the statement? I won't. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 115 MPs: 20, against 36, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer which the Commission supports. They voted 121 MPs: 82, against 31, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u199	Article 5 "Instruction text'. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5, para. The second sentence shall be created: In this proceedings, evidence shall be collected on a stand-alone basis with regard to the subject matter of the examination and the case. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u200	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, the reasons for this proposal are as follows. Although in the previous provisions we voted on and the existing restrictions in art. Art. 200 and art. 300 of the Civil Procedure Code, which is still in place, the courts are lending evidence of criminal proceedings or administrative proceedings to defendants, in particular with successfully appealed tax audit acts. With the argument that a decision on such proceedings entered into force, the courts opposed the conclusions of the revenue authorities on the proof of income of the Commission's conclusions on the revocation of illegally acquired property for non-compliance. We believe that with this proposal, this problem will be overcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u202	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? There are no lines. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u203	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Under art. 5 we are introduced an irrevocably presumption of the project, namely illegally acquired property, so that it places within the circle of illegally acquired property and specific property rights, the acquisition of which has not been established or has not been proven for reasons beyond the authority of the person. In this round are included without justification and all benefits which are derived from civil delicacies, but are certainly not the result of improper behaviour and they cannot be taken away in public order. That is why we will not support art. 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u204	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't. We're closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Christian Mitev and a group of Members of the National Assembly - the Commission does not support the text of the proposal. They voted 107 MPs: 10, against 34, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer which the Commission supports. They voted 105 MPs: 77, against 18, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman, we are already in art. 6 supposed text of the importer. Proposal by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1, t. 19 is added and the Director of the Directorate under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, (If Chapter 7 is maintained.) The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1, t. 24 After the words the Director of the Military Information Service and his REPs are added...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u206	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u207	I've read it already. Do you withdraw the next one?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u208	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u209	Mr. Chairman, and the next proposal has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u210	Both proposals are withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u211	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u212	Statements? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u213	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I won't take into account the content of the list that has been presented to us. In our understanding, the body had to focus on basic structural defining units, but this is also the list that has been produced by the previous action of the Public Property Act, with some modifications. However, I would like to draw attention to the following: this list is not at all the list on which the Commission will be able to work. The Commission will be able to work on the establishment and possible forfeiture of assets of absolutely all Bulgarian citizens on other grounds, namely on another list of criminal groups. So let us review this list well, but it should not be under the impression that these are the persons affected by the Commission's work. The new anti-corruption body for senior officials will work not only on senior officials, but on all. I hope it does not work primarily on everyone else and does not focus on the leaders of the Red Cross who are on this list.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u214	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u215	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm not gonna stop enumerating in art. 6 the scope of all those concerned, but I would like to draw attention to something, namely that there has been a dispute over the constitutionality of the personal identification of the crimes to be investigated by the Agency. One of the most important international signs of the rule of law is that of legal equality, which is expressed in a quote, namely the following: No person can be punished either physically or individually, except for a separate violation of the law established in the ordinary legal manner before ordinary courts. The National Assembly has already broken this principle in changing the conviction in the PPC and now we are doing it again a second time, and as it is said: to prepare the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u216	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Any lines to Mr. Baichev? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of Members of the National Assembly is not supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 13 against 47, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 6 which the Commission supports. They voted 93 MPs: 75, against 14, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u217	The Commission for Countering Corruption and for the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. Article 7 "Instruction text'. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7, para. 5 a new sentence is created: The territorial units shall establish departments with specialization carrying out checks in respect of the persons under art. 6................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u218	Statements? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, our proposal for a new sentence in para. 5 of art. 7 is motivated by the following. The current system for the electronic distribution of files is the same with regard to the workload of employees, without taking into account their position, qualifications and professional experience. The carrying out of checks on public figures should, in our view, be carried out by employees with certain life and professional experience, with the lack of knowledge and skills related to the specifics of the checks. Therefore, we propose that special departments be established in the territorial units where employees have the necessary specialization for carrying out the checks in respect of the persons under art. 6. We believe that this will achieve the objectives of the Law more adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u220	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any lines to the statement? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 96 MPs: 19 against 23, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the name of Chapter 2 in the text of the Member State which is responsible for supporting the text of the importer. They voted 104 MPs: for 89, against 10, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer of art. 7 which is supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 81 against 13, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u221	Article 8 "Instruction text'. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the word "five' is replaced by "nine' and the word "three' is replaced by "seven'. 2. In para. 5 the Vice-President and the Members shall be added after the word. 3. Alinea 6 is out. 4. Alinea 7 becomes al. 6 and in it the number 5. Alinea 8 becomes al. 7. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 3 the number 2. In para. The 4th number 3. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The President, the Vice-President and the Members of the Commission shall be elected by the National Assembly on proposals from Members of the National Assembly. 4. Alinea 6 is out, and the next one is renumbered. 5. In para. 7 the number The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 and 2, times c. 3 and 4 is withdrawn, and by t. Five doesn't support him. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 8, as in para. 3 and 4 is replaced by.......................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u222	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will state our reasons for the changes in art. 8 who refer to the number of members of the new Commission, the election by the National Assembly and the term of office. We believe that five Commissioners are extremely few and insufficient in numbers, such as composition, given the tasks and responsibilities assigned to them. Furthermore, since, at the moment, both the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and the Commission for the prevention and establishment of conflicts of interest, according to special laws, are composed of five members, it should not be the new body that will be entrusted not only with the withdrawal of illegally acquired property but also with checks for conflict of interest, to have fewer numbers with regard to increased requirements and increased powers. There's no way twice as many people can do twice as many tasks. As far as the election of the Commissioners is concerned, we consider it best to authorise the entire Chamber, not just the President of the Commission, to propose and elect by the National Assembly. The reasons of the importer to elect the President by the National Assembly are basically that Bulgaria is the Republic of Parliament and it is right that the President of this important body should be elected by the plenary staff of the National Assembly. We believe that this applies not only to the President, but also to the entire composition of a body entrusted with similar powers, such as the new Commission, and to many public expectations of quality work relating to countering and combating corruption. In this way, greater representativeness of this body will also be ensured. As regards the Commission's mandate, at the moment, the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and the Commission for the prevention and establishment of conflicts of interest have a five-year mandate, so we propose that the mandate be five years. We find no logic or justification for the term of office to be six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u224	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u225	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! When a few years ago, for the first time talked about such a law, a major criticism of it was that it would be attached to the Council of Ministers, i.e. to the executive power. Few people at the time imagined that a worse solution could be thought of than this. The only worse decision than to directly attach this body to the executive power that it is supposed to control is to bring it here to the High Political Authority of the Republic. This body was supposed to be isolated from politics, not put into its center. And there is no one who does not understand the simple fact that they will never be controlled, and how the same ones that we will see below can be removed at any time. It does not matter whether there are five or nine members of the Commission. It's a quota principle. How it will be distributed and how many people will fall into a separate group, it does not really matter, because when pawning this quota principle, the body is completely corrupted. A college body to deal with this work made sense when it was only dealing with withdrawals and something else. However, if it goes to fight corruption, there should be confidentiality that protects the efficiency of production, on the one hand, and protects against inadequate or malicious signals, on the other hand. This confidentiality will be lost as soon as you appoint this collegiate body, which will have to resolve everything with discussions. At this point, all of you, here, will be informed of what is coming, what is being prepared, and, God forbid, decide and walk on the other side of the stream, and you will be informed what should be decided and what is being prepared. The only text that has been changed between first and second readings, which the Commission has adopted to change, is that of the internship of the new President and members of the body. Nothing has changed since 40 hours perhaps discussions in the Commission, except how much to be the internship of the person to be appointed, of the people to be appointed. It will no longer be ten, it will be five o'clock the proposal belongs to colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The same proposal I think has been made by colleagues on the other side of the House. It makes us think, colleagues, that you already know who these people will be. If you know, say them, and don't fool us with the following texts, where some procedures and concepts are signed. Should it be five, or nine, because it will be busy? Dear colleagues, the work is not done by the superiors, it is done by the employees. And the employees are not well in this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u226	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines to Mr. Zarkov? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u227	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Chairman! Both in the proposer's proposal and in the proposal of the United Patriarchs, I do not find one thing.............................................................................................. If there are any requirements for the President and his alternates and these are other than high moral and professional qualities, to have higher legal or economic education, then there are no such requirements for ordinary members of the Commission. I will give you the example I have also set in the Commission. If a young man has graduated from the Academy of Art, has worked for ten years as a teacher, has a higher education; a young girl has completed the Conservatory of Music, has also worked for ten years as a singing teacher, has a higher education, should they also have the professional competence to carry out operational and search activities, to do analyses and to offer various methods of investigation under this Law. I think that they will not be well prepared enough and in this regard should be treated more seriously with the professional competence of the members, who, as fellow Member Krum Zarkov said, will carry out the designated search party or any activity, not be in a situation of dependence, subordination to their superiors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u228	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines to Mr. Baichev? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u229	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! If we imagine that the Bulgarian citizens were in front of us now and asked them what they meant by corruption on the high levels of power, they would undoubtedly direct their eyes to this House because it is the power that generates corruption. Perhaps this Law should fight corruption on the high levels of power, including in this House. [[Heckling]] I agree with you, colleagues on the left, on the right and in the center.... in all the spectra of political life should fight corruption. However, we are asking the fundamental question: how are we going to combat this corruption with the Commission that we have chosen from here. I take your view of a far more perfect system for the selection of members of an important body, for example, of the Constitutional Court....................................... the choice of members of an important body.....................................................of the various authorities at different times so that no one of different authorities to advocates......................................................................................................................................... This applies for an even stronger reason here, because this body can practically affect the legal rights and freedoms of an unlimited circle of Bulgarian citizens. We're talking wiretapping, we're talking about a man being disgraced, his reputation being ruined. Even if he comes out innocent, this man will never be able to clear his name. I pay attention to the fact that this is only part of the puzzle. We've changed the conviction in the PKK. You know that now everyone who gets charged by the specialized body will go to a special court. With the changes in the PPC, in this specialized court, remember that we have also changed the remuneration of the judges there.. they will take up to six wages more than their colleagues, that is, we have made one not special but a special court. The one who comes into this special order in my opinion will not be able to get out of there easily. Life is full of irony, and I'm sure it won't go as well as we expect in this room, and someone here will sooner or later regret opening this door.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u230	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Statements? You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u231	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Because the colleagues who spoke earlier drew attention to Parliament as the most political institution, said Mr. Zarkov. That's true, but they didn't mention who to appoint this body, who to choose it from? We also know from the public debate that there was a proposal of the BSP to be the President. I suppose that's what you mean by saying: Parliament is an extremely bad place to choose such a thing, there are in non-political places. Firstly, I do not agree that the presidential institution is not political. It is the most political institution in Bulgaria. It is so political that it does not even have operational powers. It is a high form of politics. I'm saying it perfectly well-meaningly. But why parliament? Because parliament can exercise control because there is also opposition in Parliament, and the opposition can also control, and the government can control such bodies purely legislatively so as not to overpower or fail to fulfil functions. Who in the presidency will control one such body? Which opposition? Is there opposition in the presidency first? (Replyes: There is.) I hear that there is, but perhaps you know better. Will the vice president control the authority appointed by the president? That's logic. You're talking about quotas. This is a rude talk about quotas, but even if there are quotas, it means that there is an opposition quota, there will be an opposition man who will be watching from within what is happening. If he's in trouble, he could report it. Of course parliament is much better, otherwise people would say that in parliament everyone is corrupt and they will make an anti-corruption body. Well, parliament passes laws every day. By the same logic, let's relax him if we put some citizens here and they say we're all corrupt, what are we doing here?! Then it's better to be without parliament. If he can't choose such an organ, can't control it, what's the point?! Let's try one step at a time to deal with this problem. We do not expect a revolution to take place with the adoption of this Law, but we do not believe that you can propose a revolution, given that you have proposed an authority that goes beyond the current Constitution without proposing constitutional changes. You should have proposed constitutional changes first to see if the Constitution could change and then propose such radical proposals. Otherwise, we'll think it's just some press conference. You've been wondering what to come up with to hold a press conference next Tuesday, and you've come up with a plan for the president to appoint him. The truth is, the current president, with all due respect to him, hasn't been able to appoint a press director for a year now. Let him appoint, first, the director of the press center, then we'll give him the anti-corruption authority to appoint, eventually. [[speaking indistinctly]] , after a change in the Constitution. Propose the amendment to the Constitution! That's serious behavior. I think you wanted this Law not to be passed, and so you wanted the privatisation not to be considered veto. Everything was just like that, right: it's not gonna end, let's not do it. If we say so about everything, we better go on vacation all year round and get together, like parliament before 9 September, two weeks a year. Then what's the point? Therefore, I call on you: let us have a constructive approach, not to deal with such extreme expressions in relation to the National Assembly, because this National Assembly is the most representative Bulgarian institution. It is directly elected by the people, the people have said their word who is in the opposition, who is in the government and exactly this body, which represents all Bulgarian citizens, can control one such institution. Thank you. [[Applause from "GERB".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u232	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. A line? You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u233	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bikov, this is not about the question: is it a parliamentary republic or what parliament is. You understand it perfectly, but I don't think you understand very well what this Law and this type of law are about. That is why it is written and said that it is independent and must be independent not because it will be clinically isolated from all authorities and so on, but because it is about objective prerequisites which it must impose on or has a conflict of interest, or does not have; either there is evidence of corruption, or there is no; or there is property which is illegally acquired or not. This body should judge only on the basis of evidence and not on the basis of government and opposition, not on the basis that there were two members of the government there and would rather look on one side and the opposition on the other. If we follow this logic, let the parliament choose the judges, let the parliament choose everything. The Parliamentary Republic is too important to serve any sauce. As for the President, you rejected our request, it is not unconstitutional, you may find it inappropriate, but it is not unconstitutional. There are other ways. There is a judiciary, but in order to go to the judiciary, we must first see the functions of this body. The functions of this body were then to be investigated. Only that you are proposing an administrative structure to be put under control, not in the sense that you say and which is written every law by means of a report, once a year and a debate, but in constant control, of control that controls not whether it complies with the law, but how it respects the law. That's what the big difference is, and you understand it very well. Wait for two more paragraphs to see how this President can be replaced.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u234	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Another line? Mr. Popov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u235	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bikov, when we talk about corruption, it inevitably follows power. We can't separate corruption from power. They are always contained in the same sentence. In a parliamentary republic such as Bulgaria, where is the power, dear Mr. Bikov? Isn't she in the majority of parliament, respectively, in the Council of Ministers? What you offer here in art. 8, clearly and categorically in para. 5 and para. 6 says that the majority elects the chairman of this corruption body, and he proposes its vice-presidents, who will also be elected by this same majority. It is clear that you choose it. You have elected the Council of Ministers and this same body should then monitor corruption the Council of Ministers because there is power, there are opportunities for corruption, not in the Presidency. We're not a presidential republic or a monarchy yet. We are a parliamentary republic, the government comes here from the National Assembly and, respectively, the majority of this National Assembly, which gives power to the Council of Ministers. That is why you have absolutely no thesis and no basis on which to rest these claims of yours. Because this is what you say: we will not fight corruption, because we will appoint this body and it will follow us.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u236	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Third line? I won't. Right on the back, Mr. Bikov? You're denying the right to a duvet. Any other speeches? Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u237	Dear Bulgarian citizens! Today, the ruling by GERB and the United patriots are adopting the Law on Countering Corruption, in which corruption is not a crime. Just so you know! Maybe Mareshki's golden finger will solve the issue, but today is imitating an action to combat corruption, because in this Law it is not a crime, but an administrative violation. This legislative activity today is a complete imitation of the fight against corruption, because the ruling majority, regardless of which party it is, will choose the people who will control it and release them in a way that he finds and when he finds it well. Second reason to argue that this is not a Law on Countering Corruption, but a Law on Protection of Corruption. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u238	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Any lines to Mrs. Ninova? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 122 MPs: 16 against 44, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs in the part which is not supported by the Commission, and that is that. 5. They voted 133 MPs: 24, against 77, abstentioned 32. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 8 with the amendment proposed by the Commission. They voted 133 MPs: 81, against 38, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kirilov, please continue with the presentation of the draft text.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 9 "Instruction text'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9. Article 10 supposed text of an importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10. Article 11 "Instruction text'. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev. [[Heckling]] The coworkers are pulling him out. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11. Article 12 "Instruction text'. Proposal by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1 the words "90 percent of the remuneration of the President of the National Assembly" shall be replaced by the remuneration of the Chair of a parliamentary committee. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u240	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u241	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 a procedure is provided for to be chosen by the new members. It is the procedure which has been copied by the Law on the Judiciary in relation to the election of a member of the Supreme Judicial Council. It's curious when you copy laws like that, you don't think much, you don't think much. It is intended to provide a concept of what these people will do when they go there for a certain time. But what will these people do there when they go there is written in the Law and they are in 95% of the cases in bound competence and should simply judge whether there are grounds and facts. This is not a political body that will be able to develop a concept for the development of some system, as it is in the SJC. But it's rather anecdotal, because this text does not think anyone seriously will be applied anyway. What is not anecdotal at all is in art. 12 The reasons for the suspension of the President's authority in advance. This President, who will be appointed by the National Assembly, will also be able to be removed from the National Assembly at any time, and in what conditions? As you can see, in para. 3 is written that "al." 1, t. 7 In the event of a serious infringement or systematic failure to comply with the duties, the member of the committee shall be terminated. Who do you think determines whether the newly appointed chairman is performing his duties? Parliament. If the President considers that any Commissioner does not fulfil his duties, he shall refer to Parliament and we here... The majority decides. The majority that appointed the same chairman. If Members of the Commission decide that the President does not fulfil their duties, they shall write to Parliament and again we here, i.e. this majority, shall remove him from office. But even this was not enough to convince you that you would hold it well, because a procedure was invented for the early release of the grounds at the request of one fifth of the MPs. At any given moment, on every occasion 48 people from here call him this man and cause a debate about his removal or cause guarantees that he will comply with their will. There is no such text in other such organs! If you show me such a text about such a type of impeachment, provoked by the National Assembly of an executive authority, which is not a minister well. [[Reply from the National Representative Plamen Manushev.]] The opposition may be required, General. It is good that you are doing this line, but it is not right for MPs, whatever they are, to be able to ask for the removal of one. Yeah, he's gonna press charges against one of the opposition, and the opposition is gonna collect signatures to ask for his head. He's gonna press charges against one of the government, and they're gonna ask him... And for that reason, he'll never ask anyone for anything. Or he'll ask purposefully, knowing there's a majority in parliament that supports him. It politicizes him to the limit. And ultimately, the control of the authority of this Agency is not the National Assembly. He must be the court. There you have to decide whether this body is doing a good job or not. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u242	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Before I give you the floor of speech, Mr. Popov, please congratulate a group of students from Cyril and Methodius Primary School, the town of Samokov, the left balcony. [[Applause.]] Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Popov, to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What my colleague Zarkov shared, I fully agree, but the same nonsense, as they say, is in the next one in point eight. The Commission's powers shall be terminated in advance by the National Assembly upon the entry into force of an act establishing a conflict of interest under Chapter Eight. Well, who established this act? This is ridiculous! The Commission itself must establish an act to release a member, the Member against whom a conflict of interest is established, to make that act, the National Assembly, if it is the appointing authority. Who is in practice establishing this act when you are infiltrating the Commission for Conflict of Interest in this mega-organ and he must control himself in order to be released early? This is just another legal nonsense in this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u244	Thank you, Mr. Popov. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u245	Colleagues, I ask that you really pay attention to the text on the early release of the President of the Commission. With one fifth of the MPs, any subsequent majority may initiate and implement the replacement of this independent super body. Every next one. With 48 deputies will initiate it and then replace it. In order for the body to be independent, we must guarantee it with the standards we adopt. So in art. 11, para. 5 we create an opportunity quite real and affordable. And they did right by my colleagues an analogy with the supreme judges, because we choose the authority that elects them the Supreme Judicial Council, but we do not have the right to call them here, to take account of them and to release them. Every next majority. By adopting this norm, you are opening up the path precisely to the political change of the President of the Commission by every next majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u246	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Any lines to Mr. Milkov? Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate. Before I put to the vote the texts of art. 9 to 11, I will put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 140 MPs: 13 against 89, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the texts of art. Art. 9, Art. Art. 10, art. Article 11 12 which are supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. 135 MPs voted: 97 against 37, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. Mr. Kirilov, shall we continue with another text, or shall we stop there?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u247	Under art. There is a proposal from the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 3 a t. One and two doesn't support it. I present the unsupported part: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 13 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1: (a) point 2 shall be deleted; (when Chapter 7 is withdrawn) (b) c. 10 the words supplied under this law shall be contained in a separate item. 11, and the next points are renumbered. 2. In para. 3 after the words................................................................................................ 1, t. The Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union have held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 13: Art. 13. (1) The Commission shall: 1. carrying out preventive activities in accordance with Chapter Four; 2. collect, analyse and verify information on or on information on corruption of persons holding senior public positions; 3. perform verification and analysis of the declarations of property and interests of persons holding senior public positions; 4. establish a conflict of interest of persons holding senior public positions; hear or require the provision of information regarding checks relating to the establishment of conflicts of interest; 5. verify alerts concerning the incompatibility declarations of persons holding senior public positions and refer the body of choice or appointment to take appropriate action; 6. carry out verification of the property status, adopt a decision to extend the verification in the cases provided for by the Law and decisions to terminate the verification; 7. initiates proceedings for the revocation of illegally acquired property, which includes the submission to the court of a request for precautionary measures and a claim for revocation for the benefit of the State of illegally acquired property; 8. refusing to initiate proceedings for the revocation of illegally acquired property; 9. terminate the check referred to in Article 9. 107, para. 2 or extend its period; 10. terminate proceedings for the revocation of illegally acquired property and enter into agreements under this Law; 11. adopt rules for carrying out the integrity checks of the Commission's staff and organise their conduct; approves samples of the declarations referred to in Article 12. 35, para. 1, t. 2 and 4; 13. exercise other powers provided for by law. (2) The decisions of the Commission shall be adopted by a majority of more than half of all Members and shall be reasoned. The reasons shall state the facts, the evidence on the basis of which they were established and the legal conclusions drawn. (3) The decisions of the Commission under para. 1, t. 4 and the motivated refusals under para. 1, t. 8 shall be published immediately on the Commission's website, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. (4) The Commission shall publish on its website all judgments of the Court of Justice in the cases in which it participates, including those in force and subject to appeal, as well as the definitions of termination of proceedings, including those not in force. (5) The decisions of the Commission under para. 1, t. 6-10 is not subject to appeal. (6) A protocol shall be kept for the meetings of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u248	Colleagues, it may be appropriate to continue working time for the vote on the text of art. Thirteen, so we don't go outside the box. Are there any statements under art. 13?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u249	Procedure, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u250	Procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u251	I am proposing an extension of plenary time until the conclusion of art. 13 by vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u252	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I shall put to the vote the proposal to extend the meeting until the text of Article 1 is voted on. 13. 135 MPs voted: 129, against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Statements on the text of art. 13?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u253	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 has something In para. 1, t. 6 The procedural actions which the Commission may take and carry out against the violator are listed. What I would like to draw your attention to is this. This text violates fundamental constitutional rights, namely the right to protection and the right to a fair trial, as these procedural actions cannot be appealed to any judicial authority or by any administrative order, under the APC, for example.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u254	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u255	Then I would like to add that this gives an opportunity for a professional victory of the control body and because Mr. Kirilov intervenes, I do not see any logical or legal explanations that are codifying in this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u256	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines to Mr. Baichev? [[Replications of rapporteur Daniel Kirilov.]] You have the floor for a line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u257	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It's the opposite, mate. Firstly, these powers concern internal decisions of the Commission concerning the fate of the verification and judicial review is mandatory. Because the end of all our work is in court, but you can't appeal to this Commission's internal decisions. I won't! The final appeal is final.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u258	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. A hole? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u259	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, here again comes out the lack of strategy really in this Anti-Corruption Act. Because what are we told here? First, on the one hand, functions of two different organs are being mixed. One is the establishment of a conflict of interest of persons holding senior and public positions, etc. 7 as regards the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, the so-called civil debt. Mix functions, mix orthogeneous facts, mix the results of these checks, which will eventually lead to a large mouse-mash in this mega-organ. And what does he do? Collects, analyses and possibly, if he considers that there is any crime or act of this nature, he will hand over to the prosecution, which will once again have to investigate and lead the entire criminal trial. Yes, but these authorities also have the same powers at this time when they carry out their activities. You did not have to mix them and unite them, because there is an internal contradiction in the very structuring of these bodies, in the objectives with which they are created, in terms of which public relations they control. Now you're uniting them into a mega-organ that will actually mingle responsibility, mingle their functions, and that won't lead to anything positive in the fight against corruption. Yes, you are!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-14.u260	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Any lines to Mr. Popov? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. We vote under art. 13 first the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs in this part, which is not supported by the Commission, and that is that. 1 and 2. They voted 128 MPs: 12, against 73, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. We shall vote on the wording of art. 13 in the version proposed by the Commission. 125 MPs voted: 97 against 28, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Members of Parliament, before closing the meeting, parliamentary control announcements on 15 December 2017, Friday: 1. Debates on the inquiry by MP Rumen Gechev to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on the state debt. 2. Questions and questions: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will answer a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev, Georgi Svilenski and Christian Vigenin. - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer one question from the MP Dora Yankova. - The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer five questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Violeta Zheleva and Kristina Sidorova; Georgi Gokov, three questions; and Todor Baychev. - The Minister of Interior Valentin Radev will answer two questions from the National Representative Todor Bajchev. - The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer two questions from the MPs Aleksandar Paunov; and Teodora Georgieva and one question from the National Representative Aleksandar Paunov. - The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova. - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer seven questions from the MPs: Georgi Stoilov; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Svetla Bachvarova; Lubomir Bonev; Stanislav Stanilov; Svetla Bachvarova and Chavdar Velinov; and Violeta Jeleva and Svetla Bachvarova. - The Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will answer 4 questions from the MPs Todor Baychev two questions; Kristina Sidorova and Nadia Klisurska; and Krum Zarkov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Rumen Gechev; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to two questions with a written answer from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov of a question by the National Representative Rumen Gechev. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the MP Zhelyo Boychev to the Deputy Prime Minister of Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov; - two questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev; and Stoyan Mirchev and Hristo Prodanov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. The next meeting, honourable Members, is on 15 December at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
