ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! Registration mode. There's no quorum. After 15 minutes of experience. 9:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u2	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Registration mode. There's no quorum at 9:30. 3rd attempt. Discovered at 9:33 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u3	Registration mode, final attempt. There's a quorum. [[Ringing. Loud noise, cheer and applause.]] Thank you, colleagues! You've given me an opportunity to make an announcement. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, in relation to the disciplinary measure imposed by the National Representative Anton Kutev on the grounds of art. 162, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly during the plenary session on 15 November 2017 I inform you of the following: After reviewing the express transcript from the meeting, I change the disciplinary measure imposed on the National Representative Anton Kutev, by the removal from two meetings. The reason for this is that the composition of art. 161, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Quaestors can invite Mr. Kutev to today's session. We continue with the bill that we started yesterday, and it is: LAW FOR CONCESSIONS "Second vote." "Department II" "Performance of the concession contract." This is art. 125. Who's gonna report it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! "Department II" "Performance of the concession contract." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 125. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 126. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 127. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 128.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u5	Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'd like a roll call procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u7	Your request is admissible before the vote. Name check: Yavor Rumenov Bojankov - absent Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yulian Mihailov Papasimov - here Julian Krastev Angelov - here Chavdar Yordanov Velinov - absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov - absent Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Halil Recepov Letifov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Thomas Nikolov Tomov - absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov - here Todor Baychev - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Teodora Atanasova Halacheva - absent Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Tanya Todorova Petrova - here Tanner Mehmed Ali - absent Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stefan Apostolicov - here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov - absent Spas Yanev Panchev - absent Spas Georgiev Gurnevski - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Slavcho Georgiev Velkov - absent Slavi Dichev Netzov - here Simeon Christov Simeonov - absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov - here Sergey Manushov Kichikov - absent Sevim Ismail Ali - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Rumen Petrov Genov - here Rumen Nikolov Georgiev - absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva - here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - here Plamen Trifonov Hristov - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Boykov Vitanov - absent Pencho Plamenov Milkov - absent Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Nikolay Asenov Tishev - absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov - absent Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - absent Kristina Maximova Sidorova - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska - here Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Apostolicov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - absent Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - absent Ilian Angelov Timchev - absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Kirov Genov - absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivaylo Lubenov Konstantinov - here Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Errol Osman Mehmed - absent Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - absent Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - absent Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Donka Dimova Simeonova - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - absent Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev - here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - absent Desislava Jekova Taneva - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - here Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Evdokiev Markov - here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - absent Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - absent Galya Stoyanova Vassileva - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva - absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - absent Vasil Tsvetkov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - absent Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Bjurhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Bogdan Emilov Botsev - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - absent Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Andon Dimov Donchev - here Angel Iliev Isaev - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddi - absent Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Dimitrov Panov - absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - here Adlen Shukri Shevked, absent. Yavor Notev is additionally recorded. We have a quorum. We're continuing the hearing. We vote on the name of Section II, Articles 125, 126, 127 and 128 on the Commission report. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The name of Section II and Articles 125 to 128 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u8	Under art. 129 The text of the importer, a proposal from the National Representative Pencho Milkov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 129: Art. 129. (1) In the performance of the concession contract, the concession holder shall keep analytical accounting for the services provided and for the other business activities included in the subject-matter of the contract. (2) The annual financial statement of the acquirer shall be subject to compulsory financial audit by a registered auditor under the Independent Financial Audit Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u9	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. Please vote art. 129 in the version of the Commission. This is where I say I'm not taking part in this vote. I will not take part in this vote because of a conflict of interest. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. Article 129 on the Commission report has been adopted. On behalf of the political party's parliamentary group, Volja. Here you go, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to raise an issue that will probably seem insignificant to you and to some even ridiculous. The amounts I'm going to talk about are nothing against the millions and billions that are distributed every day. At the beginning of October in Moldova was held another global meeting of Bulgarian media abroad organized by BTA. I will not dwell on the importance of such meetings for our communities around the world and for the media that reflect their problems, but also closely monitor what is happening in Bulgaria. My speech is about another "seven MPs had expressed a desire to participate in this meeting. In connection with the trip to Moldova, Parliament has spent 10 165 BGN. That's what airline tickets and hotel rooms cost everyone. In the end, it turned out that only I attended this forum as a guest from the National Assembly. The reason is not clear... Only BGN 1837 has been recovered from the costs. There's still about 7,000 left. Colleagues, I know that for some this amount is ridiculously small, but it is the money of the Bulgarian taxpayer and we have no right to waste even a penny, at least because this is how we show our attitude towards people and their funds. Moreover, this is the annual salary of a Bulgarian citizen. Mr. Chairman, I propose that the sum spent in vain be reimbursed by the Members who have expressed their participation and subsequently refused. We will thus give a clear sign that, as people's chosen ones, we care about every lev that Parliament spends and that we can be responsible for the costs that this institution makes for us. I strongly believe in the maxim that, as you treat the pennies, so do you treat the million. Let us show that we are reasonable and responsible people and not irresponsiblely spending taxpayers' money. Colleagues, I will finish with a paraphrased quote from the novel You are a people of the people. You won't eat people's money! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. I think what is happening today also explains why colleagues then acted in such a way. Let's keep going, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u12	Under art. 130 "Instruction text'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 130: Art. 130. (1) For the duration of the concession contract, the occurrence on grounds of exclusion shall not be permitted for both the concessionaire and the members of its management or supervisory body and for any person having the power to represent, to take decisions or to exercise control within those bodies. The condition applies to subcontractors as well as to third parties, where available. (2) The concessionary shall inform the concession holder of the occurrence on grounds of exclusion. The notification shall be made within 30 days of the occurrence of the grounds for exclusion or the receipt of information on the occurrence by the concession or by another person. (3) In the notification under para. 2 The concession holder shall specify the measures to be taken to address the consequences and to effectively prevent future cases of unlawful conduct and the time limit for taking the measures. The measures may be personnel and organisational such as: breaking any ties with persons or organisations involved in irregular events; measures for personnel reorganization; implementation of reporting and control systems; establishment of an internal audit structure to monitor compliance, as well as adoption of internal rules for seeking liability and compensation. (4) Where a reason for exclusion has occurred for a sub-contractor, the concessionaire shall terminate the sub-contract. In this case, in the notification under para. 2 The concession holder shall specify the period within which it will terminate the sub-contract and the way in which the activities under the terminated contract will continue to be carried out by the concession holder or through the award of a new sub-contractor. (5) Where a reason for exclusion has occurred for a third party, the concessionaire shall not be entitled to use its resources. In this case, in the notification under para. 2 The concession holder shall indicate a new person and provide evidence that his resources will be available for the remaining term of the concession, such as art. 63, para. 4 shall apply accordingly. The concessionaire may not indicate a new third party if with the notification under para. 2 provide evidence that it complies with the requirements for professional or technical abilities and/or financial and economic situation. The Commission shall, pursuant to Articles 131 and 132, support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u13	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote Articles 130 to 132, including, on the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. Articles 130, 131 and 132 of the Report have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u14	"Department III." "Department III." "Department III." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 133: Art. 133. (1) By way of the concession contract, the concessionaire shall assign to a person designated in the application or to a person chosen after the concession contract has been concluded, the performance of specific activities of the subject-matter of the concession. (2) A sub-contract may be concluded only with a person for whom there is no grounds for exclusion and which fulfils the applicable conditions for participation, where those are specified in the notice of initiation. (3) The concessionaire may conclude concession contracts for the share of the concession and for the types of activities of its subject-matter which he has indicated in the application. (4) The concessioner shall be responsible jointly with the sub-contractor for the implementation of the activities entrusted with the sub-contract. The Commission shall support the text of the importer under Articles 134 and 135.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u15	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of Section ΙΙΙΙ and the text of Articles 133, 134 and 135, supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The name of the section and Articles 133 to 135 including the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u16	"Section IV - Amendment of the concession contract." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 136. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 137. Under art. 138 has a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 138 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the contract may be amended after the words... including the duration of the 2. The creation of para. 5. In determining the extension of the duration of the concession above the prescribed maximum period, the rules of art shall apply. 34. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 138: Art. 138. (1) Where, after the conclusion of the concession contract, a circumstance arises which the concession could not have foreseen when the concession was awarded and which requires an amendment of the concession contract, the contract may be amended if this does not lead to a change of the overall nature of the concession, to an increase of the initial value of the concession by more than 50 percent and to an extension of the concession period by more than one third of the specified term. (2) The increase to 50 percent by para. 1 shall be calculated in relation to the initial value of the concession without accumulation of the values of previous changes, irrespective of their basis. (3) Amendment of the concession contract which does not meet the conditions under para. One is null and void. (4) In the case of a concession for services relating to the activities under Annex No 2, the concession contract may be amended regardless of the value of the change if the modification does not lead to an amendment of the overall nature of the concession.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u17	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the MP Stanislav Ivanov under art. 138. Vote 88 MPs: 13 against 13, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the name of Section ΙV and Articles 136 to 138 including, supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The name of Section ΙV and Articles 136 to 138, including, have been adopted under the Commission Report. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u18	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am doing a procedure by which I withdraw all the proposals I have made that have not been adopted by the Commission, as they are systematically reflected in other articles of this Law. For this reason, I withdraw all my proposals and unsupported proposals until the end of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Proceed, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u20	Thank you, Madam President. And thank you to Mr. Ivanov. Under art. 139 has a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported, and he withdrew it just now. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 139: Art. 139. (1) The concession contract may also be amended where, after the conclusion of the contract, there is a need to carry out additional works and/or additional services by the concessionaire which are not provided for by a review clause and cannot be awarded to another concessionaire for economic or technical reasons arising from the requirements of interchangeability or interoperability with the concession contract works and/or services, or because of a significant difficulty or substantial duplication of costs for the concession to which the award of another concession would lead. (2) In addition, the works awarded and/or services may not result in an increase of more than 50 per cent of the initial value of the concession. Article 138, para. 2 shall apply accordingly. (3) In the cases under para. 1 the modification of the concession contract may also include an extension of the concession period determined by the contract, subject to the condition of art. 34, para. 1 sentence, second sentence. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 140. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 141. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 142. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 143.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u21	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote Members 139 to 143 including those supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. Articles 139 to 143, including, have been adopted under the Commission report. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u22	"Department V.. End of concession The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 144.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u23	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote the name of Section V and Art. 144 by importer supported by the Commission. Voting mode. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The name of Section V and Article 144 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u24	Under art. 145 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 145, para. 2, p. 1 after the word "strengthening" is placed a comma and the text to the end is dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 145.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u25	Statements? I can't see. Firstly, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 94 MPs: for 6, against 59, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 145 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. Article 145 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u26	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for art. 146, 147, 148 and 149, the name of Section VΙ, Article 150, under which a proposal was received by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 150, as in para. 1 the words "building" or "building" shall be replaced by "building" or "building." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 151, Art. 152.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u27	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote Articles 146, 147, 148 and 149, the name of Section VΙ and Articles 150, 151 and 152, supported by the Commission. Voting mode. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. Articles 146 to 149 including the name of Section VΙ and Articles 150 to 152 have been adopted on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u28	Under art. 153 has a proposal from the MPs Margarita Nikolova and Nikolay Alexandrov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 153 the following amendments are made: 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: In case of early termination of the concession contract for the reason for which the concession holder is responsible, outside the cases under art. 146, para. 1, t. 2 et c. 3, the concession owes to the concessionaire compensation in the amount of the concessionaire's non-refundable costs for investments in the concession site, reduced by the amount corresponding to the rate of return fixed by the financial and economic model for the concessionaire for the entire duration of the contract, but not more than the market value of the investments made by the concessionaire in the concession site at the date of termination of the contract, where the entity is owned by the State, respectively, of the municipality. 2. In para. 5: The words.. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 3. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: In the event of early termination of the concession contract for the reason for which the concession holder is responsible, the concession holder does not owe compensation to the concession holder where the concession entity is owned by the concession holder or a third party. In this case, the concession holder owes the concession compensation to the amount of compensation recovered as a result of the operation of the concession entity's investment costs in the concession site received by the date of termination of the concession contract. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 153. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 154, Chapter V................................................................................................... 155, the name of Chapter VI, the name of Section I, for art. 156.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u29	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the unsupported proposal in art. 153 MPs Margarita Nikolova and Nikolay Alexandrov. Vote 88 MPs: 23, Against 5, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote Articles 153, 154, the name of Chapter V, art. 155, the name of Chapter VI, the name of Section I and art. 156, supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. Articles 153, 154, the name of Chapter V, art. 155, the name of Chapter VI, the name of Section I and art. 156 have been adopted under the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u30	Under art. 157 has a proposal from Daniel Kirilov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 157: Art. 157. (1) An appeal shall be lodged within 10 days of: 1. publication in the National concession register of the notice of initiation, respectively of the notice of amendment; 2. the notification or notification of the relevant decision, with the exception of the decision of the Committee on the exclusion of a participant in an open procedure, the time limit for the appeal on which the notification of the decision on the designation of a concessionaire starts, respectively, to terminate the procedure; 3. the knowledge of action or omission under art. 156, para. 3 and where the person has not been notified from the date on which the period for carrying out the relevant action has expired, but no later than the conclusion of the concession contract. (2) An appeal may be lodged by: 1. each person concerned in the cases under para. 1, t. 1; 2. any interested candidate and any interested participant in the cases under para. 1, t. 2 and 3. Article 158 is supported by the Commission. Article 159 is supported by the Commission. Article 160 is supported by the Commission. Article 161 is supported by the Commission. Article 162 is supported by the Commission. Article 163 is supported by the Commission. Supported by the Commission is the name of Section II, as well as the text of the importer for art. 164. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 165: Art. 165. (1) A request for suspension of the procedure for the designation of concessionaire shall be made at the same time as the submission of the complaint. The request shall be motivated, including by the application of relevant evidence. A request not made at the same time as the complaint shall not be dealt with. (2) The Commission for Protection of Competition shall rule on the request under para. 1 in closed session with a reasoned definition within 7 days of the initiation of the appeal, leaving the procedure suspended or disrespected the request. (3) The Commission for Protection of Competition shall rule on the request under para. 1 after assessing the possible consequences of suspension of the procedure for all interests which may be harmed, including the public interest and the national security and defence interests of the country, the life and health of citizens, the environment, protected areas, zones and objects and public order. The assessment shall be carried out on the basis of the claims made on the complaint, the reasons set out in the request under para. 1, the opinion of the concession, if any, and the evidence applied by the parties. (4) The Commission for Protection of Competition may not respect the request under para. 1 where the negative effects on all interests which may be affected outweigh the benefit of suspension. (5) The pronunciation of the request under para. 1 does not bind the KPC in the matter in substance and does not affect the applicant's other claims. (6) The definition under para. 2 shall be subject to appeal by a private appeal before a three-member panel of the Supreme Administrative Court within 5 days of its notification to the parties. The Court of Justice shall rule on the private appeal within 14 days of the initiation of the proceedings in closed session by order which shall be final. (7) The appeal of the definition under para. 2 shall not suspend proceedings under the appeal. (8) Where the complaint requests suspension of the procedure for the designation of concessionaire, the procedure shall cease until the entry into force of: 1. the definition by which the request for suspension is left without respect; 2. the order by which proceedings on the appeal are refused; 3. the decision on the complaint in the other cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u31	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote Articles 157 to 163, the name of Section II and Articles 164 and 165, supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. Articles 157 to 163, the name of Section II and Articles 164 and 165 are adopted on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u32	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 166: Art. 166. (1) Where the complaint is against a decision to designate a concessionaire or a decision to terminate the procedure, which shall include a decision to conduct a new procedure for the designation of a concessionaire or to carry out a re-trial, with its opinion on the complaint under art. 160, para. 3 The concession may request prior enforcement of the contested decision. The request shall be motivated, including by the application of relevant evidence. A request which has been made after the expiry of the term under art. 160, para. Three, it's not under review. (2) The Commission for Protection of Competition shall rule on the request under para. 1 with a reasoned definition in closed session within three days of receipt of the request, allowing for prior execution or leaving the request without respect. Request by para. 1 which contains no reasoning shall be left unattended. (3) The Commission for Protection of Competition shall, exceptionally, allow for prior enforcement in order to ensure the life and health of citizens, to protect particularly important state or public interests, or where significant or difficult damage may follow from the delay of execution, including for the concession site or for the activity to be carried out by the concessionaire. (4) Pre-execution shall not be permitted where the request is justified by economic interests which result in disproportionate consequences, including costs resulting from a delay in the performance of the concession contract or from a new, respectively, re-procurement procedure for the designation of the concessionaire, change of the concessionaire or payment of benefits and/or other penalties. (5) The definition under para. 2 shall be subject to appeal by a private appeal before a three-member panel of the Supreme Administrative Court within 5 days of its notification to the parties. (6) The Court of Justice shall rule within 14 days of the initiation of the proceedings in closed session by order which shall be final. (7) The private complaint shall not suspend the proceedings of the complaint but shall suspend the prior implementation granted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 167. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 168, for art. 169, for art.170, for art. Article 171, for art. Article 172, for art. 173. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV and the text of the importer for art. 174 and 175. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 176: Art. 176. (1) The Commission for Protection of Competition shall decide on the liability for the expenses under the conditions and under the terms of art. 143 of the Administrative Procedure Code. (2) Within the period of appeal of the relevant act, the KPC, at the request of the parties, may supplement or amend the act in its part of the costs. (3) The Commission for Protection of Competition shall communicate to the other Party the request under para. 2 with an indication of a response within three days. (4) The definition of the request under para. 2 shall be ordered in closed session and served on the parties. The order may be appealed according to the order of art. 177, para. Art. 2, respectively 178, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 177: Art. 177. (1) The Commission for Protection of Competition shall, by definition, terminate the proceedings: 1. where the appeal is inadmissible; 2. where the applicant has died or the legal person has been terminated without a beneficiary; 3. in the event of withdrawal of the complaint. (2) The definition under para. 1 shall be subject to appeal under art. 167 before a three-member Chamber of the Supreme Administrative Court within 5 days of its notification to the Parties. The appeal shall stop the execution of the definition under para. 1. The Court of Justice shall rule within 14 days of the initiation of the proceedings in closed session by order which shall be final. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and shall propose an version for art. 178: Art. 178. (1) The decision of the KPC shall be subject to appeal before a three-member panel of the Supreme Administrative Court within 14 days of its notification to the parties. (2) The Supreme Administrative Court shall rule within one month of receipt of the appeal and its decision shall be final. (3) The terms and procedure of Chapter 12a of the Administrative Code shall apply to outstanding matters concerning the appeal proceedings before the Supreme Administrative Court. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VI.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u33	So far, because then there's a proposal that's not supported. Colleagues, speeches? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote Articles 166, 167, the name of Section III, Articles 168 to 173 including, the name of Section IV, Articles 174 to 177 including, the name of Section V, art. 178 and the name of Section VI supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 88 against 1, abstention 5. Articles 166, 167, the name of Section III, Articles 168 to 173, the name of Section IV, Articles 174 to 177, the name of Section V, art. 178 and the name of Section VI have been adopted under the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u34	Under art. 179 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 179, para. The following amendments shall be made: 1. 3 is amended as follows: "3." the time limit has been set in violation of art. 34, para. Five o'clock. 2. in t. 4 the words the maximum time limit shall be replaced by the time limit and shall be replaced by the maximum time limit. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 179: Art. 179. (1) A concession contract which is concluded is invalid: 1. without publication of a concession notice and, in the applicable cases, of a preliminary information notice in the European Union................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. without publication of a national publication in the Official Journal... in case of concession without cross-border interest; 3. contrary to the publication of the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union, respectively; 4. without a procedure for determining the concessionaire; 5. where, despite the suspension of the procedure for the designation of concessionaire, actions have been carried out under the procedure; 6. before the time limit for the conclusion of the contract starts. (2) The concession contract shall be invalid and where: 1. the concession is not included in the relevant action plan; 2. the procedure for determining the concessionaire has been opened without approval by the relevant authority; 3. the specific period is longer than the maximum period specified in the notice of initiation; 4. contain a review clause which includes an opportunity to extend the concession period beyond the estimated total duration of all eligible extensions referred to in the notice of initiation; 5. in the course of the procedure for determining the concessionaire the reason for its termination under art. 117, para. 2 sentence 2; 6. the content of the contract does not correspond to the minimum content defined in art. 122, para. 2, or contrary to another requirement of this law. (3) No claim may be brought for the declaration of invalidity of a concession contract concluded on the basis of an effective definition of the admission of pre-execution. (4) An application for a declaration of invalidity of a concession contract may bring any person concerned. (5) The request under para. 4 shall be filed under the Civil Procedure Code within two months of publication in the National concession register of the concession notice. (6) Where a concession award notice is not published, the claim shall be brought within two months of the recognition, but no later than one year from the conclusion of the concession contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u35	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 92 MPs: for 6, against 63, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 179, supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 83 against 1, abstention 10. Article 179 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u36	Before I move on to the reporting of art. 180, Madam President, please allow me in the form of a procedure to congratulate our guests from Razgrad who are on the balcony of the National Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u37	Welcome and have a good time in the National Assembly! Go on, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u38	Under art. 180 has a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 180: Art. 180. (1) Any economic operator having or having had an interest in carrying out a new procedure for determining the concessionaire may bring an action for invalidity of an additional agreement to amend a concession contract on the basis of art. 137, para. 6 or art. 138, para. 4 under the Civil Procedure Code. (2) The request under para. 1 shall be filed within two months of the publication of the notice amending the concession awarded in the national concession register. Where a notice has not been published, the action shall be brought within two months of the notification, but no later than one year from the conclusion of the supplementary agreement. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VII. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 181. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 182: Art. 182. Any person concerned who has suffered damage from a decision, act or omission of a public authority in carrying out the procedure for determining the concession holder may bring an action under the State and municipalities' liability law for damages. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VIII. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 183. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 184. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 185. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 186. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 187. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 188. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 189. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 190. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 191. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 192. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 193. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 194. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Ninth. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 195. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 196. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 197. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 198. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 199. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 200. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 201. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 202. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 203. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 204. "Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u39	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote art. 180, the name of Section VII, Articles 181, 182, the name of Section VIII, Articles 183, 184, the name of Chapter Seven, Articles 185 to 190, the name of Chapter Eight, Articles 191 to 194, the name of Chapter Ninth, Articles 195 to 204 and the name 90 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 6. With this and Articles 180, the name of Section VII, 181, 182, the name of Section VIII, Articles 183 and 184, the name of Chapter Seven, Articles 185 to 190 including, the name of Chapter Eight, Articles 191 to 194, the name of Chapter Ninth and Articles 195 to 204 plus the name of
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u40	A proposal was received from the MP Georgi Svilenski: In the Additional Provisions, § 1 t. 11 is amended as follows: "11." The postal services are services that include the collection, sorting, transport and delivery of postal items. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Desislava Atanasova in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, i.e. 1 the words "supplier' shall be replaced by "supplier service'.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u41	Colleagues, first of all, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski. Vote 94 MPs: 3 against 63, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 1, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 89, none, abstention 5. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u42	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u43	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the provisions supported by the Commission § 2, the name of the division "Transitional and final provisions', § 3 and § 4. Vote 94 MPs: 90, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 2, the term "Transitional and Final Provisions" (paragraphs 3 and 4) shall be adopted under the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u44	Under § 5, a proposal was received by the MP Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal has been made under § 5 by the MP Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 5: 1. In para. 1 at the end of the sentence shall be added the words......... without the right to extend................................................................................................................................................... 2. In para. The first sentence is amended in the following way: The provisions of this Law on the implementation, modification and termination of concession contracts shall apply to the concession contracts concluded until the entry into force of the Act, insofar as this does not conflict with those agreed with the contract. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The proposal was withdrawn in plenary. Proposal by the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. (1) The concession contracts concluded until the entry into force of this Act shall remain effective and shall be implemented in accordance with the conditions agreed therein. (2) The provisions of this Law concerning the amendment, including the term, and the termination of concession contracts shall apply to the contracts under para. 1. In the event of amendment of a contract under para. 1 shall be published a notice amending the concession awarded in accordance with art. 141, para. 3. (3) The consequences of the termination of the contracts under para. 1 shall be governed by the law applicable at the date of conclusion of the contract. (4) The provisions of this Law shall also apply to subcontractors of the contracts under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u45	Colleagues, speeches? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u46	Madam President, honourable Members! In § 5 of the "Transitional and Final Provisions', with the proposal that we of the "Volja' we have made, we aim to ensure that when a concession contract is concluded under the terms of the current Law, i.e. the old Law, there is no possibility that only its term will be extended. Assuming that we are currently voting on a new law which should comply with the European directive and, naturally, as a better one to replace the old one, it is logical to believe that certain concession contracts which have been concluded under the conditions of the old treaty and therefore their time limit is in line with those conditions should remain in force under those conditions and the same deadline. After yesterday we accepted changes in art. 34 of the bill that we are currently voting on, and there is an opportunity for a longer term under special laws, to conclude together with you that it is better when a concession contract is concluded on the basis of the new Law, that it can... a little longer became my sentence, so I will paraphrase to make it clearer. [[Heckling]] I don't know if I'm gonna start over, but I'm gonna go back to where I left off.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u47	Do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u48	The idea is that if we have a contract under the old Law, he should act with the term under the old Law. However, if we consider it to be a strategic site and it must be extended under the new Law, our proposal must have a new procedure fully in line with the conditions of the new Law and the time limits laid down therein. Therefore, my procedural proposal is in relation to the Commission's view to put to the vote an amendment in § 5 of the Commission's proposal, para. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. This is to be obliterated.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u49	Okay, it's editorial, I'll put it to the vote, Mr. Christov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u50	Dear President, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable colleague Hristov, honored guests! I take a line not to contradict, but to actually clarify what happened after we changed the deadline and fixed it in art. 34 In practice, both the new and the old regime have an identity. We maintain the operation of the contracts concluded under the old regime, that is, the period during which they were concluded under the old regime remains as it is. They cannot and will not be given the possibility of new extensions in the course of the new Law. That's what I'm saying about your proposal. 1, which we believe we have implemented in the Commission's editorials, as in para. 1 and para. 2. As regards the second proposal, the provisions of this Law on Implementation, Amendment, the termination of concession contracts apply to those concluded until entry into force. 1. I believe that although it is written that your proposal here is not supported, it is in practice fully reflected in the logic that we have laid down for the implementation and operation of the new Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Another line? I won't. Mr. Christov, the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u52	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I agree with you in part and therefore I did not propose as a procedure to put the proposals and our whole proposal to a separate vote. But given this exception, which we allowed yesterday for a term longer than the fixed one, as you said, in a special law, it became clear to everyone that it could be what it is in the special law, and it would be voted on, but it could be 35, 50, it could be 100 years. Then, in this situation, we already have an exception to the rule that you are saying, and therefore I have proposed a procedure for deletion including the time limit. In our view, such a case will arise, within which a period voted in a special law can be applied to concession contracts which have been concluded under the conditions of the old Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Mr. Kirilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u54	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a statement in order to continue with the clarification concerning the hypothesis..... we are going back to the basic text of art.......................................................................................... 34, para. 1 in relation to the possibility, which is in principle provided for by some other law, to set another deadline. If such a hypothesis arises, if such a case occurs, if another such law is adopted in the future. Yesterday I gave an example of the Law on Roads or the Law on Water Services is an action in the future. This action will in any event be within the scope of this Law and not of the latter. Paragraph 5, which we are commenting on now, concerns those contracts that are from the past, they are welded. We're rearranging them with this Law. There is no way in the past that such a contract could have been concluded under the future Road Law, for example, which would have a term, conditionally, I say 55 years, because in the past the term was maximum 35 years. Therefore, in this case, § 5 shall not apply. It only regulates the action of the welded ones. Again, in order to reassure all colleagues, if such a project arises, consider it to be carried out in the form of a concession, calculate from the preliminary analyses that this concession cannot be within the term of the basic Law, then it will be necessary by means of a brand new legislative act, for example, the Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act or the relevant law, then to adopt a special deadline. But this is a future conditional event and it is entirely conditional upon the decision of one of the following parliaments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote Mr. Hristov's unsupported proposal. They voted 93 MPs: 12, against 6, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the editorial amendment made by Mr. Hristov in § 5, para. 2 to be heard including the term. They voted 91 MPs: 11 against 12, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 5, which is supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 81 against 7, abstention 2. The proposal has been adopted, and with that, § 5 on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u56	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7 and § 8. Under § 9, proposals were received by Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs supported by the Commission. Proposal by Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal referred to in (a) and does not support it in (b) and (c) and (d) respectively. And it's: The following amendments shall be made in Transitional and Final Provisions: (b) c. 5 in the new content of art. 47a, para. 1 the words "Concession for construction, concession for service or concession for the use of' shall be replaced by "Concessions for'; c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) (d) c. 9... is A proposal came in from the MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports it and is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 10. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... The Water Act makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17a, para. 1 the words in the order of the law on the concessionaires shall be deleted. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The concession documents for mineral water extraction, as well as for water systems and water farm facilities, the public municipal property shall be determined: (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The concession contract defines the specific obligations of the concessionaire to ensure the general use of water and water sites and the existing water use rights in the water supply. (c) in para. 5 the word "Presents" is replaced by "Presents." 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 21 4 and 5 are 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: A concession for the extraction of mineral water, exclusive state ownership and public municipal property, shall be granted after the preparatory action and the conduct of a procedure. The procedure for the preparation and implementation of the procedure for granting the concession, as well as for the implementation, modification and termination of concession contracts for mineral water shall be determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers. For outstanding issues related to the strategic development and planning of concessions for mineral water extraction, monitoring, management and control, business financing and National concession register, the Law on concessions shall apply. (b) in para. 2 t. 4 is repealed; (c) in para. 4 the word "Pay" is replaced by "Award," the number "30" is replaced by "50" and the words "Accession law" shall be established, subject to the conditions and in accordance with art. 81 of the concession fee Act shall be replaced by the concession fee set up; (d) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: supposed to the concession under para. 1 is the mineral water from the mineral water field revealed with a specific water-based facility, along with the water-installed installation and the inner belt of its sanitary-security zone. (e) in para. 6, p. 1 the word "payment' is replaced by "reward'; (f) A new para shall be created. 8. By participating in the procedure under para. 1 is removed from the participant: 1. for whom is defined by the Law on concessions grounds for exclusion; 2. which does not meet the requirements for professional or technical capabilities laid down by the decision to initiate the procedure or the financial and economic situation of the participants. (g) in para. 9 the words of the Council of Ministers for the opening of a procedure for granting a State concession, respectively in the decision of the municipal council................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (h) paragraph 10 is amended as follows: The annual concession fee is due on the basis of the actual amount of mineral water used, but not less than 80 percent of the resource provided. (i) the creation of para. 12: A mineral water extraction concession shall be granted for up to 35 years. 5. Article 47a is amended as follows: Art. 47a. (1) A concession for construction, a concession for services or a concession for the use of water systems and facilities, including hydrotechnical, hydroelectric, hydromeliorative, water supply and sewerage systems and facilities, shall be awarded under the terms and conditions of the concession Act. (2) The complex water systems under which the competent public authorities are different shall be awarded as joint concessions. (3) The draft decision to initiate the procedure for determining concessionaires and the justification of the concession for water systems and facilities shall be agreed with the Minister for Environment and Water with regard to compliance with the existing river basin management plans and flood risk management plans. 6. Articles 47b and 47c are repealed. 7. In Chapter Six, the name "Section I', especially the right to take water and use of water systems and facilities, is deleted. 8. Articles 93, 94, 95, 96 and 97 are repealed. 9. Article 99 is repealed. 10. A new article shall be created. 102: Art. 102. (1) The procedure for granting a concession for mineral water extraction shall be opened by a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal of the Minister of Environment and Water, respectively by a decision of the Council of Bulgaria on a proposal of the mayor of the municipality. (2) With the decision under para. 1 shall be determined: 1. the object and object of the concession; 2. the maximum duration of the concession; 3. the starting date of the concession; 4. the conditions for the implementation of the concession; 5. the fundamental rights and obligations of the concession contract; 6. the conditions and/or prohibitions for the lease of the concession and for the provision of activities for the maintenance of the concession; 7. the type and amount of guarantees to fulfil the obligations under the concession contract and/or other collateral; 8. the payment terms and the amount of the concession fee, including: (a) the amount of the one-off concession fee due at the date of entry into force of the concession contract; (b) the mechanism for annually updating the concession fee; (c) the order of payment of the concession fee; (d) the maximum grace period during which the concession fee is exempted from the obligation to pay the concession fee annually where such provision is envisaged; 9. the conditions and timetable for the phase-out of the allocated resource; 10. requirements related to the national security and defence of the country; 11. the conditions for the protection of the environment, human health and protected areas, zones and sites; 12. the obligation of the concessionaire to insure for the duration of the concession on its own account and in favour of the concession holder's concession at the site of the concession; 13. the obligations of the concessionaire to build and maintain by its means of infrastructure and facilities for the public use of free resources mineral water not covered by the concession contract; 14. the circumstances of a factual or legal nature, the occurrence or modification of which may lead to a breach of the balance defined by the contract between benefits and risks to the concessionaire and the concession, as well as the consequences of an imbalance; 15. other requirements related to the nature of the concession. (3) The procedure shall end with a decision for the designation of concessionaires adopted by the Council of Ministers, respectively by the Council of Ministers. (4) The decisions under para. 1 and 3 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be subject to appeal within 14 days under the Administrative Procedure Code. (5) Within one month of the entry into force of the decision under para. 3 The Minister of Environment and Water, respectively the mayor of the municipality, concluded a concession contract with the participant in the procedure designated as concessionaire. (6) The provisions of the Commercial Law and the Law on Obligations and Contracts shall apply accordingly to outstanding matters concerning the conclusion, implementation, modification and termination of the concession contract for mineral water extraction. (7) Disputes concerning the conclusion, implementation, modification and termination of a concession contract for mineral water extraction shall be settled under the Civil Procedure Code. 11. In Chapter Six, Section II, art. 102a-102f is hereby repealed. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 194, para. 1, t. 4 the word "payment' is replaced by "reward'. 13. Article 195 is amended as follows: Art. 195. For the extraction of mineral water, the concession fee paid to the concession holder. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 the words "selects a water operator" shall be replaced by "sent representatives" to the committee which conducts the procedure for determining a (b) c. 6 the words the concession payment, if such is determined, or deleted from the concession payment. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 198d, t. 1 the words "or chooses a water operator under the Law of the concessionaires" shall be deleted. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 198d, para. 4 words from the concession payment or the concession payment shall be deleted. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 198p, para. 2 words under art. 46, para. 1 of the Fees Act shall be replaced by.. for the conduct of the designation
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u57	Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u58	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In this paragraph, as you yourself had the opportunity to see, key amendments to the Water Act have been proposed. These amendments to the Water Act are bound by the text in the Law, according to which concessions in respect of mineral water extraction remain in the old order. However, a letter was received from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works in the debate in the Committee on Second Reading, unfortunately very late on 1 November 2017. It refers to the cases in which a water service operator is concessionated in respect of which a water supply association has been formed. Colleagues from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Minister himself believe that an explicit regulation is required on this occasion to take account of this specificity. For this reason, I made the proposal in the Legal Committee, as the Minister had suggested in his letter. It was voted out. The vote was 10 votes and 10 votes against and abstentions. In other words, his proposal was not supported. This is how I allow myself from the stand to repeat the proposal as it is in the Minister's letter, specifying that it actually concerns point 14 of the text, as it was voted by the Commission and reflected in the Report. The proposal is in § 5 of the Transitional and Final Provisions concerning amendment and supplement to the Water Act to carry out the following changes: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 198c, para. 4 t. 1 the words "selects a water operator in accordance with the Law on concessionaires" shall be replaced by a decision taken as a representative of the concessionaires for the conduct of a procedure for the selection of a water operator in accordance with the Law on concessionaires. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 198c, para. 5 to create a new t. 7. "7." In the case of a concession award procedure for the selection of a water operator: (a) organise the procedure; (b) appoint the Committee on Art. 80 of the Law on concessions; (c) conclude a concession contract with the participant designated as concessionaire; (d) the concession in the relations arising in connection with the performance of the contract; (e) organise control over the implementation of the concession contract. 3. The current point 7 becomes point 8. Motives. According to the provisions of the Water Act, the management of the water systems is carried out by the water associations in which the state and one or more municipalities participate. Where the ownership of the water systems within the territory is distributed between the state and municipalities or between several municipalities, the role of associations is to establish a legal and technical link between the owners of water supply and sewerage systems and facilities and the person operating this property. This is imperative in view of the fact that the site of management is precisely the water infrastructure and is of complex ownership. It covers the so-called "special areas', which usually coincide with the borders of more than one municipality. In this situation, it is necessary to introduce a management model where a number of persons exercising the right to property are able to define a common will and decision with regard to the whole set of assets, including communicating with the water operator of the designated territory as one person. I won't be able to read the other motives since time is up. But, fellow Members, I present this proposal, which was made by this letter to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works of your judgement, with a view to supporting this proposal, we will probably create a regulation for the concessionation of the Water Associations. And if we decide that this proposal is premature and incomplete, then we will support the text as proposed, but with the clear awareness that we must finish this work at some point next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u59	Do you have a line or a statement, Mr. Dimitrov? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to make a statement on what Mr. Chairman said. This Bill was long awaited since the old one was a patch on a patch. He was submitted to the Council of Ministers. The Prime Minister has signed it and has been submitted to the Commission, where for a very long time almost two Parliaments have continued its examination. At the moment, the minister has thought that something had to be added, to redact the esteemed Prime Minister, I think it's a little late. All the correspondence that ministers or non-governmental organisations are conducting with the Legal Commission has nothing to do with the bill at issue today! Well, there might be another new letter that he released yesterday, and we didn't open it today and wait until all the ministers decide to speak after the Prime Minister and they will listen to them. I'm so sorry. If the honourable Minister has a proposal to make an order to bring him to the Council of Ministers, to protect him, as under this bill he has already made many proposals, to make a Law of Amendment and Supplement and to bring him in. No one would mind. But now here, right now, tell me, is this editing, is it an addition, a change of point, a comma or a number? But you see, because the Minister insisted very much... Well, do it in the Council of Ministers! We'd be grateful. To come to the Commission to explain it. That wasn't the procedure. There were two women who didn't know who had sent them and they were waving some papers. It was a letter. It's not right to write laws like that at the last minute. Otherwise, the proposal may be very good, very consistent, very timely, but I remember the words of Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev when he came to our Commission in the previous Parliament and said: "Lord, this law must be European, according to all norms. The old one can't work anymore. He's a patch on a patch. We have prepared a new one for everything. And the new guy, according to everything, turns out we're writing him letters right now. I don't think it's right for us to jump over and write the honourable Prime Minister here in a room with a procedure that doesn't exist in the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. A line, Mr. Kirilov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u62	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In the form of a line, I actually state that I am withdrawing the proposal as I read it. [[Applause from OP.]] However, I recall that it was discussed and voted in the Committee on Legal Affairs. It is obvious that the Minister of Regional Development will have to initiate a separate legislative procedure on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u64	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to express my gratitude to the President. He is as wise as ever. [[Cheerful excitement in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u65	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Hey, guys, do we have any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 6, 7 and 8, which are supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. Paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of the Commission Report have been adopted. Now we will vote § 9. Firstly, I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposals by Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of Parliament in the letters................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Vote 95 MPs: for 4, against 52, abstention 39. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote § 9 on the main text of Mr. Kirilov withdrew his proposal, supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 9 of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u66	The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... The order of Art. 118g, para. 1, t. 4 of the Water Act does not apply to water capture for hydropower plants which were put into operation on 9 August 2010. Proposal by the National Representative Daniel Kirilov under § 10. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In the Civil Procedure Code (abg., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73, para. 4 the words "one second amount of the inventory fee' shall be replaced by "one second amount'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 365, t. 2 the words "concession contract or public-private partnership contract' shall be replaced by "concession contract'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12, in c. 2 concerning Art. 43b, para. 5 the word "building' is replaced by "airport'. Under § 12, there is a proposal from Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In § 12, in the new, replacement text, the words "Concession for use" and the comma in front of them drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u67	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by Mrs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for § 12, which becomes § 13. They voted 86 MPs: for 7, against 61, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I now vote on the Commission's support: the creation of a new § 10 and paragraphs, with a new numbering, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 10, newly created and paragraphs 11 to 18 with the new numbering of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u68	According to § 18 there is a proposal from the MPs Vejdi Rashidov and Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In the Law on Cultural Heritage (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 3 t. 3 is canceled. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 1 t. 10 is amended as follows: ..10. performs the powers of concession in the award of concessions for real cultural values.. State property;.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 is created t. 3: "3." carry out the powers of concession in the award of concessions for real cultural values. (b) in para. 2 t. Two is canceled. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 81, para. 2, p. 4 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplied'. 5. Article 86 is amended as follows: Art. 86. (1) For the real cultural values of state and municipal property, a concession may be awarded under the terms and conditions of the Law on concessions and subject to the requirements of this Law. (2) In the award and execution of a concession for a real cultural property, the regimes for the preservation of the cultural property shall be observed, as well as the conditions for carrying out an integrated conservation. (3) Subject of concession may be one or more single or group cultural values or parts thereof. (4) The concession shall determine a concessional territory covering the territorial scope of the concession site in so far as the properties covered by this scope are state-owned, municipal property respectively. The site of the concession may also include a maintenance area which is a territory necessary to carry out the concession activities in so far as the properties included in the concession are state-owned, respectively municipal property. (5) The concession area and the area of the maintenance zone shall be determined with a detailed development plan, subject to the conservation regimes of the specific property. 6. Article 87 is amended as follows: Art. 87. (1) Construction of technical infrastructure, buildings or facilities on the concessional territory and/or on the maintenance area may be carried out in the case of a concession for a real cultural property. (2) Construction may be carried out only if it is compatible with the regimes for the conservation of the real cultural value concerned and is necessary for concession activities. (3) When the execution of the works is awarded by the concession, the concession shall be defined as a concession for construction and the concession shall determine the type and volume of the works and the requirements for its implementation. (4) Notwithstanding the subject-matter of the concession, in the performance of the concession contract, the concession holder may place on the concessionable territory and on the maintenance area movable objects related to the performance of the concession subject to the requirements of that law. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 88, in the text before t. 1 the word "supports" is replaced by "supplied." 8. Article 89 is amended as follows: Art. 89. (1) In carrying out the preparatory actions and in the committees for the conduct of a procedure for determining the concession holder for real cultural value participates at least one representative of NIKN, and when the site of the concession includes archaeological real cultural values and representative of the National Archaeological Institute and Museum at BAS (NAIM at BAS). (2) Procedure for determining the concession holder for a real cultural property shall be opened after a positive opinion on compliance with the requirements of this law by the Ministry of Culture, and for the archaeological real cultural values and by NAIM at BAS. The concession shall apply to the request for an opinion the justification of the concession. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2 the words "the territory of the concession property' are replaced by "the territory of concession'; (b) paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The concession shall be awarded for up to 20 years. Where the concession is for use, the concession period may be extended to 15 years if it is not established under the proper procedure that the obligations under the concession contract are not defaulted. Where the concession is for works or services, the modification of the concession contract, including the duration of the concession, may only be carried out under the terms and conditions of the concession Act and subject to the requirements of this Act. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 the word "supplied' is replaced by "rewarded' and the words "under the terms and conditions of art. 81 of the Fees and Fees Act are deleted; (b) in para. 3 the word "supplies' is replaced by "rewardes'.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u69	Statements? I can't see. Colleagues, I vote on the Commission's support § 18, which becomes § 19. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 19 "the new numbering' was adopted under the Commission Report. Colleagues, take a 30-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u70	You have the floor, dear Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u71	According to § 19 there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 22. Under § 22, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly in § 22, t. 1 to drop, and t. 2 "8" becomes pcs, respectively. 7. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 23. Under § 23, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly in § 23 t. Two out, and that's that. 3 becomes t. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 24. According to § 24 there is a proposal from the MPs Ilieva, Sabeva, Atanasova, Kirilov and Fikirliyska according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Iglika Subscribs in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, i.e. 2 is reflected in its systematic place in § 29, t. 1 and 6, and proposes the following version of § 24, which becomes § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Public Procurement Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) To be created t. 8a: Eight o'clock. services provided to the Bulgarian National Bank related to: (a) exchange of financial communications, communication and maintenance of systems for the exchange of financial communications and related licences and services; (b) ensuring continuous access in real time to financial and economic information, including means of extracting and analysing asset prices and other economic and financial data, as well as trading and recording platforms for financial and other assets on international markets; c) production of Bulgarian exchange and commemorative coins; (b) To be created t. 19: "19." for contracts for carrying out security of premises and for contracts for carrying out fire-fighting and rescue activities and state fire-fighting control by employees of the Ministry of Interior, concluded on the basis of the Ministry of Interior Act. 2. In Paragraph 2 of the Additional Provisions of paragraph 1, the following shall be added: 47, point (a) is inserted after the word "consequences" and added to the Law on Underground Acquisitions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 28. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Article 5 is amended as follows: Art. 5. (1) In the case of the sale of shares through a public offering, the Privatization Agency and after privatisation control or municipal councils shall award the preparation and conclusion of a privatisation transaction after a competition of investment firms. (2) The Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency and the municipal councils may entrust to third parties the carrying out of expert activities related to the preparation of privatisation or post-privatization control, including procedural representation, under conditions and by order specified by the Council of Ministers. The evaluation shall be awarded to independent valuers under the Independent Evaluators Act. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22a, para. The second sentence is created: The Agency for Privatization and Post-Privatization Control may also be entrusted with other functions defined by law. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 4 t. 10 is amended as follows: ..10. may bring claims relating to or arising from concluded privatisation contracts, or from concluded agreements, or an agreement under point (c). 8 in connection with para. 5 - 8 or from trust accounts, bank guarantees or other transaction documents, as well as may be the defendant of such claims before a court or arbitration. (b) in para. 5 after the word "instructions" shall be added to the list, and after the word "instructions" shall be added, for which an executive sheet has been issued. 4. In the name of Chapter Eight, the words "Concessions" and "Concessions" are deleted. 5. Articles 36, 37, 37a and 38 are repealed. 6. The additional provisions shall create a new § 8: ................................................................................... In the case of award under art. 5, para. 1 and 2 do not apply the provisions of the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u72	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I put to the vote a proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 2 against 68, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 20, 21 and 22 on the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 6. Paragraphs 20, 21 and 22 of the Commission Report have been adopted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for no, against 70, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 23 on the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 83 against 1, abstention 6. Paragraph 23 of the Commission Report has been adopted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: 3 against 61, abstentions 32. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 24 to 29, including the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 90, none, abstention 3. Paragraphs 24 to 29, including the Commission Report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u73	According to § 29, there is a proposal of the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of Members of the National Assembly in § 29, a new point 9 is created with the following content: Nine. A new paragraph shall be established in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Underground Treasures Act as follows: (1) The Minister of Energy may grant free of charge for the management and use of the relevant municipalities for up to 35 years from the entry into force of the decision under para. 4 rock coating materials from fields from which they are not provided: 1. mining concessions and no applications for grant of mining concessions have been submitted; 2. permissions to study. (2) List of fields under para. 1 shall be published annually by 31 December on the website of the Ministry of Energy. (3) The provision of rock cladding materials shall be made no later than 31 January of the following year following a written application by the mayor of the municipality concerned on the basis of a decision of the Municipal Council. 1. The Municipal Council shall determine by decision whether permissions to study the rock cladding materials under para. 1 or a concession shall be granted for the extraction of rock coating materials under para. 1; 2. The mayor of the municipality: (a) conclude contracts for the provision of concessions for the extraction of rock cladding materials under para. 1; (b) issue permissions for the study of rock coating materials under para. 1; (c) send copies of the authorisations granted and concessions granted to the Ministry of Energy and publish them on the website of the municipality concerned; (d) annually by 31 March he shall submit to the Minister of Energy a report on the use of the rock coating materials under para. 1. (8) The financial conditions relating to the granting of concessions for the extraction and the granting of authorisations for the examination of rock cladding materials under para. 1 in the order of that paragraph of the municipalities are as follows: (a) The provision by the municipalities under this paragraph of research rights or for the extraction of rock cladding materials under para. 1 by permission to study or by concession for extraction shall be carried out against payment. (b) Applicants for a study permit and applicants for a concession for extraction shall pay fees when submitting applications. The fee shall be collected to cover the administrative costs of the procedure for granting the authorisation or concession, the order of collection and the amount of the fee being determined by an act of the Municipal Council. The amounts shall be entered in the budget of the municipality concerned which has awarded the concession. (c) The holder of the study authorisation shall pay an annual area fee. The amount of the fee shall be determined depending on the duration of the authorisation, the amount of the area granted and the group of underground treasures for which the authorisation is granted, and the order, amount and time limits for payment of the fee shall be determined by an act of the Municipal Council. The amounts shall be entered in the budget of the municipality concerned which has awarded the concession. (4) The Minister of Energy shall be within 14 days of the submission of the application under para. 3 by decision provides the field of rock coating materials to the municipality concerned. The decision shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Energy. (5) The mayor of the municipality shall manage the provided rock cladding materials under para. 1 in accordance with the requirements laid down in this Law, and the provisions relating to the provision of mining concessions and the issue of study authorisations shall apply accordingly by: (a) as provided for in art. 24, para. Article 2 (1) (a) 26, para. Article 2 (1) (a) 29, p. Article 3; 37, para. Article 3; Article 51; 53, para. Article 1 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be replaced by the following: 54, para. 1, para. 2 and para. Article 4; Article 54a; In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Art. 4 and art. 68 powers of the Minister of Energy shall be exercised by the mayor of the municipality; (b) as provided for in art. 25, para. Article 2 (1) (a) 37, para. Article 3; 53, para. 3 and para. Article 4; 54, para. 4, para. 5 and para. 7th, Art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Article 4; 69, para. 2 powers of the Council of Ministers shall be exercised by the Municipal Council; (c) in art. 39, para. 1, t. 3 The notice of forthcoming authorisation should be published on the website of the municipality concerned and not on the website of the Ministry of Energy; (d) in the cases referred to in art. 42, p. 3 The contest to grant the permission to study the rock-covering materials under para. 1 shall be carried out by the Minister of Energy under Section II of Chapter 2 of Part Two; (e) in the cases referred to in Art. 69 the authorisation or concession may be terminated only by a decision of the authority which granted them on its own initiative or at the request of the Minister of Energy; (f) in the cases referred to in art. 75, para. 2 if no agreement is reached under para. 1, the interested party may refer the matter to the Minister of Energy or to the Mayor of the municipality, who shall refer it to the Minister of Energy. (6) The municipalities shall have the right to use the information available at the Ministry of Energy free of charge on the deposits of rock cladding materials provided to the municipality concerned. (7) For the use of rock cladding materials under para. 1: (d) The concessionaire owes a concession payment, the amount of which is determined according to the type, group and value of the underground riches, as well as the specific conditions for the implementation of the extraction and primary processing. The principles and methodology for determining the concession payment, as well as the limits of the minimum and maximum size of the concession payment for the different types and groups of underground wealth under art. 2, para. 1 shall be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. The amount, conditions and arrangements for the concession payment shall be laid down in the concession contract. The concession payment is due regardless of the final financial result of the concessionaire's activity. (e) The Council of Ministers may adopt a decision to exempt the concessionaire from concession payment for a period of up to 5 years or to reduce the amount of concession payment to 50 per cent of the amount already determined for a period of up to 5 years. The decision of the Council of Ministers shall be reflected in the concession contract or in an additional agreement thereto. (f) The cash receipts from concession payments, penalties, guarantees shall be entered as revenue under the budget of the municipality concerned which has awarded the concession, which shall transfer 50 percent of the concession payment to the budget of the Ministry of Energy. (g) Part of the concession payment of 50 percent shall be translated into the budgets of the municipalities by the location of the areas under art. 37, para. 1, t. 1 and 2. Where the concession is for extraction from a deposit with reserves in volume up to 500,000 cubic metres. m, the entire concession payment is transferred to the budgets of the respective municipalities. Where the concession area is situated in the territory of more than one municipality, the allocation of the concession fee for the municipalities shall be made according to the proportional allocation of the concession area on the territory of the municipality concerned. Municipalities shall report on their budgets the amounts transferred as revenue from concessions. (h) The provisions of Chapter 3 of Part Two shall apply accordingly, insofar as they do not conflict with the rules laid down in this paragraph. (9) The Minister of Energy shall not consider applications submitted in the period 1 January 15 February for the issue of permissions for the study of rock coating materials under para. 1. (10) Within 14 days of the decision under para. 4 The Minister of Energy shall send the documents submitted under para. 9 in the jurisdiction of the mayor of the municipality concerned. (11) The right to manage and use the rock cladding materials under para. 1 shall be used for non-exercise for a period of 5 years. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u74	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The amendments proposed by the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedom in the Bill concern the lives and livelihoods of thousands of families, who have been hindered for many years by the current legislation. The main motive for the proposed change is that in areas where rock-covering materials are extracted, a serious percentage of the local population is committed to this livelihood. It is these people who want a simplified procedure for granting concessions to work and provide food for their families. With these changes in legislation, we will enable municipalities and local authorities to participate directly in the process of granting concessions with control powers. At the same time, this will ensure the development of the local economy, the creation of a better environment for small businesses, a fair distribution of the benefits of the concession between the state and municipalities. Offering these changes, the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms stands behind the interests and livelihoods of thousands of Bulgarian citizens. We are consistent in our policy, and in this way we are actually encouraging employment in disadvantaged areas and in those in which the demographic crisis is very visible. We all find that young and hardworking people are leaving the country and we do not see a lack of state policy for their detention. Breaking the problem through this prism would make perfect sense for our proposals to be supported by all MPs. This means providing livelihood in risk areas of the country, feeding thousands of families, living villages, developed infrastructure, higher standard of living, young families, and hence living kindergartens and schools. Last but not least, let us remind you that decades ago, for this hard work, prisoners were used. Today in European Bulgaria, rock processing is the main livelihood of thousands of Bulgarian families, for which the state cannot provide another alternative. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Kulkov. Are there any lines? For a replica, the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues, your proposal is essentially not bad, it refers to the Law on Underground Treasures. There's really a problem there that needs to be solved. The problem with underground wealth, even more with the common, rock-covering, even with construction materials, the procedure is extremely difficult, it takes years, many decisions of the Council of Ministers, many institutions dealing with the topic in this country. I do not think that the most appropriate thing is to transfer them to municipalities and to completely lose control of this useful wealth, which is generally exclusive state property. No matter who gives it, it's exclusive government property. You have to think in that direction and solve the problem. I don't think it can become a piece of transitional and final provisions in the Law on concessions. A comprehensive proposal for a change to the Underground Treasures Act must be prepared. If you accept the proposal, we can talk to the Ministry of Energy to set up a working group to give us texts in this direction. And we agree that especially the common and rocky ones must go in an extremely simple order, to have for them the so-called fast track. And in terms of income, they're still the same. If you remember in 2010, we made a change in the Law on Underground Treasures, bringing together the functions of three separate ministries, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works into a unit in the Ministry of Energy. Then we said with the Law that for all these common stocks up to 200,000 cc, if I am not mistaken, 100% of the concession fee is returned to the benefit of the municipality. I mean, the money now gets the city. She doesn't do the job, but she gets the money from the concession fees that people with legal concessions pay. Of the remaining over 200,000 cc stocks, 50% of the concession fee is refunded back to the municipalities. Your idea is good, there really is a problem, this problem needs to be solved, but I think you need to think more carefully and make a whole new change or a new Bill at first reading for changes to the Underground Treasures Act where they belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Any other lines? Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My fellow Member, I rather take the floor in the form of a line to clarify. He's right, colleague Delyan Dobrev. He talks about the entire resource of rock-covering materials. We have explored two specific cases that concern two fields in view of their specificity and the fact that the work there is carried out by craftsmen. This is how we define the localities under the Law, they are difficult to access and high in the mountains. The Ministry of Energy has held several meetings and continues to hold meetings in these settlements. They made a commitment by the Ministry of Energy to seek a flexible and adequate form so that this regime can be implemented. We believe that the craftsmen who acquire and shape the rock cladding material should unite themselves to whether it will be in the form of cooperatives, whether it will be in other forms, but to join together and receive support in order to shape their papers and documents so that they can participate in any procedure under the Underground Treasures Act. We do not believe that this issue is resolved. Unfortunately, this issue remains unresolved at the moment, but we rely on the interaction and the commitment that colleagues from the Ministry of Energy administration have undertaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Third line, Mr. Chakarov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Colleague Kulkov, sharing most of what you have expressed your concerns about this proposal, and by supporting them, I would like to point out to you that you have not pointed out that there is already a precedent in this regard. The reference is: the first term of the management of GERB. I won't go into details, but the case is with mineral waters. I appeal to my colleague that under no circumstances will the municipalities have powers and responsibilities reduce control. Decentralisation, regionalism are one of the main principles in European politics, so the competences assigned to municipalities should not be underestimated at all. Since there is such a precedent, I think it is appropriate that the proposal made by my colleague Kulkov should be supported. You should have referred to this fact as a serious argument in order to reduce the administrative burden. What you have also said, colleagues from GERB, I also have little experience in this regard, and we know that the procedure is extremely complex, long and clumsy. Imagine the people who can barely make ends meet in balance. This is not about over-profits and huge profits, as colleague Kulkov pointed out, in this case it is about a livelihood. In this regard, it will be a very important test for us to have this vote, with a view to which I turn to you, to support this proposal, because it turns out that in one case there was a will to do this years ago, and today we can help these people to implement this procedure within the municipality. Colleagues, you know, you're a former minister, how many times do these people have to come here, hire experts, it's all about spending, complicating, aggravating the procedure. It's very complicated and clumsy procedure. As long as there are people who want to deal with this difficult physical work, I appeal to support this proposal. Keep that in mind, colleague Kulkov, and you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Here you are, dear Mr. Kulkov. Dear colleagues, we have guests on the balcony from the town. Stara Zagora. Please welcome them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Indeed, what Dr. Chakarov said is true. Surely people do not understand what is so proposed and previous order for making concessions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the territory of Blagoevgrad region only four municipalities provide a living for over 4,500 families who are engaged in this kind of activity. People expect us to ease the administrative procedure, the difficulties, not their physical ones, because they can't understand us. And the fact that part of the concessions will go down to municipality territory does not mean that the municipality will not be able to control this process. And right now, the city is still in control of this process. I think that this is not a reason to reject this text, even more I repeat that this is the main livelihood for over 4,500 families in the region only of Blagoevgrad, but we have done research that in other parts of the country is the same. I expect there to be support for which people will be pleased. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Kulkov. Are there any other statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal made by MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 21, against 24, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u85	Mr. Chairman, I'm asking for a re-vote procedure. Colleagues couldn't vote. Colleagues, with the latest amendments to the Criminal Code, we have criminalized the act of mining underground riches without proper permission in the appropriate order. These rock-covering stones are treated like underground riches, although there's nothing underground there.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u86	Mr. Hamid, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u87	Colleagues, because of the water, because of one or two companies, because of the big business, we made an exception then, and now because of so many thousands of families that we're pushing to be chased by the proper prosecutor that two stones will be charged, we can't help them?! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u88	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Someone will decide that I'm sucking up to you by letting you make the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u89	I accept the remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u90	Just remove him from two sessions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u91	It's a re-vote. They voted 115 MPs: 19 against 19, abstentioned 77. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 29 which, after approval by the Commission, becomes § 30. They voted 111 MPs: for 93, against 14, abstention 4. Paragraph 30 of the Commission Report has been adopted. [[The DPS Parliamentary Group is leaving plenary.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u92	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 32. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32, which shall become § 33: ................................................ In the Law on Tourism (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 6 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 28 words on the basis of a public-private partnership shall be deleted. 2. Point 35 is amended as follows: It's 35. performs the powers of concession for sea beach concessions which are of cross-border interest within the meaning of the Law on concessions, including organises and implements the activity of renting on sea beaches which are not awarded, respectively, to a concession; Under § 33, there is a proposal from the MP Rumen Georgiev: In the proposed text of § 33, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 1, b. The Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast and the Law on Construction of the Black Sea Coast to replace it with the Law on the Construction of Sea Beaches for Rent is hereby repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Saveklieva and Petrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 33, which shall become § 34: ................. In the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 t. 3 is amended as "3." the conditions for the management of sea beaches and for the provision of beach services. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The sea beaches or parts thereof with their adjacent aquatory shall be managed and maintained by the award or award of a concession. The width of the adjacent aquatoria included in the site of a concession for the sea beach cannot be more than 200 m. The duration of the concession for the sea beach, whether with or without cross-border interest within the meaning of the Law on concessions, is up to 20 years. Where the award, respectively, of a concession for the sea beach ended after 31 April of the relevant year, the concession contract shall enter into force on the first January of the following year. (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The concession for the sea beach of the beneficiary shall be entrusted with carrying out the water rescue activities, securing the adjacent aquatory, health and medical services and sanitary maintenance of the sea beach, hereinafter referred to as the "Sea rescue activities', as well as providing beach services under the terms of the concession contract. The concessioner provides free and free access on the sea beach and places indicative signs with schemes of the individual zones and the terms of the concession. (c) New paragraphs 3 and 4 shall be established: The concessionaire pays the concession fee to the concession holder under the terms of the concession law. (4) Sea beaches or parts thereof for which no concession has been awarded or granted shall be managed by the Minister of Tourism. (d) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The Minister of Tourism may award sea beaches under para. 4 or parts of them shall be rented for up to 5 years, provided that the estimated value of the renter's income is not greater than the European threshold within the meaning of the concession law and the concession procedure for the sea beach will not be completed by 31 April of the year concerned. The tenant of the sea beach is obliged to carry out the mandatory activities and to pay a rental price. Renting is carried out by means of an auction under the terms and conditions of the Rules for Implementation of the State Property Act. (e) in para. 7 the words which are not provided to the "supplied" shall be replaced by the words "supplied" or "concession" or "supplied" shall be added and the words "supplied" shall be replaced by the "official website" shall be replaced by the "internet" page. (f) in para. 8 sentences are created second and third: The scheme shall be presented by 31 April of the year in question. The carrying out of the water rescue activity shall be entrusted by the Minister of Tourism and/or by the Regional Governor by means of a public procurement. (g) paragraph 9 is amended as follows: Sea beaches with their adjacent aquatory within the protected areas referred to in Annex 2 to the Protected Areas Act, as well as sea beaches for environmentally friendly tourism listed in the Annex, shall not be awarded, granted to a concession or rented out respectively. (h) paragraph 10 is amended as follows: The concession for the construction of artificial sea beaches on properties of state property is awarded under the terms and conditions of the Law on concessions. A concession for a sea beach which is without cross-border interest within the meaning of the Law on concessions shall be granted and implemented under the terms and conditions of this Act. (i) paragraph 11 is repealed. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Minister of Tourism: 1. implement the powers of concession for concessions of cross-border interest determined by the Law on concessions; 2. carry out the actions defined by this law to grant concessions without cross-border interest, as well as conclude and supervise the execution of concession contracts for those concessions; 3. open the auctions for renting on sea beaches, as well as conclude and supervise the implementation of the contracts. (b) in para. 2 all over the word "payment" is replaced by "reward" and the words "art." 81 of the.s. are deleted; (c) in para. 3 the word "payment' is replaced by "reward'. 4. In the name of Chapter Two, the words "for the seaside' shall be replaced by "no interest for the sea beach'. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8a, para. 1 after the word "Conccession" is added without any interest within the meaning of the Law on Tariffs. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier' and everywhere the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'; (b) in para. 2 the word "supplies" is replaced by "rewardes" and the words "supplies," benefits and sale of documents for participation" shall be replaced by "supplies and benefits" shall be replaced by "supplies and benefits" shall be replaced by "suppliers" and "suppliers" shall be replaced by "suppliers" and "suppliers" shall be replaced by "suppliers" and "suppliers" shall be replaced by "suppliers" and "suppliers" shall be replaced by "suppliers." (c) paragraph 3 is repealed; (d) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The financing of the activities for the award of sea beach concessions is carried out under the Law on concessions. 7. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u93	Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u94	Thank you. Mr. President, honourable Members, I will make a proposal for editing of the reported § 32, which becomes § 33, with amendments to the Law on Changes in Tourism, and § 30, which becomes § 34, with amendments to the Law on the Black Sea Coast. In view of the removal of para. 3 of art. 25 which the entire plenary supported in yesterday's sitting should also be edited so as to align them with the so-called amendment. I therefore propose the following version of the text proposed by the Commission, namely: ................................................ In the Law on Tourism (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 6 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 28 words on the basis of a public-private partnership shall be deleted. 2. Point 35 is amended as follows: It's 35. performs the powers of concession for sea beach concessions, including organises and implements the activity of renting on sea beaches which are not awarded to a concession; ................. The Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 t. 3 is amended as "3." the conditions for the management of sea beaches and for the provision of beach services. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. The width of the aquatoria included in the site of concession may not be more than 200 m. The duration of the concession for the sea beach is up to 20 years. (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The concession for the sea beach of the beneficiary shall be entrusted with carrying out the water rescue activities, securing the adjacent aquatory, health and medical services and sanitary maintenance of the sea beach, hereinafter referred to as the "Sea rescue activities', as well as providing beach services under the terms of the concession contract. The concessioner provides free and free access on the sea beach and places indicative signs with schemes of the individual zones and the terms of the concession. (c) New paragraphs 3 and 4 shall be established: The concessionaire pays the concession fee to the concession holder under the terms of the concession law. (4) Sea beaches or parts thereof for which no concession has been awarded shall be managed by the Minister of Tourism. (d) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The Minister of Tourism may award sea beaches under para. 4 or parts of them for rent for up to 5 years, provided that the estimated value of the renter's income is not greater than the European threshold within the meaning of the concession law. The tenant of the sea beach is obliged to carry out the mandatory activities and to pay a rental price. Renting is carried out by means of an auction under the terms and conditions of the Rules for Implementation of the State Property Act. (e) in para. 7 the words which are not provided to the "supplier" shall be replaced by the words "supplier," after the words "concession" or "supplier" shall be added, and the words "supplier" shall be replaced by the "internet" page. (f) in para. 8 sentences are created second and third: The scheme shall be presented by 31 April of the year in question. The carrying out of the water rescue activity shall be entrusted by the Minister of Tourism and/or by the Regional Governor by means of a public procurement. (g) paragraph 9 is amended as follows: The sea beaches with their adjacent aquatory within the protected areas of Annex No 2 to the Protected Areas Act, as well as the marine beaches for environmentally friendly tourism listed in the Annex, cannot be awarded a concession or rented out. (h) paragraph 10 is amended as follows: A construction concession for the construction of artificial sea beaches on properties of state property may be awarded under the terms and conditions of the Law on concessions. (i) paragraph 11 is repealed. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Minister of Tourism shall exercise the powers of a concession, open the auctions for renting, concluding and controlling the implementation of the contracts for sea beaches. (b) in para. 2 all over the word "payment" is replaced by "reward" and the words "art." 81 of the.s. are deleted; (c) in para. 3 the word "payment' is replaced by "reward'. 4. Chapter 2?................................................................................ 8a to art. 8p including canceled. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier' and everywhere the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'; (b) in para. 2 the word "supplies" is replaced by "rewardes" and the words "supplies," benefits and sale of documents for participation" shall be replaced by "supplies and benefits" shall be replaced by "supplies and benefits" shall be replaced by "suppliers" and "suppliers" shall be replaced by "suppliers" and "suppliers" shall be replaced by "suppliers" and "suppliers" shall be replaced by "suppliers" and "suppliers" shall be replaced by "suppliers." (c) paragraph 3 is repealed; (d) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The financing of the activities for the award of concessions for sea beaches is carried out under the Law on concessions. 6. In § 1 of the additional provisions, point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 is repealed. I call on you to support them, as they will be in line with the already accepted dropout of para. 3 of art. 25. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u95	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines? I won't. I put to the vote the proposals made by the Parliamentary Tribune by the MP Christian Mitev. First, we vote § 33 with the editorial changes presented to you by Mr. Mitev. We are voting on the proposed amendments to § 33 of the Commission Report. Vote 82 MPs: 79, none, abstention 3. I shall put to the vote the proposals for editorial changes made by the parliamentary platform in § 34 of the Commission report. The proposals were made by the MP Christian Mitev. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The changes proposed by Christian Mitev in § 34, have been adopted. I put to the vote paragraphs 31 and 32 of the Commission Report, as well as paragraphs 33 and 34 of the same Report, with the editorial changes that we have already made and adopted, following a proposal from Christian Mitev. We vote paragraphs 31, 32 and 34. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs have been adopted. We also vote on a proposal from the MP Rumen Georgiev under § 33 which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 6, against 57, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u96	The Commission shall support the text of the importer under § 34, which shall become § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 38. Proposal by Daniel Kirilov for § 39. The Commission proposes to establish § 39 and supports its proposal: .............................................................................. In the Law on the Bulgarian Bank for Development (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 4, para. 2 shall be added at the end as well as the activities under art. 39, para. 2, p. 4 and 5 of the Law on concessions. Proposal by Daniel Kirilov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... In the Law on Protected Areas (prom., SG No. ...) shall be created art. 75: Art. 75. (1) In the case of a concession for a protected territory, exclusive State ownership, 50 percent of the cash proceeds from concession fees for that concession shall be transferred by the relevant Ministry of the Budget of the Municipality on the location of the concession territory and of the accessories to the concession site determined under the concession law. (2) Where the concessional territory and/or belonging are situated in the territory of more than one municipality, the sum under para. 1 shall be allocated proportionately to the location of the areas of the territory of the concession and/or of the accessories on the territory of the municipality concerned. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 41.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u97	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My statement and, accordingly, a proposal concerns § 38, which becomes § 41. This is the text for the entry into force of the Law. We have adopted the Law to enter into force within three months of its promulgation in the State Gazette, etc. 1 and 2 exceptions are indicated. My proposal is to replace it with one month. We discussed, after the second reading in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the need to shorten the Vocacio Legis of this Law, which, although complex, will endeavour to carry out preparatory actions, so that within the monthly period all organisational, preparatory actions, including under the regulatory framework, can be carried out. I therefore justify the proposal to replace the three-month exchange with the one-month exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u99	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made by the parliamentary tribune in § 38 by importer the word "three months" to be replaced by "one month." It is § 38 by importer, which in the Commission Report becomes § 41. Vote 84 MPs: 79, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 35 to 38, including on the Commission Report; the Commission's proposal to establish new paragraphs 39 and 40 with their respective content on the Report, as well as § 41 after the editorial change that we have already adopted. We are voting on paragraphs 35 to 41, including the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 35 to 41, including the Commission Report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u100	Annex 1 to art. 7, para. 2, p. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 1. Annex 2 to art. 8, para. 2. There is a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski: In Annex No 2, the following entry is added: 5b "b' is amended as follows: (bbb) The postal services are services which include the collection, sorting, transport and delivery of mail; The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u101	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Georgi Svilenski is for Annex 2 and is not supported by the Commission. They voted 82 MPs: for no, against 64, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for Annexes 1 and 2 supported by the Commission and appearing in its report. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. Annexes 1 and 2 to the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u102	Annex 3 to art. 8, para. 3. Proposal by the National Representative Vesela Lecheva: In Annex 3 to row 2, "Administrative, social, educational, health and cultural services', in column The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u103	We are voting on a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Vesela Lecheva, which is not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 5 against 71, 14 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the text on the Commission report on Annex No 3. Vote 91 MPs: 90 against 1, no abstentions. Annex 3 to the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u104	According to Annex No 4 there is a proposal of the National Representative Vesela Lecheva: In Section I, point (c) of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is replaced by the text set out in the 1. A new letter (s) shall be created: (h) services related to sport training; sports training; training and training; participation and realization in sports events; preparation, qualification and requalification of sports specialists; management of sports activities and sports infrastructure; organization and holding of sports events and competitions;'; 2. The current letter "z" becomes the letter The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 4. Annex 5 to art. 60, para. 2, p. 4 (b). The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 5. Annex 6 to art. 73, para. 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 6, which shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 8 words, where applicable, shall be deleted, and in t. 9 the word "conditions' is replaced by "conditions'. Annex 7 to art. 75, para. 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 7. Annex No 8 to art. 75, para. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 8. Annex 9 to art. 114, para. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Vesela Lecheva for Annex 4 which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 6 against 77 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Annexes 4 to 9 including the Commission Report. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. Annexes 4 to 9 including the Commission Report have been adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Our next item on the agenda is: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MINISTERITY OF INTERNAL WORKS. The bill was submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017 and was adopted at the first vote on 21 September 2017. With the Internal Security and Public Order Committee's report, you will be acquainted with its chairman, Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov. You have the floor, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before we begin watching a second reading of the Bill, please vote for the admission of Krasimir Tzipov to Deputy Minister of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u107	Please vote on the proposal made. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. Please invite Deputy Minister Tsipov to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u108	A report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Ministry of Interior Act No 702-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017, adopted on the first vote on 21 September 2017. The Law on the Ministry of the Interior is amended and supplemented by the Act on the Ministry of the Interior. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u109	We are voting on the text of the importer for the name of the Law supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u110	They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The name of the Commission Report Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u111	Under paragraph 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. Proposal by the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The Fire Safety and Population Protection Authorities shall carry out the activities under para. 2, p. 3 in a team of at least three employees. In settlements with population up to 5000 people are allowed to carry out the activity in teams of two employees.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u112	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 1 and the new § 2. The two paragraphs are supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u113	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3. Proposal by the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ Chapter 3................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 6. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... Article 3 is Art. 58a. Police and fire safety and population protection authorities shall carry out watershed activities under conditions and in accordance with the instructions of the Minister of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u114	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission supported § 3, which becomes § 5, § 4, which becomes § 6, and the creation of a new § 7. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 5, 6 and the newly established Paragraph 7 of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u115	Paragraph 5. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 a comma shall be placed at the end and added as well as persons against whom a short-term accommodation order has been issued under art. 44, para. 13 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria (b) To be created t. 3: "3." persons for whom this is provided by law. 2. In para. 2 after the words "al." 1, t. 1 "supplied' is added to the list of items in Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u116	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 5, which shall become § 8, supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 8 of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u117	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 81, para. 1, t. 3 Finally, an order for short-term accommodation under Art. 3 shall be added or issued. 44, para. 13 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria There is a proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 84 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 5 and 6 are amended as follows: For the duration of the temporary request, the property shall be stored in the respective territorial unit of the Directorate General (6) After drawing up the minutes under para. 2 or 3 it shall be submitted without delay, but not later than 24 hours, for validation by the Head of the Regional Unit of the Directorate-General of the Border Police and the Border Police Department, the Border-Police Base or the Regional Management of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in which the property is stored. The transfer or seizure shall be notified to the Member State which entered the alert in SIS and/or in Interpol. 2. Alinei 8-12 are amended as follows: If a request for return is received within 60 days from the Member State that entered the alert, the object shall be returned to the person referred to in the request within 7 days with an order from the relevant head of para. 6. (9) If no return request is received within 60 days from the Member State which entered the alert, the object shall be returned to the person from whom it was accepted or seized within 7 days with the order of the relevant head of para. 6. (10) For the return under para. 8 and 9 minutes shall be drawn up. (11) Alinei 8 and 9 shall not apply where: 1. the object is an object or means of committing a crime in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. the object is evidence subject to precautionary measures or its transmission may be difficult criminal proceedings initiated in the Republic of Bulgaria; 3. The possession of the property is prohibited by the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria. (12) In the cases referred to in para. 11 items shall be transmitted in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Code for the purposes of criminal proceedings. 3. They're creating an al. 13 and 14: In the case of transfer or transfer of forms for official documents which have been stolen, illegally seized or lost, issued identity documents such as passports, ID cards, driving licences, residence documents and travel documents which have been stolen, illegally seized, lost or declared invalid, documents for registration of motor vehicles and registration plates which have been stolen, illegally seized, lost or declared invalid if not falling within the categories under para. 11 shall be transmitted in accordance with the established order of the relevant diplomatic or consular representation of the Member State issuing the document by order of the relevant head of para. 6. (14) A item not sought within 6 months of the issuing of the order under para. 8 and 9 is considered to have been abandoned in favour of the State.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u118	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission supported § 6, which becomes § 9 and the new § 10. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs have been adopted. For the record, § 3 and the new § 4 were also adopted a short time ago. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u119	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 7 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u120	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 7 to be rejected. The Commission does not support it. Vote 91 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u121	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that § 8 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u122	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 8, which the Commission shall support. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that § 8 be rejected. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u123	Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u124	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote, first, the unsupported proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov. We'll wait a while, there's a problem with the vote in the Chamber. They voted 92 MPs: for 6, against 60, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 9, which shall become § 11. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u125	According to § 10 there is a proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 106a: Art. 106a. (1) In the exercise of its powers, to know the grounds for the actions taken and to clarify the rights of a person who does not understand the Bulgarian language or is deaf or mute, the police authority may use a translator or a translator. (2) The use of a translator, translator or other person in charge of the language concerned and the determination of remuneration shall be carried out under conditions and by order determined by order of the Minister of Interior. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u126	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote those supported by the Commission, respectively, § 10, which shall become § 12 and § 11, which shall become § 13. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The paragraphs of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u127	Under § 12, there is a proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 12" is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 128 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: For the purpose of carrying out fire-fighting and rescue activities and state fire-fighting control by fire safety authorities and the protection of the population in sites may be concluded contracts between the Ministry of Interior and the stakeholders. 2. A new para is being created. 2: The Ministry of Interior shall, on the basis of a contract concluded with the interested parties, carry out fire-fighting and rescue activities and state fire-fighting control by fire safety authorities and the protection of the population of: 1. Kozloduy NPP, Mini Maritsa East, TPP Maritsa East 2 and Sofia Airport; 2. Buildings or parts of buildings used by the Bulgarian National Bank. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it after the words. The following shall be added to the list: 5. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. 1 and 2' are replaced by.......................................................................................................... 1-3 6. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and amended as follows: supplied by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the Treaty') 1 and 2 shall be carried out by the Director of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Population Protection. 7. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for 8. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 and in it the words......................................................................................... 6, para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 1 and 2
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u128	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. Vote 92 MPs: 7 against 70 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 12, which shall become § 14. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's Declaration paragraph has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u129	Under § 13 there is a proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 129, para. 5 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Text before t. 1 is amended as follows: to obtain permission to perform all or individual activities under para. 2 persons under para. 1 submit a written application with a single identification code (LEI) indicated where they are registered under the Commercial Law to which they apply: 2. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." a copy of a certificate of entry in the relevant register under the national law of the country under para. 1 in legalised translation in Bulgarian for legal entities registered outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 words and documents proving the ownership or legal basis for its use shall be deleted. 4. Point 4 is repealed. 5. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 the words "hired persons" shall be replaced by the persons to carry out the activities under para. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u130	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's support § 13, which becomes § 15. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 15 shall be adopted in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u131	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u132	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the paragraphs supported by the Commission on the new numbering 16, 17 and 18. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs have been adopted under the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u133	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: s) persons working in the Ministry of Interior may carry out: 1. security and/or crossing mode in the area of a guarded by the Ministry of Interior site a building, a complex of buildings or parts thereof, a facility or part of it or a separate area with certain boundaries; 2. assistance in monitoring the state border; 3. activities in the territorial service of the population. 2. A new para is being created. 2 and 3: The activities referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be carried out in accordance with the following 1. reception of citizens, registration of their signals, complaints and proposals, service of subpoenas, messages, papers and others; 2. acquisition of information from obvious sources for prepared or already committed offences and its timely reporting; 3. preparation of analyses and reports on security issues at local level and proposals for their solution. (3) In carrying out the activities under para. 1, t. 1 and 2 persons working on a labour relationship in the Ministry of Interior may detain a person who has violated: 1. security and/or crossing mode in the area of a guarded by the Ministry of Interior; 2. the border regime. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 4 and in it the words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 4. Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 become respectively. 5 and 6........................................................................................... The Commission proposes to create a new § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140b, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 140 a.m. is replaced by.c. 140a, para. The
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u134	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission supported § 17, which becomes § 19, and the creation of a new § 20. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. Paragraphs have been adopted under the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u135	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 18, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 160a, para. 1 the words "in the period after" shall be replaced by "the period after" and "the period after" shall be replaced by "the period after" and
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u136	Are there any speeches? I won't. I vote on the Commission's support § 18, which becomes § 21, we vote on the content of the paragraph. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The paragraph has been adopted under the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u137	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 22. Under § 20, there is a proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 173, para. 4 the words of which at least three years in the structure in which they have been assigned shall be kept.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u138	Statements? I can't see. I vote in favour of the Commission § 19, which becomes § 22, and § 20, which becomes § 23. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. Paragraphs have been adopted under the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u139	Under § 21, there is a proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 179 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The terms and conditions for the payment of the additional remuneration under para. 1 and under art. 178, para. 1, t. 2 shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Interior and their size by his command. 2. A new para is being created. 3: The amount of the additional remuneration referred to in art. 178, para. 1, t. 5 shall be determined for each reporting period by order of the Minister of Interior. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4. A proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 180 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The persons referred to in para. 1 an annual amount of money shall be paid for clothing under conditions and by order laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Interior and of an amount determined annually by his order. 2. A new para is being created. 7. seven of the amounts referred to in para. 6 shall not be subject to taxes. 3. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 and amended as follows: The persons working in the labour force shall receive additional remuneration under the conditions of art. 259 of the Labour Code and in cases where they fulfil part of the duties of a absent civil servant under art. 142, para. 1, t. 1 or para. 3 or a person working in employment by order determined by a regulation of the Minister of Interior and in the amounts determined by his order. A proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 181, para. 3 all over after the word the employees is added by art. 142, para. 1, t. 1... 3 and para. The following information shall be provided in accordance with Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: A proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 182, para. 1 sentence 2 is amended as follows: The terms and arrangements for the granting of the amounts are determined by a regulation of the Minister of Interior and their amount by his order. A proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 190 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: The State employees under Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be responsible for the implementation of this Agreement. 142, para. 1, t. 2 shall be entitled to work leave under specific conditions and risks to life and health which cannot be removed, limited or reduced, irrespective of the measures taken, under the conditions and in the amounts provided for in the Labour Code. 2. Previously on AMC's... 2 and 3 become respectively. Three and four. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it after the word the servants is added by para. One and two. 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and in it after the words. 1 "supplied" is added as follows and 2 "supplied" is added. Proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and the group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 200, para. 1, t. 4 the words "narcotic or other tranquilizers" shall be used. A proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 203 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is created t. 15: ..15. drug abuse. 2. The creation of para. 3: The conditions and procedure for the identification of the abuse of narcotics shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Interior. A proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 207, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 words................................................................................. 2 "14" is replaced by "the one" and "the one" is replaced by A proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 214, para. 1 is created t. 4. "4." where he appears to be in a condition of which he may be presumed to be following the use of a drug substance; in this case the removal shall be carried out by the immediate or superior supervisor and shall continue until the order of the ordinance under art. 203, para. 3 of presence or absence of abuse of narcotics. A proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 33: ................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 215, para. 2 after the words. The following shall be added to the list:
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u140	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I am voting on the Commission's support § 21, which becomes 24, and the creation of new paragraphs 25 to 33 inclusive. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The paragraphs of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u141	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 34: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 226 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. where the staff member does not take up the post to which he has been reinstated, within 14 days of the entry into force of the judgment repealing the order for termination of service, except where that period has not been respected for respectable reasons; (b) c. 10 after the words................................................................................................ 128, para. The following shall be added to 2. The creation of para. 9. The employee's service may not be terminated under para. 1, t. 10 and the employee to be reassigned according to the order of this law, when entering into a new contract for the same establishment on the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 1, art. 94, para. 1 or art. 128, para. 1 or 2, which shall enter into force immediately after the termination of the previous contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u142	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 22, which shall become § 34. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The paragraph of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u143	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 35, in which the word "repair' shall be replaced by "repair'. A proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 257a: Art. 257a. (1) Whoever breaks the rules for access to strategic zone of a strategic site or to an area related to the implementation of strategic activities of national security is punished with a fine from 500 to 1000 BGN. (2) For minor violations under para. 1 authorities of the Ministry of Interior impose a fine 50 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u144	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the Commission supported § 23, which becomes 35, respectively, and the creation of a new § 36. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The paragraphs of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u145	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 37. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 263 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words from BGN 1000 to BGN 10 000 shall be replaced by BGN 100 to BGN 1000 and the words from BGN 5000 to BGN 50 000 shall be replaced by BGN 1000 to BGN 5000. 2. In para. 2 words from BGN 10 000 to BGN 20 000 are replaced by BGN 1000 to BGN 2000 and the words from BGN 50 000 to BGN 100 000 are replaced by BGN 5000 to BGN 10 000. 3. The creation of para. 3: For minor infringements, the persons referred to in para. 1 is punished with a fine from 100 to 200 BGN respectively. or a penalty of EUR 200 to BGN 500 is imposed. Under § 26, there is a proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 39: .............................................................................. The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1, t. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. 2. In § 2, t. 1 after the words "al." 8 "Supplied" is added as follows: "Supplied" is added as follows: "Supplied" and "Supplied" is added as follows: Proposal by the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... In the Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior (prom., DV. No. No. 81 of 2016, Dop., No. 98 of 2016 and No. 58 from 2017) The following amendments shall be made to the Transitional and Final Provisions: 1. Paragraphs 73, 74 and 75 are repealed. 2. In § 76, the words "and 75" shall be deleted. 3. Paragraph 77 is repealed. 4. In § 78, para. 1 comma after the number 5. In § 79 comma after the number 6. Paragraph 80 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u146	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the paragraphs supported by the Commission 24, respectively, which becomes 37; 25, which becomes 38; 26, which becomes 39; and the new § 40 created. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The paragraphs of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u147	Under § 27, there is a proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 41: ............................................................................. Annex 1 to art. 92, para. 2 is amended as follows: Annex 1 to art. 92, para. 2 List of sites that the Ministry of Interior guards with police authorities, including signal security and other equipment: 1. The dam of the dam of Iskar Reservoir; 2. The dam of the dam of Kardzhali dam; 3. The dam of the dam "Studena" dam; 4. Nuclear Warehouse "New Khan"; 5. Railway hubs Sofia, Plovdiv, Gorna Oryahovitsa, Varna and Ruse; 6. Airports - Sofia, Varna, Burgas and Plovdiv; 7. The administrative building of the communications of the Bulgarian National Television Sofia, ul. "San Stefano" No 29; 8. National Radio and Television Center - Sofia, Blvd. "Tsarigradsko shose' 111; 9. Regional TV centers Plovdiv and Varna; 10. Bulgarian National Radio; 11. The building of the administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria "Sofia," Blvd. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 12. The building of the National Assembly, Sofia, pl. "Knyaz Aleksandar I"; 13. The building of the National Assembly, Sofia, pl. "The National Assembly" No. 2; 14. The building of the Council of Ministers sofia, Blvd. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man 15. Research reactor - 2000 at the Institute for Nuclear Research and Nuclear Energy - Bulgarian Academy of Sciences; 16. Buildings or parts of buildings used by the Commission to disclose documents and to declare the belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army; 17. National Museum of the National Museum of the Buzludzha; 18. National Museum of History "Sofia; 19. National Gallery Square 500 Sofia, pl. ♪ St. John's Day ♪ Alexander Nevsky, ul. "February 19" No 1. 20. Temporary obstruction facilities under art. 102, para. 7. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-16.u148	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the Commission's support § 27, which becomes § 41, and the name "Transitional and final provisions." They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The paragraph and the name have been adopted under the Commission Report. Colleagues, we'll be done with the report, we'll continue tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Parliamentary Control Communication on 17 November 2017, Friday: I. Debates on asking: Debates on asking MP Georgi Gokov to Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov on a policy for solving the country's demographic problems. II. Questions and Questions Answered: 1. Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer a question from the National Representative Boryana Georgieva. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov to a question from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Anton Kutev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to two questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev; and Krum Zarkov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov of a question by the National Representative Polina Tsankova-Hristova; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to a question written by the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Nikolay Penev; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to two questions from the MPs Georgi Mihailov; and Georgi Yordanov, Anelia Klisarova, Georgi Gokov and Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to a question with a written answer from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - two questions from the MPs Philip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; and Vasil Antonov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov; - a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov. Due to the country's absence in the parliamentary control meeting, Interior Minister Valentin Radev and Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will not participate. Dear colleagues, the time for today's plenary day is over. Tomorrow, a regular plenary session at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
