ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! Please take your seats. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose to include it as a point in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly the following additional point: a draft decision for the establishment of a Temporary Commission on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to give permission for arousal and conduct (continuation) prosecution against Veselin Naydenov Mareshki, MP in the 44th National Assembly. Mr. Dimitar Glavachev is the importer of the National Assembly, on 3 May 2017, and I propose that this be the first point for Friday 5 May 2017. Please vote. Vote 206 MPs: for 203, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, allow me to remind you that after the appointment of the President's Decree, which is expected to happen any moment with which the National Assembly is proposed to elect a Prime Minister, I will make a proposal, again on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to be included as points in our present Programme: 1. Election of Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. Adopting the structure of the Council of Ministers. 3. Election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. But that'll happen after the Decree's entry, so I can give you his number as well. We continue with our remaining point of the program that we have for the week, namely: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO RESPONSE THE MAIN MONTH REPRESENTATIVES OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES. Kornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 20 April 2017. Please have one of the importers present the bill. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A few days ago, we started this debate, and we did not come to the right decision, although most of us, including representatives of the majority, defined the way in which parliamentary remuneration is being defined at the moment as insufficiently adequate and unfair. That there is a need for a new approach to calculating the parliamentary salaries is a fact, but this should not make us just sit and wait for the time to come. He needs a new mechanism and we're ready to work for him. In the meantime, however, we need to stop the constant growth of MP salaries. If your forecasts and those who are shared are true, in just a month or two each of us will again have to explain to our voters why he raised his salary by several hundred levs. It is perfectly understandable in a country where 2.5 million. people, according to Eurostat data, live below or around the poverty threshold. And he's teasing fair and square! Yesterday we heard here the ministers responsible for our security, and we saw that policemen, firefighters, military workers work together with rations for food and overtime for wages on average less than the national average, and according to our regulations we get three times the average salary. Thirteen categories of senior civil servants are directly or indirectly linked to our salaries. These are committee heads, these are all different regulatory bodies. These are people whose work we don't always agree with, but we are constantly increasing their salaries! Why? Because of a formal mechanism! There are few professions, if any, with such a frequent indexation of wages to index our salaries every three months after we have not indexed pensions for more than 10 years! Therefore, this decision is not only to freeze wages, but also to reduce them! This should be a first step towards rethinking the method of recalculating and determining the salary. And since there has been a lot of speculation, let's say clearly: in essence, our proposal is that the basic salary of the MPs should be fixed by December last year before the last recalculation, which we all heard and felt on our backs the anger of the people, because it fell right in the middle of the election campaign. Then everyone said, "They haven't started working yet, they're raising their wages!" And can we accuse them of saying that? Our salary, if you accept our decision, will be 2,000. 970 and a few BGN. Honestly, we didn't complain! It's the right decision and you know it. In 2009, you took the same. Other people's meetings have done so. Let us do it now and show this elementary sign of solidarity that we are aware of our responsibility! Please don't be stubborn and support one correct solution! [[Lowered applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like a procedure with regard to this item on the agenda, as I believe that its discussion on the basis of art. 82 of the new Rules of Procedure, under which: a draft which has been rejected in the first vote may be tabled and re-examined only after significant changes in its main situation, which is reflected in the reasons and not earlier than three months after its rejection. Just a week ago, last Thursday, we discussed the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, including the annex to it. We have had the debate on this material issue. Colleagues, this is a material issue contained in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. No matter how we mask it, whether as a proposal to the Rules of Procedure or as a Draft Decision, the regulation concerns the Rules of Procedure. I therefore believe that, in relation to such a draft decision, we should refer to the rules of the Bill and conduct the discussion in three months. Moreover, during the debate last Thursday, there was a clear position that it is not a speech to mechanical or automatic freezing, but we should essentially discuss the basis and the grounds for the formation of the remuneration. In order not to sound populistic and repeat debate, I am proposing to end the debate and proceed to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Come in, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u6	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, please don't hide behind procedural grasps and snippets. [[GERB noise and lines]] , and vote and discuss this draft decision, at least because it was a proposal as a draft decision to the Rules of Procedure. This is a separate draft decision and you cannot align it to a bill, first. Secondly, there is no way you can propose to end the debates and debates, because this power under our Rules can only be done in respect of a second reading of a bill. That's not the situation here. That is why I am making a reverse proposal: let the debates continue, let the discussion continue. Colleague Krum Zarkov once again said from this tribune, as well as our colleagues, I included: let's freeze wages, let's cut them down, and then discuss the formula itself for their calculation. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u7	Order, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u8	We are open and will participate in such a debate and discussion, but why should we wait for the right moment when the salaries rise after one, two or three years in such a size that it will be offensive for the Bulgarian citizens to look at us at all?! Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote. Project! DECISION: suspending the recalculation of the basic monthly remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly: The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and § 2 of the Additional Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It shall cease until the end of the term of office of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, recalculating the basic monthly remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly. 2. The Members of the National Assembly of the Forty-fourth National Assembly shall receive a basic monthly remuneration of the remuneration received by the Members of the National Assembly in the forty-third National Assembly for the month of December 2016. Please vote. Vote 208 MPs: 76 against 50, abstention 82. The offer is not accepted. Written answers to questions from MPs from: - Minister of Justice Maria Pavlova on two questions from the MP Ekaterina Zaharieva; - the Minister of the Interior Plamen Uzunov of two questions from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Plamen Nunev. [[Move in the hall. Some of the MPs are coming out. Noise and lines.]] Members of Parliament, I would like to remind you that there is a vote on extraordinary points to be included in the Programme. We continue with the written answers to questions from MPs from: - the Minister of the Interior Plamen Uzunov of two questions from the MPs Valentin Radev and Manoil Manev; - Minister of Defence Stefan Yanev on a question from the MPs Hristo Gazhev and Plamen Manushev; - Minister of Defence Stefan Yanev on a question from the MPs Konstantin Popov and Plamen Manushev; - Minister of Defence Stefan Yanev on a question from the MPs Konstantin Popov and Hristo Gazhev; - the Minister of Service for Regional Development and Public Works Spas Popnikolov, 20 questions from the National Representative Lilyana Pavlova; - the Minister of Service for Regional Development and Public Works Spas Popnikolov on a question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - the Minister of Service for Regional Development and Public Works Spas Popnikol on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Staff Minister of Tourism Stella Baltova on five questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Hristo Bosukov, five questions from the National Representative Dessislava Taneva; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Galab Donev on a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev; - the Minister of the Environment and Waters Irina Kostova on a question from the National Representative Ivelina Vassileva. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, allow me to inform you that the publication of the new Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, updated. in the Official Journal of the European Union, No. 35/2017, already available and distributed in the parliamentary groups. In view of a decree issued by the President proposing to the National Assembly to elect a Prime Minister in this regard and on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I propose to include them in the National Assembly's Work Programme for today's plenary sitting on 4 May 2017 the following additional points: 1. Election of Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. Adopting the structure of the Council of Ministers. 3. Election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. The decree is No 119 from 4 May 2017. With it the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Rumen Radev proposed to the National Assembly to elect Boyko Metodiev Borisov as Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. The decree just came in today. Please vote. Vote 177 MPs: for 176, there is no abstention 1. The proposal to include the three points that I have just proposed to you has been accepted. I'm calling a break till 11:00. [[Noise and lines.]] (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u10	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, please take your seats. We continue today's plenary session with: SELECTION OF THE MINISTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. ACCEPTANCE OF THE CONSTRUCTURE OF THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL. SELECTION OF THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. First, let me introduce you to President Radev's statement: To the President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Dear Mr. Chairman, I am sending you Decree No 119 of 4 May 2017, with which the President of the Republic Rumen Radev on the basis of art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria proposes to the National Assembly to elect Boyko Metodiev Borisov as Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. On the basis of art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I SAY: I propose to the Forty-fourth National Assembly to elect Boyko Metodiev Borisov as Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. The decree was issued in Sofia on 4 May 2017. President of the Republic of Rumen Radev. [[Applause from GERB.]] You have the floor of procedure, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u11	Dear Mr. Chairman, honored guests, honourable Members of the House! On the basis of art. 51, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure I am proposing a direct broadcast of this sitting on the National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. Thank you. [[(Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "BNT 2" (BSP for Bulgaria))]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u12	Order, please. Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote on the proposal made by the National Representative Danail Kirilov. Vote 231 MPs: 220, no objection, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Please turn on the cameras and microphones of the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. I give the floor to the President of the Parliamentary Group of Political Party GERB to present the candidate for Prime Minister of Mr. Boyko Metodiev Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u13	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the faiths in Bulgaria, Your excellences, Dear Madame Mayor of the capital, Dear Mr. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers of the Office, Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Guests! In the execution of a procedure under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in accordance with Decree No 119 of 4 May 2017 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, I have the high honour to present to you a biographical reference of the candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Metodiev Borisov. Boyko Metodiev Borisov was born on 13 June 1959. He graduated from the Higher Special School of the Ministry of Interior. From 1985 to 1990 he was a lecturer at the Higher Institute for Training Officers and Research at the Ministry of the Interior. He defended a dissertation on the topic: The Psychophysic preparation of the staff and was awarded a PhD degree. In 1990 he left the system of the Ministry of Interior, and in 1991 he founded one of the largest security companies in the country, which is a member of the World Organization of Guards and of which Mr. Borisov is a personal member. In 2001 he was appointed to the post of Chief Secretary of the Ministry of Interior with a decree of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. By decree of 2002 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Petar Stoyanov was awarded the title of Major General, in 2004 with the Decree of President Georgi Parvanov was awarded the title General. During its professional realization in the Ministry of Interior has been awarded many times by the Minister of Interior and has been awarded numerous international awards to the law enforcement authorities of the Euro-Atlantic countries and Russia, among which the Minister of Internal Affairs of the Kingdom of Spain of the Spanish State for services to the police, the Honorary Staff of the General Director of the Police of the Kingdom of Spain, the Honorary Medal of the French Police, on behalf of the President of the Republic of France and on behalf of the Minister of Internal Affairs of France, the Director of the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation, the Commander of the Order of the Force of Solidarity by the President of the Republic of Italy. In 2005 he was elected mayor of Sofia. In 2007, he was again elected mayor of the capital. In 2009, Mr. Borisov was elected by the 40th National Assembly for Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. In May 2013 he was elected MP at the Forty-second National Assembly and Chairman of the largest parliamentary group of GERB. In October 2014, following early parliamentary elections was elected by the Fortyth Third National Assembly as Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the early parliamentary elections held in March 2017, Mr. Borisov was again elected MP. Today Mr. Borisov is again nominated Prime Minister by the largest parliamentary group GERB and is called to form a government of the Republic of Bulgaria. I am convinced that the Prime Minister of Bulgaria will face serious challenges both at national and global level. The responsibility is enormous, but I am sure of the firm will and determination of Mr. Borisov, in his dedication with which he will work for the prosperity of Bulgaria and for the successful performance as Presidents of the European Union. I believe that, together with the team of the Council of Ministers, with the parliamentary support that will be received today, the future government of Bulgaria will actually be able to achieve political and institutional stability, which is the most important for our country in this difficult period. I would like to thank everyone who will actively participate in today's debate and will support the future government with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. I would like to wish success to the election of Mr. Borisov and his composition of the Council of Ministers and I hope that starting today we are starting a new, good future for Bulgaria. I am convinced that, together with parliamentary support and, of course, with the constructive opposition, we will actually be able to achieve what not only Bulgarian citizens expect, but also all European and international institutions. I am convinced that with this nomination of the Parliamentary Group of GERB and the possibility of Mr. Borisov forming a cabinet, it will be given the opportunity to actually move only in the only possible way for Bulgaria. And if we are really nationally responsible politicians, today we will give our support to such a cabinet, the main goal of which is Euro-Atlantic values and to be part of a strongly united Europe and part of NATO. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u14	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. The word for programming intentions, structure and staff of the Council of Ministers has the proposed Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Here you go, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u15	Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, honourable colleagues from the caretaker government, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President of the National Assembly, representatives of the faiths, Mayor of Sofia, Your excellences, ladies and gentlemen! At the will of the Bulgarian people today, the two political formations are responsible for the management of Bulgaria in the next four years. We are at a historic time for the world and Europe. Political uncertainty, economic problems, religious contradictions, instability in the region, the new security challenges in the world require us to overcome party selfishness and dedication to the interests of Bulgarian citizens and national priorities. Our common understanding is that today our country and its citizens need responsible to them and the future of our country governance. They need security and trust in the state and institutions to do everything possible to ensure the better present and better future of Bulgaria. In the name of the Bulgarian citizens and of the Bulgarian state Political Party GERB and Coalition of United Patriarchs, we are perceiving our differences, our views on many issues have reached an agreement on the main priorities in the work of our joint government. We are continuing along the path of the Euro-Atlantic integration of the country and will work towards reforming the European Union in the name of its successful development and enlargement. We guarantee successful organization and implementation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. I would like to thank the caretaker government for everything it has done so far on this subject. We will take all measures to ensure the security of Bulgarian citizens and to limit domestic crime through increased police presence in the country's settlements, limiting illegal migration and protecting our national borders, which are our top priority. We will conduct policies and implement measures to increase citizens' incomes through employment and greater labour productivity. Modernization of the country and growth acceleration will provide a gross domestic product of 120 billion. lv. within the limits of the mandate. In implementing the measures of this Programme we guarantee within the mandate minimum wage of 650 BGN. and an average salary of 1500 BGN. God willing, and more. We will create more flexible employment opportunities and additional qualifications for workers by facilitating active and enterprising with measures to better reconcile the career with family life. We will support both the growth of the economy and the solution of the country's demographic problems. Social benefits will be tied to employment. All workers who receive aid at work must be involved in employment. The increase in the minimum pension will take place from 1 July 2017 and the minimum pension for internship and age will grow from 1 October 2017. Along with this, all pensions allocated in 2010 with the average social benefit for 2009. We will introduce a closer commitment of social assistance to community service, responsible parenting and regular visits by children of kindergartens and schools. We will also apply a system of measures to overcome negative demographic trends. We will continue our policy of reducing the 2017 deficit in order to reach a balanced budget in 2020, maintaining direct tax rates and allowing no additional tax reductions. The rates and the VAT registration threshold will remain unchanged. Bulgaria's main goal is further integration into the European financial infrastructure. The single banking union and the Eurozone are our natural path of development after meeting all the criteria. Until then, the currency board is unalternative and inviolable. We are continuing active work on curbing smuggling and taking decisive measures to combat the grey economy. Sustainable growth in income is an important priority of our governance. It can only happen on the basis of growth in the economy. In order to implement this process, we will apply measures to limit the administrative burden, to develop the capital market, as well as to build economic zones. Energy security is key to our economy and national security. We will ensure it through our own extraction, the construction of the interconnector links with the neighbouring countries, the construction of the gas distribution center. The full liberalisation of the electricity and gas market is a non-alternative solution. We will therefore propose legislative changes relating to the introduction of full liberalisation of the market. We place education as a strategic priority for our government. It will implement a decisive policy aimed at eliminating illiteracy and compulsory education, with the power of all state institutions and instruments. The patriotic and educational system will be the basis for the upbringing and upliftment of the Bulgarian spirit, a means of forming a sense of solidarity in society and attachment to the homeland. We are committed to increasing investment in education and guaranteed annual growth of the budget for education, changing the system of delegated budgets from 2018 and doubling the teacher's remuneration by the end of the term. We will ensure an annual increase in science funds in order to strengthen, modernise scientific organizations in the country for competitive research and build high-tech parks and centres. Accelerated deployment in the economy of research results and invented patents will speed up scientific development. Improving the health of the nation is a strategic goal of governance. We will expand the prevention measures and scope with additional screening tests and annual preventive examinations of all Bulgarian citizens. An important priority will be to ensure financial stability and ensure the health system. We are starting a phased demonopolization of the National Health Insurance Fund and building an integrated information system. The priority of our efforts will also be overcoming regional imbalances and ensuring functional interaction between individual levels of medical assistance. We have no reason to give up the main priority in the previous two governments of GERB. The construction of safe and modern road infrastructure and completion of the highway ring of the country. This, together with strong state policy, will help to achieve balanced development in the regions and reduce regional differences. In order to ensure the national sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country, as an active and reliable NATO member, we will participate in the preparation and implementation of the European Union's new European defence policy. In order to build a strong army, an accelerated development of the armed forces is needed. We will ensure the expansion of the participation of the Bulgarian defence industry and research institutes in the implementation of investment projects for modernisation and re-arming. The armed forces will engage in more effective protection of the population in the event of disasters and accidents, as well as in the protection of the border and countering terrorism. Our society is insistently waiting for us to respond to it with continuing judicial reform to ensure an effective, fast and fair judiciary. We continue the fight against corruption at all levels. We will propose a new Anti-Corruption Act that will unite fragmented legislation and create a single anti-corruption body based on the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. We are committed to the adoption of amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code for the elimination of formalism in the criminal process, as well as to the endless return of cases in pre-trial phase in order to avoid criminal liability. We will create a new order to prosecute corruption on the high levels of power by passing these cases into the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office. It is necessary to adopt a new criminal policy and to adopt a new Penal Code. An important goal is the introduction of e-Justice by the end of 2018, as one of the strongest anti-corruption measures related to the judiciary. We will continue the work of amending procedural laws to achieve adequate and effective judicial proceedings, to better manage the workload of courts, including improving and simplifying procedures and overcoming their discrepancies. We commit by the end of 2018 to fulfilling the 17 recommendations of the Ten-year Report on the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism. The aim is to achieve irreversible results in the fight against corruption and to guarantee independence of the judiciary. We need modernization and renewal for a healthy environment. We will also conduct a reform in the water sector. The National Water Program will provide clean drinking water and treatment facilities in smaller settlements as well. We need sustainable agriculture. The reform in land relations for sustainability, coma and the treatment of agricultural land as a natural resource will guarantee national food security. Bulgarian agriculture must be competitive and market-oriented. Our financial support will focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. We will improve the prevention and control of forest conservation and sustainable maintenance, conservation and enhancement of the country's forest resources. In the field of transport we will build modern, ecological and affordable infrastructure. We will introduce a fairer model for paying the roads by introducing a mixed system of electronic cars for cars and tolls for tolling distance for heavy goods vehicles. We are committed to the accelerated completion of the highway "Hemus" highway, the construction of the highway "Struma" "Stroma" "Stroma". Blagoevgrad "Sandanski," the construction of the Kalotina Motorway Sofia, the tunnel under Shipka peak, the speed road "Ruse" Veliko Tarnovo, the speed road "Vidin" "Sofia," the construction of the South Rainbow of the Sofia Ring Road, Burgas "Sunny Beach," the tour of Plovdiv, the expansion of the subway in Sofia, as well as the preparation for the construction of an intermediate terminal in the city of Varna and the town of Vidin. Ladies and gentlemen, these are only part of the policies that will implement the main mission of our government to improve the quality of the life of Bulgarian citizens and successfully develop Bulgaria. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to present to the Forty-fourth National Assembly the following draft structure and personnel of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. First, the structure of the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers consists of a prime minister, four deputy prime ministers and ministers. The ministers run separate ministries, and they are: Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Education and Science, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union "2018," Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Environment and Water, Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Energy, Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of Youth and Sports. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is established for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. I propose to be elected as members of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria the following ladies and gentlemen: Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mr. Lilyana Pavlova Nikolova, Minister of Culture, Minister of Environment and Water, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Minister of Economy, Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski, Minister of Economy, Minister of Energy, Mr. Emil Karaniklov, Minister of Energy, Mr. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Tourism, Minister of Tourism, Mr. Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Youth and Sports, Mr. Krasen Kralev. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u16	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Before we open the debate, I ask that we put to the vote admission to the House of proposed candidates for ministers who are not MPs. Please vote. Vote 233 MPs: 228, no objection, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the faces to the hall! Before I open the debate, let me introduce you to the time distribution in connection with the implementation of art. 58, para. 1 and 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The political party GERB's parliamentary group has 30 minutes, with an extension under para. 2 - 40 minutes; "BSP for Bulgaria" has 26 minutes, with an extension of 35 minutes; United patriots "NFSB," Attack, IMRO have 14 minutes, with an extension of 18 minutes; The Movement for Rights and Freedoms (DPS) shall have 13 minutes, with an extension of 18 minutes; The political party has 10 minutes after an extension of 13 minutes; Non-members in parliamentary groups have 5 minutes, which remain that long after the extension. Procedure, come in. I'm opening the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! My procedure is to hold the forthcoming debates on the three items on the agenda. I consider, and also according to the Constitution................................................................................................. 84, p. 6, it is clearly written that the National Assembly first elects and releases the Prime Minister accordingly, and on his proposal the Council of Ministers. Before discussing the structure and composition of the Council of Ministers, there should be a separate debate, then a vote on the election of the Prime Minister, then discuss the structure and composition of the Council of Ministers, and then have two votes on the structure and composition of the Council of Ministers. In this regard, there is also a interpretation of the Constitutional Court's Decision No 20 of 1992, according to which the successful conclusion of the study mandate was implemented when the Council of Ministers was elected. It can be selected. The Prime Minister, but not to choose the composition and structure of the Council of Ministers. That is why the actual stage for forming a government is the decision of the National Assembly, which practically has a constitutional effect. When the National Assembly elects The Prime Minister, but refuses to choose the proposed structure and composition of the Council of Ministers, the research mandate is considered unsuccessful. Hypothetically, there is a possibility that even if it does not come to the Prime Minister's choice. Why, then, and in what way, should we discuss his proposed structure and composition? He should, as Prime Minister, propose structure and composition.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u18	Ten seconds to make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u19	That is why my proposal is to have two discussions: the first in terms of the choice of The Prime Minister and the vote respectively, and secondly, discussing the structure and composition of the Council of Ministers and already both votes. In previous Legislatures such a proposal was made by Attack, I think by Mr. Chukolov, and please be consistent in this position because it is both constitutionally appropriate and correct and support the separate vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Reverse procedure? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. A reverse opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u21	A reverse opinion. Dear Mr. Chairman, honored guests, honourable Members of the House! Without questioning the meaning of the settled Constitutional decision, yes, it is, indeed, each of the decisions has its own legal effect, but I ask my fellow Members to comply with the fact that the three decisions are related and underlying. They have a common logic and a common finish. This is the decision by which the Council of Ministers is elected, with which a government is elected. This is exactly what our colleague Philip Popov introduced us to, but this does not determine the division of the debate. I'd like to point out the order of art. 58 of our Rules, according to which the President determines the time for debate. I would also like to refer to the parliamentary tradition in view of all the debates that have been held and carried out with regard to the choice of previous governments. The debate was held together, the vote was separate. Yes, the consequences are the way the colleague read them, but that does not mean that the debate should be mechanically divided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u22	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. We are voting on the proposal made by MP Philip Popov for separate debates on the three draft decisions... [[Heckling]] Okay, for one debate on item one and a general debate on item two and third. You have heard the arguments of the MP Danail Kirilov. Please vote! We are voting on the proposal of MP Philip Popov. Vote 229 MPs: 97 against 119, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. We are moving on to a joint debate on the three draft solutions. You have the floor to speak. I introduced you to the time available to the parliamentary groups. You have the floor, honourable Members, for speeches. No speeches? You have the floor for speech, Mrs. Ninova, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u23	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the faiths, your excellences, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, distinguished guests and colleagues! The Bulgarian BSP will vote against the government proposed by Boyko Borisov for three reasons: the first because of the serious differences in our ideas and programs for the development of the economy, for the fight against poverty, for modern education related to the economy, for accessible health care, for the fight against corruption and crime. In our face you will have an alternative to your program with specific proposals, ideas and reasonable arguments. The second reason why we will not support you is because the governance priorities that you have set now, after the coalition agreement has been concluded, are the rejection of your election promises. This is a government of replacement for what you promised. From beautiful words before the elections there is little left in your programme, which the candidate for prime minister presented. And the third reason why there is no support is because of the uncertainty in Bulgaria that you are betting in the coalition agreement. The first is because of the differences in our programs. I don't think we need to introduce them today. We were in an election campaign. That's where we presented our different priorities. We support the proposed programme and government in the policy, which represents the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, Euro-Atlantic integration, priorities, the future of Bulgaria as a full member of the European Union. I congratulate the United Patriarchs on their growth from Bulgaria out of the European Union and NATO and we will continue in the path of Euro-Atlantic integration. Congratulations! Here, we have one priority on which all parties in this Parliament are absolutely unanimous. Bulgaria's future is the European future! [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria and from the National Representative Boyko Borisov.]] But this is the end of our good feedback on the younger partner in the coalition. I'll start with the policies and the withdrawals from them.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u24	Go! [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u25	That's the kind of retreat they made. First, I read their election promises: urgent increase in the incomes of the Bulgarians, introduction of tax reliefs and legislation against speculation. For one night this promise became the following in your program: income increase at the end of the term, retention of direct taxes... [[Noise, lines and calls.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u26	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u27	Without tax relief, there is no exemption of low income from tax payments, no promised decentralisation of budgets to municipalities. Next, increase the minimum pension for internship and age over 300 BGN. As you know, it won't happen at the end of the year. Reduction of VAT on medicines and textbooks. It will also not happen because the programme is written down: no VAT change, no tax change, no direct taxes, as well as a reduction, and giving tax relief to poor people. Next, studying discipline at school. As you know, it's not in the program, and it's not gonna happen. Next "The Bulgarian Language Act and the right to vote are only graduates of primary education and masters of Bulgarian language. He's out of the program. Six o'clock religious services and rituals in Bulgarian only, raising the Bulgarian flag in front of every religious temple, stopping sound terror from minaret, removing pro-Turkish parties from power. There's nothing like that in the program of the future coalition government. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u28	Please don't call from the spot! You'll have the opportunity to say a few lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u29	7th. Restore the military service and the labor forces. That's not gonna happen. Download of Bulgarian participation and Bulgarian troops from foreign countries. It's not gonna happen. We are against foreign military bases on our territory, as well as against Turkey's accession to the European Union. This is the overall program of the United Patriarchs in the election campaign - 53 promises, and not one in the new program of the future coalition. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Perhaps to correct myself only one, but half, and it is: the creation of the Ministry of Demography of Bulgarians and Bulgarians abroad. Well, there won't be a department like this despite the demographic disaster, but we'll have a deputy prime minister in charge of demography. Only promise kept on a third and not half. This is what the ruling majority says: compromise in the name of Bulgaria. And Mr. Borisov, the future candidate for prime minister, called it overcoming differences. This is not overcoming differences. It's a loss of identity, a political and ideological one of the United Patriarchs as a political party, and because of the people who chose you because of these promises, it's a definite replacement of their will to come to this room because of this election program. I am continuing with the big partner of GERB. And in your programme, colleagues, we strongly support the entire External Policy Section, the European Presidency, a change in the Dublin Agreement, Schengen, the Eurozone, you have our support for this because it is in the interest and future of Bulgaria. However, I quote from your election program: we are able to listen to people and our program is the result of our constant direct contacts and feedback with the people of Bulgaria. Beautiful words, aren't they? But let's see what the people of Bulgaria want in all the studies and you know it because in the campaign we were all among the people of Bulgaria. The main two things I'm going to do is because I don't have time to analyze your entire program, and my colleagues in the group will have the floor after that. I want to talk to you about the two most important priorities of our people and you know them that they are poverty and income, and the topic of security. And it's indicative of the gap between what you've recorded that you'll be listening to the people and the program of your coalition government. Dear colleagues, Mr. Borisov! You must be aware that despite your priority of poverty and income, in your coalition agreement, not once, not even just like that, there is no mention of the word "poorness," that is, your promise that you will comply with the needs of the people does not meet what you have written down. The income back will eventually grow in the future, within the terms of the mandate. Even in your election programme, the promise to increase all pensions from July 1, 2017 by 2.4 percent is no longer available in your coalition agreement. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] In the election program you have provided for additional measures to help the energy weak people. The prices of natural gas, of water, of steam increased, there was a request for an increase in electricity prices. You've given up your coalition agreement on compensation for energy-weak people. Moreover, at the moment when this is problem number one, the prosecution is in the KEWRC, we from BSP asked to hear how they price and burden consumers, do they serve the interests of monopolies? Instead of supporting us, you shut down the KEWRC Parliamentary Commission. What's that?! It's not even a retreat. It is a total change in your policy regarding energy poor people and transparency in combating monopolies. Against the backdrop of this retreat in your income promises, twice you refuse to freeze your wages. But it's not a question of program, it's a question of morality. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'm leaving him without a comment. What, though, will continue according to the coalition government's programme? Two policies will continue, which are generally not bad, but are currently critical. One is the construction of highways. Why do I say critical? Because there is a check of the Prosecutor's Office of Bulgaria, of OLAF in API. Because there are no longer only doubts, but facts of abuse in this construction, recommendations that do not reflect in your program. This construction continues without any correction in these policies. But what's more, on the proposal of the BSP for Bulgaria to make a parliamentary committee and to clear this problem and these doubts, you definitely refused. That's all I'm saying without commenting on why you did it. Another policy that you very much care about is the sanitization and continue in this direction, despite the following conclusion of the office. Thank you, Mr. Gerdjikov. In this conclusion, officially signed by them, writes: "As a result of the bad practices that have been made, the achievement of the objectives of the renovation programme has been called into question. The exceeded reference values, the conclusion of procurement contracts with eligible funding for non-eligible activities, lead to a reduction in the effectiveness of the programme. "Bad practices and defects are subject to change, but require willpower and effort to do so. This signal is also found in the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. Instead of thinking about how to correct these bad practices, you do the opposite. You increase the funding for renovations, but again with a replacement against Bulgarian citizens. Because your election program says that you will increase the funding, in your post-election program that this will happen at the expense of them, that they will have to self-finance. This is the continuation of bad practice, with its even greater deterioration, because you will burden people with it. Let's see another topic that's important to people. Security. The promised increase in the number of employees in the Ministry of Interior by 1,000, in order to have police officers in every settlement, remained somewhere in the election rallies. The promised increase in the number of employees in the Ministry of Defence by 6000 and to strengthen security at the border was also lost somewhere from the tribunes of election meetings to the stands of the National Assembly. Such things will not happen with the government of Boyko Borisov. The desire of the patriots the refugee camps to go to the border and be of the closed type, in GERB is transformed with expansion and strengthening of the centers in Pustrogor and Harmanli. A serious contradiction, right, between future coalition partners on important topics for Bulgaria? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I can continue this way with educational, healthcare, economics and finances, but for this my colleagues from the parliamentary group will have the floor. I would like to focus on the third reason why we will not support you, and it is the mine enshrined in the coalition agreement, where there is a guarantee of uncertainty in this majority, therefore in Bulgaria, in policies and in the future. Why? It says that any partner, outside of this agreement, can pursue a separate policy, seek support and majority in parliament. We all know what this means because we've seen it with reformers, with BDZs, floating majorities, unprincipled alliances. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] It's bad practice. But here comes the big questions about statehood and they are, in my opinion, at least two: the referendum and the amendment of the Constitution. GERB's election programme says the referendum is the number one task and will be the first legislative priority of this government. It turns out, however, that there will be no referendum, despite the confirmation of the opening of parliamentary activity. He's not in your program, my dear. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The referendum, in your opinion, had to do the will of the people. Obviously now, by the will of the patriots and by the power, this will of the people will not happen, because your coalition partner is against it. And it is more important to exercise power than to listen to the will of this referendum. The second big question about statehood is the election commitment of GERB in their program for a new Constitution and the abolition of the immunity of the MPs. And that disappeared somewhere along the way between promises and reality today. Obviously that will no longer be important, despite the desire of millions of people to see us without immunity, and we would support you on that. It is a pity that you have given up both the new Constitution and the benefits of the MPs' immunity and wages. And this is also indicative of the replacement. For us, it is important that we do not hand over these nearly one million people who sent us here. Therefore, we will be a meaningful, reasoned opposition and an alternative to this government. Because the government of Boyko Borisov, if elected, is a complete replacement. This is a total lie to those who supported you because of your ideas before the elections. Because today in your coalition program, in the ideas presented by Mr. Borisov, there is almost no coincidence. And I'm going to say something with regret at the end. I say with regret about Bulgaria... the political class of the status quo continues the same way. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] He gets power in the name of the people, immediately gives up the people and starts exercising it for himself. The cabinet Borisov 3 will be the most vivid example of this replacement of the people's will. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] It's the gap between the political class and our people, and it's increasing. Borisov 3 will contribute to the increase of this gap. It is imperative, the change in the political status quo, in the political class and policies that this class is conducting in Bulgaria is imperative. We, from BSP to Bulgaria, will do everything in our power, today, with the help of a million people, I hope from tomorrow with consistency in fulfilling our commitments, showing new morality in politics [[GERB noise and lines]] , these people become much more. Change is imperative. We're sure we'll get there. We'll go this way without betraying the people who sent us here. Thank you. [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u30	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. First line.. People's representative Krasimir Karakachanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u31	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, honourable Members! When I listened to Mrs. Nino, I understood one thing that people understood before BSP "The United Patriarchs" are an insurmountable factor in the Bulgarian social and political life. Otherwise, this attention that was given to us by the leader of the BSP, there is no other explanation. Thank you, Mrs. Ninova, for the confession. [[Applause from OP.]] Secondly, listening to your speech, I have the feeling that you have not understood that we are now the forty-fourth National Assembly and not the forty-third National Assembly, because you have read the program not of the United Patriotic Front since 2017. [[Private applause from OP.]] Let me remind you, there is now a forty-four common folk assembly. Regarding some criticisms, I take them as a joke. Get me one case when I personally have been against NATO or the European Union or the political force I represent! One case! Just to remind you that until about ten years ago your party was making rallies against Bulgaria's entry into NATO. It's a little nagging, but let's not speculate about that. The pensions. I remind you, dear Mrs. Ninova, that when we voted on the 2017 budget, here in this House, there were only 22 MPs in the Chamber of BSP and six votes did not pass the proposal of the Patriotic Front for 300 BGN minimum pension. [[Private applause from OP.]] Come on, now don't blame us! Third, for the army. I'll remind you of something else. Both in the Defence Committee and in the Chamber, when the Law on the Army was introduced, in the Defence Committee, the most vicious opponents of the return of the military service were the representatives of the BSP to this Commission. And they voted against it both in the Defence Committee and in the Chamber. I'm moving on. The refugees. There is no retreat on the topic of refugees, because if you read carefully the summary of the detailed programme that has been presented to you, you will see that Bulgaria's policy is a policy to prevent illegal immigration. Don't speculate on such a problem. So, dear Mrs. Nino, I call on you to support the government of Mr. Borisov if you want all these things to happen. Thank you. [[Applause from OP and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u33	Dear Mr. Karakachanov, you are now an insurmountable factor. It's a fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u34	That's not true. That's how he chose GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u35	But I regret to say that I doubt that you will enter the next parliament because of this retreat from your election commitments. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I say with regret, because Bulgaria needs a patriotic party. I regret that what you are doing today will lead to the elimination of such a party in Bulgaria. [[Loud noise and lines in OP.]] Your next argument I read was an old program. I take it you don't underestimate me that much. We haven't known each other since yesterday. That's what I read. [[Shows document.]] Here on top it says: "A selection program of the United patriots - NFSB, "Attack" and "IMRO," 2017 "Even with pictures!" And quotes! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're not against NATO. Do not turn back the years, because it will become clear who brought Bulgaria into the European Union and NATO. [[Shouting!]] You are not against NATO personally, but the person sitting next to you from this tribune was addressing the European ambassadors. And now you're in a coalition together! So if you're splitting up now, another argument that this government will be unstable. As for the minimum pension, we will not only support you for 200 BGN. On the contrary, Mr. Karakachanov, we have already submitted to the National Assembly and is in the Ministry a proposal to recalculate all pensions. Now let's see how we solve this. [[Shout and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u36	Please don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u37	Since your coalition agreement says that this is not going to happen, let's see how you, from the Patriotic Front, will vote. The law is in the Ministry and we'll probably discuss it next week. [[Reply of MP Julian Angelov.]] As for the election service, don't tell me what our parliamentary group voted on. We've always had the same position. And whether you import it or GERB, we always vote this way. It is interesting for you that before the elections you are in favour and after the elections you are against. And we are commenting on your program and your government, not our consistent position on a topic from beginning to end. So we reaffirm what I said in my speech and in my ass. Unfortunately, what you are doing today is a serious retreat from election commitments. It's a change of people's will. I have serious doubts that the government will be able to hold a full mandate. One of the reasons would be the disappointment of those who sent you here. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u38	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Any other speeches? We accept that there are no other statements. We're closing the debate. [[Voices from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]] I ask for more vigorous action when someone wants to speak. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable leaders of various religions in Bulgaria, your excellences, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! We in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will vote against the proposed cabinet. At the elections for the Forty-fourth National Assembly there were few unknowns. The main question was: Where are we going after the elections? This issue of great power stands now when we are discussing the composition of the new government. It should be seen in the context of the intensively changing and saturated processes and events of social and political situation in the region, Europe and the world. Following the objectives of democracy, citizens' rights and freedoms and national security, we need to focus both on European problems and, as a country, the President of the European Union, to prepare ourselves to address them on priorities. In addition, Bulgarian citizens expect decisive measures to deal with poverty and the demographic crisis. The government has these tasks ahead of it. Is it even possible to achieve any success? Our answer is rather not. Why? Firstly, the formula for drawing up the ruling majority. GERB chose the coalition for the second time in a row with a coalition of parties. As seen from the previous term, this does not bring stability and reforms that Bulgaria needs. Moreover, in the Forty-third National Assembly, the coalition partner was a sorority coalition of parties from the EPP family. It is now a coalition of nationalist formations, for some reason why they called themselves "United Patriarchs." It is not unnecessary to remind that there is a value wall between nationalism and patriotism. All three formations of the new but old partner of GERB came the way from the showy reputable patriotism, through the aggressive as rhetoric and actions nationalism to reach the present hypocritical nationalism. Hypocritical because they lied to Bulgarian citizens with election promises, which they denied immediately after the elections. They even changed their vocabulary to get into power. But our word is not for them. Making a deputy prime minister for demographic issues, co-chair of a nationalist formation, is a clear example of cynicism. But this will be a separate topic for us. We must also introduce European leaders to the model of this Deputy Prime Minister. The memories are alive, the transcripts are kept regardless of the false lustro. Our word now is for GERB because they are responsible for the power and development of the country. The attempt to hide behind the general phrase is untenable. The people decided that GERB should take responsibility for the country's governance, but how and with whom is the responsibility of GERB. We warn that there is no escape from this responsibility. Secondly, the claim that European commitments and the Presidency of the Council of the European Union require such a cabinet is also false because it does not meet European political practice. In Austria, the Netherlands, France, Slovakia, nationalists are not allowed to rule throughout Europe. In Bulgaria GERB does it for the second time without this being absolutely necessary. We also raise the question of the responsibility of the EPP politicians. In Europe can not with nationalists, in Bulgaria can?! And the DPS will ask them about this double standard in every European political format. Third, the Management Program is simply not available. There are common phrases and wishes in two materials. One is called a coalition agreement. They wrote themselves for a month, and society hypocritically exposed itself to a joint management program. Recent events in the region, especially in the Republic of Macedonia, will put the new cabinet to a special test. We have already heard one of the co-chairs of the nationalist coalition in a timely declaration from the parliamentary tribune saying that it is a fierce struggle for power. It's a superficial and false judgment. GERB is trying to reassure us that the difference between Bulgaria and Macedonia is that we are on a European path of development. Today we want to pay attention to all of them and to the whole Bulgarian society on the following: the unique Bulgarian ethnic model is different in Bulgaria. Let us not rush to send it to the museum of history, let us think about it and make it our national ideal in the interests of the people and of the state, of all Bulgarian citizens, without lies and demagogy, without populism and false patriotism. We preach unity and unity, tolerance and peace. These things can unite us. They are a condition for our common future. They can create a majority on a value basis and it would guarantee stability and security in the country. Why, then, did the largest political power in the National Assembly have to be co-financed with a complex coalition form in the first place? To blurt out responsibility so that there is no clear political responsibility. The main mission and responsibility of politicians is enlightened leadership, without which their very existence loses meaning. Working for the prosperity of his constituents, this leadership is not afraid to protect them from their own delusions and mistakes. Any compromise, lack of courage and political will in this direction, submission of.. liked momentary solutions, exclusion policy with target ethnic minorities and refugees, stubbornly with a sign of equality with immigrants, eroticizes democracy, politicians themselves and their long-term formations. Sooner or later, regardless of the replacement and the lies, the people will ultimately wisely judge and judge. But who will pay for lost time? The greatest political power now. She will pay the highest price for her irresponsibility today. We must choose stability instead of crisis, national responsibility and speaking instead of populism and nationalism, and nationalist rhetoric. However, this seems impossible today because of a short-sighted party policy, because of a lack of government thinking, willpower and determination for the courageous leadership of the state. This will be a difficult term for GERB. The bad news is that this will be a difficult period for all Bulgarian citizens and for democracy in Bulgaria. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Without emphasising Bible truth, the wind is reaping storms, calling for more reason and wisdom, both parliamentary parties and coalitions, and new ministers. Everyone should be responsible for their service in the name of the people and of Bulgaria. And remember that he is responsible for the state of society, for the situation of Bulgarian citizens, for peace within the country, for peace with the neighbours, for the European development of the country, for the future of the Union. The movement for rights and freedoms will not support and strongly condemn any manifestation of division and hatred, any demonstration of intolerance, ethnic and religious opposition. We call for a model of behaviour to ensure stability and security, European development and peace. Bulgaria must be part of a democratic Europe as an alternative to authoritarian populism worldwide. Let's save Bulgaria! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Do you have any lines, fellow Members? I won't. To speak, the public representative Veselin Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u41	Dear Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Ministers, Dear representatives of the religions in Bulgaria, Your excellences! Disgracefully they sound from this high tribune that there were no more patriots in the Bulgarian Parliament. I would like to assure you that we may be little in this Parliament, but that is why we will be more in the next because the political party will never give up on our main task here. We will work in such a way as to protect the interests of the Bulgarian people. This is the work of every patriot. If you don't consider yourself a patriot, I want to assure you that we will never give up on these commitments. Today we are faced with a huge challenge and we should be responsible. We have three possible options: to elect the government of the largest parliamentary party with a candidate for Prime Minister Borisov. If it doesn't work, let's elect a government of the second largest party represented by BSP, with a candidate for Prime Minister Cornelia Ninova or to go immediately to new elections. Today, neither the state nor the people nor the business are interested in chaos. On the contrary, we all have an interest in stable, dynamic governance for the benefit of people so that the results can be seen tomorrow. At the President's consultations, we said that we cannot participate in a government that legitimizes ultimate nationalism. We said that if there are bright representatives of extreme nationalism in Bulgaria, we cannot participate in such a government. But we, from the political party, believe that every Bulgarian citizen has the right to a second chance. Therefore, we are willing to compromise with the names, but we will never compromise with the cases. On the contrary, we start monitoring them under a magnifying glass from now on. We will give support to the government at this stage, but we will not give it only 100 days of tolerance, but not one day. From the first day on, from today we will start monitoring under a magnifying glass every action of every minister and of the government as a whole, whether the ministers observe the oath given to the National Assembly and work only in the interests of the Bulgarian people. Mr. Borisov, I would like to address you personally in the end: we expect you to justify the trust of political formation, which we are giving you today in advance. I wish you not only to be remembered as a person who for the third time has a chance to form a government, but to implement a large part of the pragmatic programme of the political party "Volja" to stay in history as a successful prime minister. I will provide you with a written version of what I have said right now, and I will even sign it for you to remember the promises you make today, and remember that we from the political party will see to it that you fulfill them. In the name of the prosperity of the Bulgarian state and the prosperity of the Bulgarian people we wish success of the management formation, made up of political party GERB and coalition. God save Bulgaria! [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Are there any lines? I won't. The following MPs are recorded for speeches: Zhelyo Boychev, Mikhail Hristov, Christian Vigenin, Valeri Zablyanov and Georgi Hristov The word has the popular representative Zhelyo Boychev. Before Mr. Boychev begins, show me the remaining time of the group to guide the colleagues. Here you are, dear Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u43	In fact, I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, to extend the time of our parliamentary group and the other groups. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, today we must vote on the proposed structure and personnel of the government. It is broadcast by a majority, which has been negotiating for more than a month, or the more accurate word has been on the agenda for a coalition agreement and for management priorities. And I have come out today with these management priorities of this tribune. What does the brief review of management priorities show? What they are shining with is the lack of concrete commitments and clear objectives in two main areas of this government's financial and economic policy. What is offered to us in the financial sphere? Reaching a balanced 2020 budget; sustainable growth in income, of course, without any specifics. All the other objectives are the result of our Treaty of Accession to the European Union. What is in economic policy in these priorities? Eliminate administrative burden for business. It's the most on-duty promise any government makes. Support and development of the capital market. That's good. Note the next priority:..enhanced post-privatization control. How can this be a management priority? Is this the job and commitment of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency? And if we say there isn't one, why are we proposing the current chairman of the Agency as a minister? Is this an assessment of his work or is it an assessment of the very controversial transactions that the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control carried out under his supervision? But somewhere in these difficult, difficult and lengthy negotiations came the election commitments and promises of the United patriots..................... to release the minimum income from taxes................ for medicines and textbooks........... and decentralisation of some of the taxes for the Bulgarian municipalities. We cannot support this government because there is no intention and desire for structural modernisation of the Bulgarian economy. There is no commitment at all to link the economy with education, science and innovation, not a word about the role of the state and the budget to promote economic growth, investment and domestic consumption. I recall that last year it was government consumption that had a counterproductive effect on the country's economic growth. There is no word to support the Bulgarian producers and the Bulgarian exports. One of your biggest failures so far was attracting foreign investment. I recall that for 2016 you have 680 million. EUR, which was 1 billion less than the corresponding for 2015. And here in this Programme, there is not a single word about how you will work in this area. Without having anything from the management program, we must judge the government's actions on the personnel of the proposed ministers. As I know Minister Goranov's previous activities, it is clear to me that we are looking at an extremely right-wing and conservative policy, a policy focused on achieving certain financial indicators and researching fiscal consolidation at the expense of social problems and incomes. After all, Mr. Borisov, you promised change and priorities in your policy. Instead, you're offering us the same thing again. I remember your first slogan of the Programme:..to turn people's fears into hope for the nation....but the only thing I can think of by reading your management priorities and looking at the staff of the cabinet is:..Hope here each leave. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Are there any lines? I won't. To speak, the people representative Mihail Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u45	Dear Mr. President, honourable caretaker government, honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the House! In Bulgaria there are officially 7 million. 158,000. Souls. Also officially around 800,000. of them are people with disabilities, 29,000 of them are children. Under the Constitution, we are a parliamentary republic and according to the same Constitution in art. 6 is written: All people are born free and equal in dignity and rights. But do these words actually mean something, and the above-mentioned figures won't just remain numbers, because until recently, I was in those numbers, too, and I still am? In Bulgaria, raising a child with disabilities is extremely difficult and not because of the children themselves, and not because of the disabilities themselves, but because of the system in which parents are forced to do so. Eighty percent of these children do not attend regular school and, again, I will repeat, not because of the children themselves and not because of their disabilities, but because of the system in which they are forced to be. A parent with a disabled child sometimes has to not work for almost a lifetime. The reason for this is that these children really need continuous and daily care. I do not believe that the help the state gives to these children is sufficient, and if you do not believe me on May 17th before the National Assembly the mothers and fathers of these children and the children themselves will be gathered. You can ask them this question because according to them the amount of 350 or 490 BGN, which is usually granted for the assistance of these children, is not enough, and this amount is frozen by 2019, according to the government's estimates. I can't support a government that doesn't care about 800,000. souls and they're not their priority. In order not to be hypocrites, these children are neither free nor equal because they spend much of their time either in hospital rooms or in their homes. Don't let yourself, God, that these children have to be treated, and that it depends on the Children's Treatment Fund, in most cases the signature slows down fatally. Dear Members of Parliament, we are all guided by the interest of the people, we have sworn on this. The people are both these children and those people with disabilities. I don't know how often you'll see me on this stand, but I promise you one thing when the interest of the people is impaired, I'll try to protect them, because, ladies and gentlemen, I swore on this. Thank you. [[(Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Are there any lines? I won't. For a statement there is the popular representative Christian Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u47	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, honourable Members! I congratulate you, Mr. Borisov, for getting the voter's trust to form a third time government. The result, however, does not impress. You had a unique chance you were wasting. If you do the same thing twice and it ends the same way twice, you should not expect the third attempt to end differently. I also congratulate you on the fact that GERB again takes full responsibility for Bulgarian foreign policy. Giving the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a concession in the previous term brought many negatives to Bulgaria and to your management. I will note, however, that you quickly forgot the lesson with the first foreign minister you elected Rumyana Jeleva. Paradoxically in this cabinet you turn out to be the person with the greatest experience in foreign policy and from now on the responsibility will be not just GERB, but personally yours. I ask: could it seem to be a solid minister who, within four years, in a third cabinet, takes on a third portfolio, after regional and judicial, already external? You patriots are signing your complete surrender today. After giving up everything and accepting the foreign policy priorities of GERB, today with your vote you will open the door to one rejected by the people and strongly criticised by you the foreign policy line itself that of former President Rosen Plevneliev. I congratulate you, Mr. Borisov, for maintaining the post of Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. On this issue you can count on our cooperation because this is important for Bulgaria. However, we do not understand, with all due respect to Mrs. Pavlova: how exactly do you place a person in this position, who is currently under serious suspicion of abuse of European money? [[Reply from the National Representative Lilyana Pavlova.]] What do you tell the partners with this? Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, we have no high expectations, but we will not approach you with prejudice. We will judge you on the ability to conduct a decent foreign policy in the name of the security of citizens, the authority of Bulgaria, the stability of the Balkans and the Black Sea region, the normalization of relations with Russia and whether we will enter Schengen and whether the mechanism for cooperation and evaluation will fall. We will judge you on whether you will ensure the interaction between President, Parliament and Government, or you will fight Punic wars, as your predecessors from GERB governments did with Georgi Parvanov and Rumen Radev. Looking for such an interaction may not make you popular, but it will make you useful. We will judge you by whether you will enter the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the self-esteem of infallibility, or listen to the advice of experienced diplomats. Will you continue and deepen the politicization of the office, or will you bet on professionalism?! We will judge you on whether you will protect the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from invading his property, such as your future colleague Emil Karanikolov, who I am actually asking who and why he proposed to be a minister. Will you fight as Deputy Prime Minister for a worthy budget and stabilisation of the diplomatic service, or will the collapse become irreversible?! I will end with the words that an ambassador to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs welcomed me in 2013: Mr Vigenin, you are the nineteenth minister with whom I will work. You will be his twenty-first minister, and soon the twenty-two will come, be sure to use your time fully, leave something good behind, work for Bulgaria, we will follow your every move. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I won't. For speech there is the popular representative Valeri Zablyanov, after him the national representative Georgi Hristov, and after him the folk representative Slavcho Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u49	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, ambassadors, guests! Today, as National Assembly, we are called to elect the third government of the Political Party GERB. What is suggested by both the programme and by the statements of the representatives of the future majority is a single word................................................................................................ Continuity in politics, in its results, continuity in poverty, continuity in unresolved relations with the neighbours of the Balkans, continuity in the unpredictable adoption of the conservative financial and economic policy of the European Commission. Here I would like to highlight something that may be good at the very beginning of the government to remember Mr. future prime minister. The Bulgarian people, regardless of the results of the elections, do not want the commitment, they want change. The Bulgarian people will complain if you offer him continuity. You need to be ready to change the country's economic policy - not incomes, economic policy, because incomes come from economic policy. In your applications in these priorities I have not heard, I have not seen, and I doubt that such a change can be made. You should be ready to change the state of the labor relations in the country. The work of the Bulgarian workers is robbed daily by the low rates, by the high taxes and by the unscrupulous employers. You should be ready to change Bulgaria's foreign policy. This continuity that you stated at the beginning will turn out to be the only country that will be the successor to this failed policy. I would like to assure you that the Bulgarian Socialist Party will be in its place as an opposition based on its previous party and election platform, in which we are setting up another society in Bulgaria. Today's society does not like anyone, today's demographic crisis is the result of this society and this relationship. And your third term will not be successful, because what we see in the platform will take you where you ended the first two times in a growing discontent of Bulgarian citizens. In one case you went to early parliamentary elections, in the second case you lost the President. Do not think that what the Bulgarian people did in the presidential elections is some temporary confusion or deviation from the policy that has been followed until today. This was an assessment of government policy and this assessment is a secret. It will be preserved and it will be written in the first moment when you demonstrate the return of old politics to Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u51	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u52	I'm listening to procedure. I would like to warn you that I will not allow any deviation from our yota procedure, and I will strictly apply the rule so that there is no abuse of rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u53	I couldn't agree more, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. You, as President of the National Assembly, should monitor the order in plenary and in the National Assembly. It is obvious and please, you have the signal and bell in question, invite the honourable MPs from GERB to attend the Chamber, because it is not their duty to vote only with the red button, in this case the green one, but also to be present in the debates themselves! Invite them to support their government! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u54	Do not take care of the MPs from GERB as well as everyone else. Have an attitude towards your group. Are there any lines? I won't. For speech there is the word of the people representative Georgi Mihaylov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u55	Dear Mr. President, Mr. President, honourable guests, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable ministers, honourable Mr. Borisov, honourable candidates for ministers! Health is a major factor for the stability and development of Bulgarian society. Health policy in the modern modern world will be one of the main criteria for effective policy. Unfortunately, in the programme signed by you in the chapter............ there are only common.... which in no way show the way to solve the very serious issues of Bulgarian healthcare. There is nothing concrete to suggest the solution of the cardinal question for the financing of the health system, which is currently being carried out by a financially inadequate, compromised model and practically humiliating Bulgarian doctors and Bulgarian medical professionals, turning them into fictitious traders. There are no ideas for changing the volume of funds detaching from public resources healthcare, which are clearly insufficient. Totally incomprehensible from both professional and legal point of view is the concept mentioned in the program of the National Health Insurance Fund. Either there is a monopoly, or it is removed with the indication of an exact alternative. There is no real solution to the problems: the importance of the National Health Card, the need to comply with the development of the network of medical institutions depending on the needs of the population in individual regions. The very fact that the management of GERB revealed a serious number of medical institutions in certain settlements, mainly talking about the service of certain, corporate interests. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u56	Your time is up, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u57	I'm sorry. One second since I couldn't finish my speech. Because I know professor. Petrov as a worthy Bulgarian doctor and manager, I would like to address him specifically as future minister: Prof. Petrov, put aside the non-professional and general wordings and turn to the very serious problems of Bulgarian healthcare! You will thus receive the support of the entire society, of the entire professional guild and of every worthy parliamentarians in this Chamber. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u58	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Are there any speeches from other parliamentary groups? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u59	Dear Mr. President, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members of the House, honored guests, your superbs! As the President of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has already said, the DPS parliamentary group will not support any of the three decisions proposed, but I would like to focus on some aspects of our motives to do so. Bulgaria really needs stability, needs to break the process of political instability not only because we continue to be the poorest country in Europe, not only because Bulgarian citizens expect adequate protection, work, rights and so on, but also because the situation in the region is extremely complex. The European Union itself is in crisis. We do have a Presidency of the Council of the European Union, but... Dear colleagues of GERB, we do not find that with what you are offering us right now, at least one of the three of these tasks is being solved. On the contrary, the lessons learned from the previous term are evidently only for those who have been able to read it carefully. We see with great regret that GERB did not do this. This type of coalition does not bring stability, does not bring reformist potential. It is also evident from the compromise management programme, stated only as priorities, is also evident from the cabinet's composition, is evident from everything that is happening in this month. However, I would like to draw your attention to the future Prime Minister Mr. Boyko Borisov and GERB on the following. The movement for rights and freedoms will not accept that for the second time you are bringing the ultimate nationalists into power, and this time directly with a coalition agreement, not as supporting the parliamentary majority political coalition of nationalist parties. Because it is a European principle. The movement for rights and freedoms is part of a very important part of the Bulgarian political life, of public life, which provided the European future of Bulgaria [[(VOICE TO THE RIGHT: It was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, ……]] and therefore we will not allow this European future to be mined with non-European principles. Europe doesn't do that! Europe is fighting this! But the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is the only party in Bulgaria that has reason, its own reason, derived from its own history, to say that this principle is its party, its public, its political principle! Let me remind you that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms arose as a battle of a whole ethnicity for rights and freedoms, as a battle of the leaders of this movement, of the founder of the movement Dr. Ahmed Dogan, who was also imprisoned, defending the rights and freedoms in order for all Bulgarians to live equally, all ethnics equal! The movement for rights and freedoms cannot agree to the final nationalists who deny these principles being brought into power! And we will bring this battle to Europe! Mr. Borisov, we'll carry her...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u60	Enichar!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u61	Don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u62	Because there GERB will also have to answer the following questions whose words are for an entire ethnicity: Therefore, the DPS will ask: can such a person be Deputy Prime Minister of European Bulgaria? [[Applause from DPS.]] The party that fights for the rights and freedoms of all ethnic groups, the party that defends true patriotism, unifying patriotism, the party that has supported and will support GERB and all other parties... [[Replys from the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u63	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u64	And I will support GERB and all other parties that are fighting for the European future of Bulgaria. But this approach to form such a coalition, the DPS does not accept and this battle will be carried out in Europe. Thank you for your attention! [[(Reply to the right: goodbye!) Claps by DPS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u65	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate, moving on to the vote. I present to your attention the following: Project! DECISION on the election of Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 6 and art. 108 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with Decree No 119 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 May 2017. HAS DECIDED He elected Boyko Metodiev Borisov as Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please vote. Vote 233 MPs: 133 against 100 abstentions. [[Extreme applause from GERB and OP.]] Wait till I announce the results! [[Applause.]] The Prime Minister of Bulgaria is named Boyko Borisov for the third time. [[The National Representatives of GERB and OP stand up and applaud the Prime Minister.]] First negative vote "The People's Representative Anton Kutev." You have the floor, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u66	Dear Members of Parliament, Dear Ministers, Dear Guests! Dear Mr. Borisov, I voted against it because this speech that you gave, you gave here two and a half years ago in November 2014. In it you scored 11 goals. That's what you called them. I read them carefully, and I see that none of them have been fulfilled. Not one of them! [[Arrival in GERB.]] Among these 11 goals there is an example: To outline a clear perspective for development for at least a decade ahead. I don't think that happened. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Among them, there is: To achieve rapid and significant economic growth, to create new jobs. That didn't happen!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u67	How? Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u68	At least the citizens of Bulgaria do not know if it happened. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Perhaps you are the only one who is aware of the new jobs. To ensure national and energy independence of the country. Especially for the energy sector, zero difference for those last two years! [[Relations of MP Stanislav Ivanov.]] However, this is not the only problem of this government and of your personal presence as Prime Minister. One of your current coalition partners on the same day then, in November 2014, told you the following. He told you that in your previous government you will not touch the flat tax, you will not touch the foreign monopolies, you will not touch the current, you will not expel the US thermal power stations, you will not reduce the price of renewables: There is no way you can do it! Now this man is your coalition partner and I am telling you that you as prime minister with these coalition partners cannot do any of these things. Why did he agree to be your coalition partner, it's a mystery to me, but I'm sure that like you didn't until now, so you won't do it from now on. That's why I can't support you! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Second negative vote on the national representative Krum Zarkov, and third one on the national representative Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u70	Dear Mr. President, honourable officials, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Mr. Borisov! I voted against the proposed cabinet and its structure... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u71	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u72	...mostly because of the changes you make in the structure in terms of judicial or judicial reform.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u73	It's not that vote, it's not a cabinet!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u74	Besides being similar, she's very disturbing. It makes us think that justice reform would be more of a spectacle. [[noise and lines]] , dedicated mainly to foreigners, to the monitoring institutions and European ambassadors. [[Relations of MP Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u75	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u76	This is important, but I voted against it, because I believe that we will never conduct a quality judicial reform unless we Bulgarians accept that we need such that it is not merely checked in a monitoring report that it is a purely human need for justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u77	Here, here!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u78	So, dear Mr. Borisov...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u79	Please order in the court! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u80	...please reconsider your position that you will continue with what has been done so far in the judiciary. Change it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. And the third negative vote is the public representative Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u82	Dear Mr. President, Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I voted against Mr. Boyko Borisov's candidacy for Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria for the third time because in his speech he could not convince me that he had learnt lessons from the previous two times. He couldn't convince me that he learned from his lessons because the management program he offered us is very far from what was like the real promises for Bulgaria in their election program. In fact, this management program is a turglugüvec, in which everything is gathered in one place with an attempt to get out of any contradiction between the individual programs. And it was able to do that when it was taken from everything that was in either party's program, if there was anything for the ordinary person. In fact, this management program is a heated meal from the previous two managements of Mr. Borisov. And lastly, with this vote, Mr. Borisov, I tried to do you a friendly service so you wouldn't have to resign again, the third time. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. We are now going to vote on the second draft decision. Project! DECISION adopting the structure of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Article 7 108 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria consists of: Prime Minister, four Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers. The ministers run separate ministries. 2. The ministers are: Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Education and Science, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Environment and Water, Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Energy, Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of Youth and Sport. 3. The Ministry for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union is hereby established. 4. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food is transformed into the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. 5. Instructs the Council of Ministers, within one month, to arrange all matters relating to the establishment and transformation of ministries, including their functions. Please, voting mode. Vote 234 MPs: 135 against 99, no abstentions. The draft decision has been adopted. [[World applause from GERB and shouts: "Bravo! "]] Revoting procedure someone hasn't been able to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask for a re-vote, there are many emotions. [[Laughter, noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u85	Revoting procedure. We're going over the draft decision. I expect to increase the number of voters, and it is the same as in the previous vote. [[Heckling]] How do you vote, how do you vote? Against, we're reading a voice against a voice. Vote 235 MPs: 134 against 101, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[World and long applause by GERB.]] Negative vote. The people's representative Ivan Ivanov, after him is Georgi Gokov, and after him is Ivo Hristov three negative votes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u86	Dear Mr. President, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable representatives of religion, Your Excellency, honourable colleagues! I voted against this third edition of the cabinet Borisov because in the presented Programme, especially in the security sector and the Ministry of Interior, we saw nothing new. The previous edition of the future government, ladies and gentlemen, was remembered only by a failed or rather premature attempt to reform the Ministry of Interior and, as the minister of service said yesterday, failed. The future governance will certainly also be another right step along the road leading to the disaster of the sector Security as a whole. You have presented to the public a management programme in which the part about internal security and public order is filled with unfulfilled promises, incorrect wordings and repetitions of what has already happened during the two unfinished mandates of GERB. With the scale of domestic crime that depopulate entire areas, the government is now promised to continue on the same path and build on their policies. Our expectations are on your part of systematic and unsuccessful attempts to form the sector, which compromise not only the importers, the political leadership of the Ministry and the services, but also everyone who supports such an approach. The result will be: immeasurable negative consequences such as permanent destabilization of the sector and will, above all, increase citizens' mistrust of the fact that the Ministry of Interior as an institution has the capacity to guarantee their security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Second negative vote on the public representative Ivo Hristov. Will there be a third? Mrs. Elena Yoncheva for the third vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u88	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I voted against the proposed structure for the Council of Ministers because I do not know if you have consulted, according to the Tarnovo Constitution, there were initially only six ministries, then became 8 and finally 10. At the moment we have over 20 ministries and notice, in a small unhappy Bulgaria we have four, notice, four Deputy Prime Ministers! I guess it's like an analogy to the Armenian theater where all the chairs were number one so they wouldn't have anyone to fight with. And my second motive is this: an amazing structure has this Council of Ministers, in which a foreign minister is responsible for judicial reform, which, as has already been said, means that this is a reform for foreigners and that we do not expose ourselves to them, which is why I propose you to the Ministry, which is created for holding the European Presidency, to attach this to them. And let's get this over with. Obviously Bulgarian citizens do not need judicial reform, it weighs on all of us. Thank you. [[Lowered applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u89	Thank you. You have the floor, Mrs. Yoncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u90	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Chairman, ministers, guests, MPs! I voted against the election of Boyko Borisov as Prime Minister... [[Noise and shouting from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u91	That was point one.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u92	... I voted against the new structure because every government of yours creates instability for Bulgaria; because every government of yours has disastrous consequences for our country. During your term of office there has been a dramatic drop of confidence in the Bulgarian institutions! People no longer have any faith in politicians, in media, in the judiciary. You consistently lower the role of the Bulgarian Parliament! A few days ago, your parliamentary majority took away one of the achievements of Bulgarian democracy. So you intend to hide from the questions of the Bulgarian citizens...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u93	Mrs. Yoncheva, but this has nothing to do with the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u94	...you think media control is provided for you!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u95	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u96	Yes, Bulgaria is at the bottom of the European Union on freedom of the media! The trend during your management has deteriorated dramatically from 35th place in 2006, we are now 109th. You are leading a foreign policy that is servile! You trade in Bulgarian sovereignty with Bulgarian national interest! You are turning Bulgaria from an energy factor in the Balkans into an energy beggar! I am voting against it because BSP as a pro-European party cannot fail to hear the words [[(crowd cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, ……]] , by his overseas partner, told about the management of Boyko Borisov in 2016. In a report of the State Department of the United States of America for Bulgaria for 2016 we read: "Accessants in all branches of the government are involved in corruption practices with impunity! Corruption practices include bribery, conflict of interest, complex embezzlement schemes... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB, shouts: "Eeeee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u97	Your time is up, Mrs. Yoncheva. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.........)............................................................................................. National Representative Elena Yoncheva continues to speak with microphones off.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u98	First of all, this has nothing to do with the votes. [[Extreme applause from GG to BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're running out of time. We are going to vote on the third draft decision for the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Quaestors, please invite His Holiness Neofit, Patriarch of Bulgaria to the Chamber. [[Incoming Patriarch Neophyte. Everyone gets up.]] Project! DECISION on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 6 and art. 108 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1.Select: - Tomislav Peykov Donchev for Deputy Prime Minister, - Valeri Simeonov Simeonov for Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy, - Krassimir Donchev Karakachanov as Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence, - Ekaterina Spasheva Gecheva-Zaharieva for Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs, - Vladislav Ivanov Goranov for Minister of Finance, - Valentin Ivanov Radev for Minister of the Interior, - Nikolay Nankov Nankov for Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, - Bisser Hristov Petkov for Minister of Labour and Social Policy, - Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska for Minister of Justice, - Krasimir Georgiev Valchev for Minister of Education and Science, - Nikolay Kirilov Petrov for Minister of Health, - Lilyana Pavlova Nikolova for Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, 2018, - Boil Vassilev Banov for Minister of Culture, - Neno Nenov Dimov for Minister of Environment and Water, - Rumen Andonov Porozhanov for Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests, - Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski for Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, - Emil Lyubenov Karanikolov for Minister of Economy, - Temenuzhka Petrova Petkova for Minister of Energy, - Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova for Minister of Tourism, - Krasen Kirilov Kralev for Minister of Youth and Sports. 2. The powers of the caretaker government appointed by Decree No 58 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria on 24 January 2017 have been terminated. Please vote on the draft decision. Vote 234 MPs: 133 against 101, no abstentions. The draft decision has been adopted. For the first negative vote is the word of the people's representative Ercan Ebatin, for the second one Mr. Gokov, for the third negative vote Mr. Mareshki. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Do you think only BSP is entitled to a negative vote? [[Extreme lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u99	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members, Your Eminence, Your Eminences, Mr. President! I voted against institutionalizing extreme nationalists in executive power, Mr. Prime Minister! It's a danger to national security. I voted against people who are anti-European and anti-NATO-based, what was part of their policy. They don't hide who they are. They abuse our mothers and fathers at the border. I want to know how you will feel in Europe with such faces! As much as you explain that this cabinet is pro-European, this cabinet is anti-European, colleagues! [[Noise and lines.]] I voted against a breakthrough in the national security and sovereignty of our country, our homeland, because in the context of political instability in the region, in the Balkans, in the world as a whole, a cabinet structured by this type poses a threat to national security! [[Noise and lines.]] I voted against it because this cabinet is broadcasting a political message of division and hatred. You cannot treat our people, part of our nation, part of the Bulgarian nation in this way and humiliate our community in this way with such political messages! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I want to address our people, our mothers and fathers and tell them that the DPS is here, the DPS has been with them and the DPS will continue to protect our interests and national security of the country. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u100	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. [[Applause from DPS.]] Second negative vote on the people's representative Georgi Gokov. You have another right to a negative vote, as Mr. Mareshki participates in the debates and has no right to a negative vote, the People's Representative Slavcho Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u101	Mr. President, Mr. Chairman, Mr. newly elected Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister and Ministers, and former ministers, honourable Members! I voted against the fact that drafting this cabinet with these ministers was not a result of reasonable concessions and compromises, but to justify the exercise and consumption of power. I voted against it because the programme intentions which the future leaders ambitiously called the management priorities do not reflect the election commitments of both coalition partners. Their management program aims to suggest that the newly formed coalition has strong grounds to govern, but it is more like a coven of unfulfilled promises, nonsense, clichés and many compromises and betrayal by the United Patriarchs. In practice, the following happened: you vote for Karakachanov, Siderov and Simeonov, you get Borisov and Tsvetanov. I did not support this government because there is no vision for social policy and the social perspective of the Bulgarians. The priorities for governance sparkle with the absence of any priorities, especially in social policy, and there were the biggest election promises. The question of 300 leva is key. pension. What was discussed on this topic was extremely and pointlessly populist during the elections, bringing many voices to the United Patriarchs, but when the time came to consume power and this issue was brought out key in the negotiations, and the pensioners two or three days were happy to rub their hands that the United Patriarchs would defend their interests with teeth and claws, it became clear that as a result of severe negotiations and compromises the new coalition partners decided to screw the pensioners: there will be no 300 leva. Retirement! I voted against it because you have no intentions and no serious measures for the worst problems: poverty, increasing inequalities and a demographic disaster. There are also no commitments to the reproductive problems of families.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u102	You have 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u103	I think that with the act of election of this government, the Forty-fourth National Assembly made a serious compromise. This will not result in the early termination of his term of office. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u104	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Third negative vote, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u105	Procedure! It makes sense now before the third negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u106	Come on in, then, if it makes sense, let's all see what the point is. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is connected and it really makes sense to be before the last negative vote, because several people have already called me to say that after we transferred the direct transmission that should be going right now from Channel 1 to BNT 2, it turns out that for negative votes this does not happen and does not give up, i.e. BNT 2 interrupts the transmission after the other speeches and before negative votes [[Noise, lines and banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]] After the previous steps, that's too much. Maybe you don't know, but you're the one who has to regulate it. I ask that this be corrected and that the negative votes, which are part of the entire debate, be broadcast as it should be and as it has always been before!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u108	Of course. The only thing I can do is ask the tape to let them go. Otherwise, I don't see how it's gonna work. Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Tsonev. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u109	Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct, and most well-meaning. You have the right, Mr. Chairman, to interrupt the second minute, you even have the duty, but remember, Mr. Chairman, this is the Bulgarian Parliament, here is the spirit of parliamentaryism and formalism by a few seconds is not a practice in the last 27 years. Let's respect our colleagues. You're first between equals. You are the spokesperson of the Bulgarian Parliament and we expect you to have an idea of at least greater respect for those who speak. This is in the interests of the entire institution. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u110	Thank you. I take it you're calling me not to follow the rules of procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u111	To observe the spirit, not the letter.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u112	Okay, thank you. Here's your third negative vote, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President, Your Holiness, Dear Ministers, Mr. Prime Minister, [[GERB's lines: the map, the map!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I love you, too. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u114	Please place your card.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u115	I would like to express the motive for the negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u116	Lock on to Mr. Velkov's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u117	Yes, thank you for reminding me. I thought the right expression was, "Put your card on, not "Put it on." [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u118	As you wish, just place it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u119	For the defence sector and for policies. I believe that some of the people who have been elected ministers, with all due respect to the others, will not be able to provide with their actions those ambitious tasks they have set themselves.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u120	Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u121	I'll tell you, of course. What you are betting that the Bulgarian Army is a reliable guarantor of the country's security, you are making a copy-past from the Constitution. And most of all, notice the face of threats against our country where they are born. Do you really, Mr. Borisov and Mr. Karakachanov, think that we can face threats in the real and medium, and wide Middle East where they are born? Two countries in the world afford it, and they are not very successful at it "the United States of America and Russia. Please, why did you steal the call of the glorious paratroopers: The parachutists go where others cannot, and put it at your sixth point? [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you very much. Be safe and sound. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. I ask the elected Prime Minister and the elected ministers to order an oath. Please repeat after me. [[Everyone's up. The Prime Minister and the members of the Council of Ministers are lining up around the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u123	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore. [[Applause. The anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union sound.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-04.u124	Congratulations! [[Applause.]] Prime Minister, please sign your vows to the Holy Gospel and Holy Cross. [[Minister President Boyko Borisov signs the vowed list, baptizes, kisses the Cross, the Gospel and the hand of Patriarch Neofit.]] Gentlemen ministers, here are your vowed sheets. Congratulations to all elected Prime Minister, ministers! That's what I'm closing today's meeting. Next regular plenary session tomorrow at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
