ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to include the following additional points in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly: 1. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. Imported by the Health Committee on 5 July 2017. We propose that this will become point two for today, Thursday, July 6, 2017. 2. First vote on Bills amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 10 May 2017; Plamen Hristov, Albena Naydenova, Polina Tsankova on 12 May 2017; Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017; Christian Mitev and a group of MPs on 4 July 2017. We propose that this be point one tomorrow, Friday, July 7, 2017. I would like to make a statement on the second item of the bill amending the Law on the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2017, which was adopted in the first vote on 28 June 2017, to become the third item for today..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Please vote. Voted 182 MPs: 170, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Message: On 5 July 2017, a joint draft of the Draft Laws amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted at the first vote on 30 June 2017. The draft was drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the grounds of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the adoption of the bills of first voting, the Members of the National Assembly voted on the time limit for written proposals to be 10 days from the submission of the General Project. The period shall be until 17 July 2017, including. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: REPORT OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON LEARNING THE CASES OF UNPAYED COMPLAINTS AND PROJECT FOR THE REPORT DECISION. The report will be presented to you by the President of the Commission
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, Report on the activities of the Temporary Commission to investigate the cases of paid salaries. The Commission was set up for a period of two months. I would just like to make one point that the report that we have presented to your attention and which I will introduce to this House is divided into three main parts - a major report with two applications. Annex 1 in which we have commented on the legislative initiative of the Ombudsman and the CST with attached opinions of a possible large number of countries and organisations concerned. The second part of Annex No 2, we have come up with a proposal for a joint legislative initiative, that is, proposals around which we have all united, and after a possible adoption of the report with colleagues from the Commission, we have given ourselves a deadline. You know that it was drawn up on a money-bearing principle to submit proposals within a week that we have supported. The Commission's task is to collect, summarize and analyse data on cases of due but unpaid salaries by employers. During our first meeting, the MPs united around the idea, based on the identified problems, to initiate changes in the current legislation (although this was not the subject of the decision), which ultimately contributed to preventing and reducing the cases of non-payment of wages and benefits to workers by their employers. At our first meeting, held on 10 May 2017, information on cases of due but unpaid salaries was presented by the Ombudsman of the Republic Mrs. Maya Manolova, the Executive Director of the Executive Agency In her speech Mrs. Manolova stressed that the topic with incorrect employers in Bulgaria has been for decades. No one's ever hired to solve this problem before. The analysis of the cases described in the complaints shows that there are shortcomings in the legislation which allow dishonest and incorrect employers to benefit from them, namely: 1. In case of financial difficulties, often the employer transfers the enterprise to a socially weak person, usually this person is of Roma origin. This is the case with Eko Scarpes Ltd., where in the beginning of 2017, the owner, an Italian citizen, transferred the company, together with the abandoned workshop in the village of Vetren, Pazardzhik district to a woman with an address in the village of Kriva Bar, Montana. A check in the Trade Register found that the same woman owns or participates in the management of a total of 22 companies. 2. There is no obstacle, according to the current legislation, the employer to transfer his company and continue to work in the same place with the same machines, with the same production activity, but already under another company and under another name. This is the case with the city of Dupnitsa. 3. While insolvency employers are obliged to request the opening of insolvency proceedings before the court concerned, they do not do so and thus damage their workers to whom they have not paid the wages and benefits. This is because during the delay the entire property is transferred and the workers miss the time limits in which they can claim payment of their claim from the Fund to guarantee employees' claims. At the same time, workers are not allowed to request the opening of insolvency proceedings, although sometimes they are creditors of the employer with large amounts, such as 10 000 and more BGN. Another problem which has identified the Ombudsman from the complaints that he has received is that although they have not paid the salaries, benefits to the employees, incorrect employers can no problem participate in public procurement procedures such as contractors and subcontractors. According to the Ombudsman, the Fund's activities to ensure employees' claims are ineffective and ineffective. According to the Fund itself, 250 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. This is because the three-month legal requirement between the termination of the employment relationship and the entry into force of the decision initiating insolvency proceedings is a condition which cannot be effectively met. The worker himself may not request the opening of insolvency proceedings, and it shall begin at the request of the employer or another creditor. On the other hand, the legal proceedings themselves are slow and in practice this period is almost unattainable. The labour inspectorate shall have no authority after termination of the employment powers to issue compulsory administrative measures in respect of unpaid benefits and remuneration. To resolve the problems outlined so Mrs. Manolova informed the MPs that she and the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria had submitted a proposal to the President of the National Assembly, with Vh. No 739 02 1 of 20 April 2017, amending and supplementing the Labour Code, the Civil Procedure Code, the Commercial Law, the Public Procurement Act, the Law on guaranteed employees' claims in insolvency of the employer, the Law on obligations and contracts and the Law on special bets. In short, proposals for legislative changes concern the following: - prohibit the transfer of companies where wages and benefits to employees are not paid; - to grant workers the right to request the opening of insolvency proceedings of their employer; - in the executive proceedings, workers should go to the first row of the privileged creditors; - establish a simplified procedure whereby, without legal cases, workers are supplied with an executive list for the amounts owed to them by the respective departments of the employer; - ensure real access of workers to the Staff Guarantee Fund, and the period for termination of employment until the entry into force of the decision initiating insolvency proceedings is extended from 3 months to 1 year; - not to allow public procurement procedures such as contractors and subcontractors which have not been paid to their workers; - to extend the powers of the Executive Agency "Master Labour Inspection" in respect of unpaid wages and other social commitments, after the termination of the employment service. In shaping the problems in cases of unpaid salaries of workers from their employers, Mrs. Rumyana Mihailova, Executive Director of the Executive Agency, Chief Labour Inspectorate, outlined in her presentation a trend in the years on this issue. In her exhibition, she stressed that the late payout, on the one hand, is a problem related to both the normal survival of workers and their families, on the other hand, is one of the bright manifestations of the grey economy. In this way, uncompetitive ones are placed in an uncompetitive environment before correct employers. During the period 2009 In 2011 the country was established by the General Labour Inspection of thousands of companies with delayed remuneration. As a result, concrete action has been taken to address this problem, namely: - with its own financial resources in 2012. The Executive Agency is building specialized software for tracking the payment of late wages. The aim is to provide up-to-date information on the control subjects, which, following checks, has been found to be late payment of wages. In this way, ex post controls shall be carried out in due time immediately after the expiry of the mandatory payment order given for payment of remuneration. - Check each signal for late wages, regardless of the mode of submission, including anonymous, is mandatory and priorityd. As a result of the measures taken by the General Labour Inspection over the years significantly reduces the cases of unpaid wages. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. BGN 30 million has been paid. lv. delayed remuneration. During the same period, 5446 cases of infringements related to late wages were drawn up and the amount of penal decrees entered into force amounted to 7 million. 963 thousand. 404 leva. This trend towards reducing unpaid cases is also apparent in economic activities. It should be borne in mind that these data are significantly influenced by the number of businesses in the economic activity, by the number of employees in them, by the amount of remuneration their employers have delayed, as well as even where the relevant employers are located. In the report we have applied, colleagues, in tabular form the dimensions of the years. I will allow myself to brief you on the most striking cases in: "Economic activities and amount of late remuneration for 2012" The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food First of all, there is a sector of construction of facilities. 919 thousand. £639.; construction of buildings s 45 million 070 thousand. BGN 728. Economic activities and balance to be paid 2012 This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. 62,000. BGN 676.; construction of buildings s 17 million 705 thousand. BGN 619. The largest number of workers' late wage enterprises are in trade, as there are also the largest number of businesses operating there. The economic activities and the number of companies with delayed remuneration start with retail trade, without car and motorcycle trading, 764 number of enterprises; restaurant industry - 659 and so on. The trend that we have outlined in the 2012 to 2016 report is that if in 2012 the number of these enterprises was 2811, then in 2016 their number is now 453, that is to say you see a significant reduction. With regard to the number of workers who were injured, the number of workers in 2012 was 261 thousand. 315, with their number down to 56 thousand in 2016. 791. In terms of wages, the number in the amount of late wages in 2012 was 126 million. Eight hundred and 689 BGN, while at the end of 2016 the amount fell to 22 million. 164,000. BGN 676. According to the Executive Agency, the reasons for the delay in the payment of wages raised by employers, when challenging their acts, are the following: inter-company debt; obligations to banks and other creditors; account supports or the establishment of special bets; lack of markets; in health institutions a lack of collateralisation of the activity by means of funds from the Casata; in educational institutions, under-funded delegated budgets, not translated funds from projects and programmes; in enterprises that provide temporary work, funds from companies abroad. The problems preventing the effectiveness of control are identical to some of those identified by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, namely: 1. The transfer of shares of companies to insolvency entities. 2. Employers with addresses permanently residing abroad and the absence of a particular contact officer for the Labour Inspection. 3. Employers who are hiding from the control authorities. 4. The imposition of a safeguard measure to seal the employer's undertaking, thus depriving the control authorities of access to the undertaking's documents to carry out such checks. The cited cases are one of the widely known companies in the public domain with such problems. In view of the problems outlined in the control carried out by the Labour Inspection, the following legislative solutions are proposed, namely. 1. Regulation of the powers of the Executive Agency after termination of employment. 2. Introduction of deadlines for payment of benefits after termination of employment, the rest of the remuneration under art. 245 of the Labor Code. 3. Supplementing the categories of employers defined in art. 412a, which may bear administrative criminal responsibility as individuals. 4. Extending the volume of types of infringements which restrict the right to participate in public procurement, including the infringement, working without a contract of employment. Mrs. Vanya Borisova, Director of the Fund for guaranteeing employees' claims, informs the MPs that at present the Fund has funds that could be used to pay guaranteed claims of BGN 257 million. The funds are contained in a portfolio of government guaranteed bonds with different maturity and thus a very good yield is realised. For 2016, the Fund paid slightly over BGN 2 million guaranteed claims to 488 employees and employees of companies declared bankrupt by a total of 508 applications submitted. Therefore, 64 persons have been refused to pay. In her exhibition Mrs. Borisova stressed that unlike the one outlined by the Executive Agency, a downward trend, which has been growing in the Fund since the beginning of its establishment in 2005 until now, is an upward trend, i.e. an increase in the amounts of repayment of guaranteed claims. The reason for this is that at the beginning the Fund is too unpopular and, moreover, the regulation which has been amended repeatedly has not sufficiently regulated the notification procedures, respectively for carrying out the checks, collecting evidence. The Fund shall pay larger amounts annually, regardless of the decrease found in the number of incorrect employers. One third of the refusals to pay guaranteed amounts are due to the expiry of the 3-month period from the termination of the employment relationship until the date of entry into the Commercial Register of the decision initiating insolvency proceedings. In this regard, the possibility of extending that period and the period within which applications should be submitted to the Fund may be considered. At a meeting held on 17 May 2017, the MPs listened to the representatives of the trade union organizations of the workers, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Union for Economic Initiative. On behalf of the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria Mr. Chavdar Hristov stressed that the problem of unpaid salaries in Bulgaria has great social importance. In view of the data submitted by the Labour Inspection, there is a phenomenon in this case that, even in small sizes, reflects in other public relations................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Therefore, they consider that the only way to stop or reduce, to become socially tolerated this problem is a complex of legislative measures in line with the Constitution, which says: "Everything that is earned must be exploited! She doesn't say who to pay it off, which is a very important moment. It has to be paid by the one who owes.... by the employer. With regard to the Fund for guaranteeing employees' claims, the opinion was that its role is social, not to manage and accumulate money. In this respect, the possibility of amendments to the Law on the guaranteed claims of employees in the event of the employer's insolvency should be considered not only in respect of the extension of the relevant deadlines, but also in respect of the grounds on which wages and benefits may be paid to workers and employees whose employers are in financial crisis. Mr. Bozhidar Mitev from the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria presented the problems with the unpaid wages in the mine. In the last two years there has been practically no collective negotiation, there is no social dialogue, wages are received with a delay of two, three, four months. Imperative requirement of the Law is that if the agreed wage is not carried out within the period established by the individual contract or by the Law, the employer owes interest. In the last five years, interest has not been paid at all. According to him, there is a very serious tension in Southwestern Bulgaria among miners and energyists, things have reached the limit. In addition, many workers have not received workwear for three or four years. Three or four months ago, they gave one part of the workers. Mr. Ivelin Zhelyazkov, Director of the Directorate Trilateral Cooperation at the Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria, expressed the general opinion of the organizations of Bulgarian employers, agreed with colleagues. He referred to Mr. Hristov's words that there is no claim that there is an epidemic that can kill us, but according to the employers' organizations this epidemic can become real if the proposed legislative changes are accepted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria. The late wages for 2016 amounted to BGN 23 million and the paid wages amounted to BGN 3 billion, i.e. the ratio is 1:1000 in favor of the correct employers. Due to individual cases of incorrect paying agents, there is a risk to punish the vast majority of correct Bulgarian employers. Those who have the opportunity to do something illegal, they will try to do it. They don't normally belong to representative organizations, they don't want to come out in the light and show up. Such measures will also discourage other employers who will say: "Why should I be the one to pay everything for everyone, while someone else, at the expense of people like me, will do what he finds to be good and will not follow any penalty for it? " The opinion of employers' organisations on individual proposals for legislative changes is reflected in Annex 1 to this report, which also reflects the views of all stakeholders. Mrs. Maya Manolova's proposal - Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, and the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria, with the participation of Mrs. Maya Manolova - Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria. No 739-02-1, of 20 April 2017, for amendments and additions to the Labour Code, the Civil Procedure Code, the Commercial Law, the Public Procurement Act, the Law on guaranteeing employees' claims in insolvency of the employer, the Law on Obligations and Contracts and the Law on Special Bets was examined and discussed at a meeting of the Commission held on 7 June 2017. The various institutions and organisations concerned with those changes in legislation, submitted their opinions on the proposal, which are reflected in Annex No 1 to this Report. In the course of the discussion, the MPs united around the proposals for the creation of a light procedure through which employees can quickly obtain an executive list of the amounts due to them on the basis of the provisions of the Executive Agency, which have entered into force; to provide access to the Staff Guarantee Fund by extending the respective deadlines; to avoid participation in public procurement procedures as contractors and subcontractors, which have not paid their workers; to strengthen the control functions of the Executive Agency; to establish delayed payments to the employer in respect of claims arising from employment. The legislative changes on which the MPs have reached agreement are reflected in Annex No 2 to this report and will be tabled as a joint bill of all political forces in the National Assembly. As regards the other proposals of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria, they can be recognized by individual political parties and submitted as their draft laws. At a meeting held on 28 June 2017, the report on the activities of the Temporary Committee for the study of the cases of unpaid salaries was adopted by 10 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Project! DECISION on the Activity Report of the Temporary Commission for the study of unpaid wage cases The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the activities of the Temporary Commission to investigate the cases of paid salaries.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u3	And thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Dear Members of Parliament, you have heard the report of the Temporary Committee. I thank the Commission for the detailed work, for the arguments and for the people involved in the discussions. You have the floor for speeches on the report. Mr. Krum Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to begin by thanking the Chair of the Temporary Commission and all its members for the good work, the good tone, because the first question we have to answer is, did this Commission make sense? It is important to recall how the initiative started from outside, the initiative was of the Ombudsman of the Republic, as well as of the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria, who put on our agenda the acute problem for people who perform their duties in good faith, but do not receive the salaries they have earned. Why did BSP decide to ask for such a Commission? We wanted to bring out this acute problem, which we are sure you all know, and for which we are sure you all want to solve, from the sharp opposition that reigned in this House, especially at the beginning of parliament, and which will most likely continue to prevail, since this is still one of the aspects of parliamentaryism. This was not a Temporary Commission that sought to unravel or create a scandal. It was a Temporary Commission that sought solutions. The second most important question is, did he manage to find these solutions? And I think he deserves a serious answer. In our work, we found that there are, in general, two major cases where wages are not paid. And they deserve a different answer because they are different in their essence. In one case, it is about employers who have money in business, but do not pay salaries for different reasons. These are the wrong employers. In the other case, it is about employers who objectively face difficulties in their business and cannot pay salaries. A special fund has been created for them, there is a special procedure we will get to it. The eight groups of problems identified by the Commission after our two-month work show that most of the cases of unpaid salaries concern precisely the second type of employers who have fallen or are about to fall into bankruptcy. The first type is what is the incorrect employer, the crook, the one who does not pay and abuse his people is the one who focuses public opinion. This is the problem that we almost read in the newspapers every day, and we see legitimate protests. To this problem, the Commission has launched a solution. We are increasing the powers of the Labour Inspectorate, giving various guarantees to control these incorrect employers. But will these legal changes work? I'm sure we'll sign them quickly and bring them into the room. After the broad discussion we have made, they should move quickly along the legislative order. The question whether they will work depends on the will of the executive, also depends on the will of this meeting, when we decide to vote on the budget, because we will need the new powers of the Labour Inspection to be secured properly and financially in order to work, and depends on many other aspects, which unfortunately surpass the current issue, namely the way our judicial system functions, the way in which the various gray spots in Bulgarian life and economy flourish instead of shrinking. But directly to our Commission. What we have failed to do, and the reason why we signed this report, approving it, but with a particular opinion, is that we have not been able to open the way to the special order on which workers who have not received their salaries can be compensated outside the bankruptcy procedure. It is precisely because this bankruptcy procedure does not sufficiently guarantee workers' rights that the legislator has provided for a special order. He has also created a special fund, which we need to say clearly, works and works well. A fund with sufficient resources to satisfy the legitimate demands of workers. A fund in which funds are accumulated with contributions from correct employers, but they have not imported into it in recent years, for the simple reason that it is not spent. Two hundred and fifty million are by law in this Fund. It practically has more, however, only two million were paid to workers last year. This is not because of the fault of the Fund, not because of the workers' faults, but because the condition of access to it is the start of the bankruptcy procedure. Unfortunately, this bankruptcy procedure started hard for several reasons. Some of them are legal, and we can help, some of them are related to the numerous ways in which this judicial procedure can be chicified. One of the decisions proposed and which the Commission has not adopted, unfortunately, is to allow workers, as other debtors of the undertaking, to request the opening of insolvency proceedings before the competent court. The argument with which this was rejected was that, if you see, you can create some grounds for abuse and worker, and an employer to agree to drain the Fund in some way. This argument is unfounded because it is a request to be issued to the competent court and this court will assess whether the objective circumstances for initiating such proceedings are in place or not. This was the way we could open the Fund. We didn't, unfortunately. This fund only makes sense if it reaches its goal. Its goal, apart from the solidarity responsibility of the various employers, is precisely to satisfy legitimate demands of workers, why they cannot be satisfied. This is the second time that we could have taken because the workers were placed fourth in the list of privileged creditors under the insolvency procedure. They are practically never reached, to meet their demands is not reached. Therefore, another proposal, if we do not accept this for the Fund, or it may even be cumulative, is to rearrange this order and put workers first among those whose claims must be satisfied in the event of bankruptcy or bankruptcy. These proposals have been discussed, many of them have been gathered, I admit, controversial opinions, but it is time to look at them again, because this Commission has done half the work, which is important, but has failed to solve the whole problem, which is even more important. That is why today we will take advantage of our right, quite rightly stated it to the Commission, to recognise some of the proposals that have been made by enriching and improving them with the opinions we have heard, and to submit them as the Draft Law on the Amendment of the Commercial Law today. Once again, let's look at them quickly, as this discussion took place, to a large extent everything is on the table, it is time to make a decision. I conclude that this Temporary Committee has been useful, it has shown that this National Assembly can work, that it is an opposition proposal, which has been adopted, recognised and developed by the ruling majority, makes sense. Let us take advantage of such precedent in the future, but we need to know that much more is to be done so that people who work in good faith do not stay in Bulgaria and receive their salaries for this. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u5	Thank you, Comrade Zarkov. There have already been two statements. Mr. Pavel Shopov, come in. After him, Mr. Hassan Ademov. [[Noise and lines.]] A line? Mr. Shopov, I'm sorry. I didn't see there was a line. Line up, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Zarkov, I do not agree with one part of your speech, which we made in the context of the fact that you want to make changes to the Law on the guaranteed claims of employees in the case of insolvency of the employer. The Fund and the law for guaranteeing claims itself were established in 2004 in response to a European Union directive with the primary aim of guaranteeing the claims of all workers and employees whose employers have gone bankrupt. The Fund's very idea is to cover the risk of bankruptcy, not to cover any obligations that employers have towards employees. In practice, you want to change the philosophy of the Law itself, to open the loophole and expand the scope of employers to benefit from the raised funds in the Fund, and they are not at all small, as you said,... 257 million. I do not agree with this proposal because it will practically work out so that we will make incorrect employers be even more incorrect and take advantage of this loophole. There is no way that these funds, which have been collected by correct employers, can be distributed to the incorrect ones. These changes, with the opening of this loophole and the changes you intend to propose, as you said earlier, will not benefit either the state or the workers themselves, and most of all they will be harmed by the correct employers who have contributed to this Fund for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Is there any other line to Mr. Zarkov's statement? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u8	Dear Mrs. Naydenova, I understand most of your arguments. We have also discussed them in the Commission, we will continue to discuss them from now on. Let me get this straight. We will not bring changes to this Law, but to the Commercial Law and we will not touch the philosophy of the Fund, as we understand it well enough and you explained it to us. The problem is different, and I take advantage of the fact that you made a reply to me to give the example of the case, which we well know of the Russian Shipyard. So, for the tenth month, the court did not start the bankruptcy procedure, but examined its application for the initiation of this procedure. That's the big problem. The Fund Act is well constructed on both the relevant European and the relevant international documents. The point is that in our reality.... pretty sad, people do not reach it, although they would have reason to. The worker from the Ruse Shipyard, who has not received his salaries since December, cannot address the Fund because the procedure has not started. The yard owner claims that there is no reason for bankruptcy itself, and the court is dismissed by one judge, lack of a lawyer, day after day postpones for months. This is a big problem because we have set in the same Law deadlines where the worker can go to the Fund to ask for his money. These deadlines are running, the Fund and the Law are not interested in the fact that the judiciary is not working. And this whole thing can't be solved by this Law I understand. Therefore, we gave up an initial idea of ours to change the conditions under which the Fund would grant its benefits. We will propose to make sure that the worker or part of the workers have the opportunity to at least influence the moment when this insolvency procedure begins, as it is she who opens the way to the Fund. This will not create a risk of abuse, I repeat, you will also be familiar with our concrete proposal. We take into account both your opinion and those of other people who defended it. It will not open the way for abuse, but if the employer does not fulfil his legal obligations, not only in respect of wages, but in relation to the attitude of the obligation which he has to ask for the start of a bankruptcy procedure when he is in long-term difficulties, let the workers also have a way to influence this procedure. And a second time, if there is still no access to this Fund, let these workers have a chance within the bankruptcy procedure to satisfy their demands. Being a fourth becomes so that someone who has far smaller claims can beat them to it. Finally, the Fund, giving money to workers, does not deprive itself of that money, as it steps into their rights and may, in the subsequent procedure that hypothetically began, ask for it. I mean, the Fund's not gonna lose to this thing. He accepts your arguments, we take them into consideration, but we offer another way of ruling. Something has to be done. We can't have 250.26 million piled up because they're set aside for one problem, this problem is 40 million, I mean...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u9	Mr. Zarkov, you're running out of time. Please, focus on finishing!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u10	Thank you. I apologize for running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u11	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. The word for speech is Mr. Pavel Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This National Assembly started with something very useful. One of the first important things you have done is to form this Commission on a matter that has not been since yesterday. This problem has been for decades and, in my opinion, it has been wrongly said that it is almost at the Ombudsman's initiative that the problem has begun. We have submitted legislative initiatives at two previous national meetings. We have made our proposals, but they, as they did with many other laws of Ataka, fell into the President's drawer and did not come out of there. Now our satisfaction and one of the reasons why we say that we are taking part in power is precisely this one that we will do a number of useful things. With this we start, here's a useful thing at the end, which we already take part in. I will join the opinion that the atmosphere in which the Commission works was wonderful, largely thanks to its President, Mrs. Yordanova. Maybe they were all led by the consciousness that there was a domestic problem to call it, which is not a party. There was no room inside for rivalry and display of party interests, and something about that. That is why the Commission is working extremely constructively. To get to this Commission, the problem had the corresponding accumulations over the years. You all know that in meetings with citizens, voters, admissions and in the election campaign itself, the problems of non-payment of wages and wages have been put before all of us many times. We know with what pain in the eyes, people put the problem, because it was just about money for their lives, about monthly money they hadn't received in a long time. The media also contributed to accumulations that would lead to the solution of the problem, because in the years the most regularly reported outstanding money in one connection or another by certain companies and companies. This accumulation led to a picture that appeared in the Commission, which it outlined, here in the Report was mentioned, some figures for about ten years total unpaid hundreds, thousands of levs, but there was also specific data for last year from around 20 and some, 23 "24 million." lv. that money was due. What was worrying was that it should be mentioned that this year the trend is speeding up, and for the first only 3 months the amount is greater than the outstanding money for the past year. The benefit from the Commission is bilateral not only because a picture was given for the first time and the size of the problem was outlined, but also because the measures were outlined to be taken as a legislative initiative. I'm a little disagreeable here to discuss the bills that will be tabled. In particular, each of them will debate in plenary when the time is right and then we will hold the debate - what is good, what is bad. We will argue, of course, about each of the bills. However, what is important in the Commission is that a package of bills has been outlined as a direction. And the concrete sound, the concrete texts will be developed, of course, by specialists and imported, as we have agreed, in the Commission, once we have taken the party sanction from our parliamentary groups and agreed with them our action, we will submit the bills of those who are indisputable in general to be dealt with in plenary. Of course, each of the parties and the parliamentary groups will have the opportunity to submit additional ones, which they believe are outside of what they will reach consensus on. We at Ataka have always had the idea to submit texts on criminalisation of the act, which I think is the most radical and strong means of protecting society from future such acts of employers. So strong and very much, we believe, is the ability of workers to want bankruptcy of companies, which was also an idea, but there is no consensus on it. I want to share my impression with you in the debate. They were, and this was the dignity of the Commission, invited all the possible stakeholders to trade unions, representatives of individual companies, citizens and representatives of employers' organizations. What made an impression? Dear colleagues, you cannot imagine the rage and perseverance with which representatives of employers' organizations were opposed to taking measures or not such measures, not radical measures to resolve the problem. It has come to cynicism in some positions and opinions that almost some minimum percentage has been quoted only 1% of the remuneration paid is the subject of these problems and if you see 99% of the salaries being paid normally and within time limit, and such a problem almost does not exist in the state. He just couldn't help but notice that. But for this one, even if you will 1%, there are many fates, many cases of people without the means to solve existential needs. So this question has also been asked, and I think it's been looked at from all sides and in some way countered these points. I will end with the satisfaction that remains with me, that the problem for the first time is not at the level of the media, is not at the level of our separate meetings with voters, and the problem is solved in a complex, complete way for the first time in this National Assembly, with the identification of very specific measures in the amendment of the legislation, and from now on the second phase awaits us. I hope that things will continue as consensually as they have been in plenary for the purpose of projecting what needs to be done in the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u13	And thank you, Mr. Shopov, for your speech. You have the floor for lines. There are no lines to Mr. Shopov's statement. Mr. Hassan Ademov has the floor to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to begin with the fact that the scope of the activities of the Temporary Commission for the study of the cases of unpaid salaries included an extremely serious social phenomenon. I call it a "phenomemomen" because the paid and paid salaries create problems for both employees and employers. The unpaid salaries of some employers is a very important element of the grey economy and unfair competition, because those who delay or fail to pay the wages have a competitive advantage over the others who are correct employers and pay the paid salaries within the time limit. The main task of the Temporary Commission was to examine and gather information, summarize, and analyse the cases of unpaid salaries, i.e. to take a picture of the current situation and on the basis of the information received, on the basis of the problems identified to come up with a legislative solution, because obtaining the expenditure in the form of a salary is a constitutional right of employees. It is not at all about who should pay, but about the fact that the employee and the employee have to pay. I would like to address some of the identified problems and the solutions, because the Commission has tried and achieved, in my opinion, a sub-party consensus on the more important identified problems. The question I would like to address is regarding the control functions of an authorised state authority in the face of the General Labour Inspection. Dear colleagues, part of the powers of the Labour Inspectorate General can hardly be realized because the Labour Inspectorate currently has a state of less than 350 people, and a very small part of them are the labour inspectors, and the companies that have to check the Labour Inspectorate General are over 250 thousand. You yourselves understand the inability with such a state the General Labour Inspection to be able to fulfil its commitments under the Labour Code, under the Employment Promotion Act, under the Law on Health and Safety at Work. What do I mean? The main labour inspection, for example, is not able to perform control functions after the termination of the employment relationship. There is no time limit in the Labour Code for the employer to pay the employee and employee spent. It is in this direction that the efforts and changes proposed by the Temporary Commission to amend and supplement the Labour Code are precisely in this direction: the extension of the powers of the General Labour Inspectorate to have the right to control functions after termination of employment, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to have a period within which the employer to pay the wage. Next. I would like to say a few words on the issue that has been commented here by fellow Members who spoke a short time ago,..................... to ensure employees' claims in insolvency of the employer. Dear colleagues, this Fund is an employer's fund. It is designed for solidarity between employers. It is no coincidence that the insurance contribution is solely at the expense of employers. This Fund is created where the employer who regularly pays insurance contributions to this Fund, when he becomes in a serious and critical situation on the basis of payments, is helped by this Fund in order to be able, eventually, to be healed and to enter the normal rhythm of work. However, there are incorrect employers who, as has been said here just now, regardless of the requirement of the Commercial Law Regardless of the legislative text, there is no solution to this issue, there are no cases in which the employer will be sanctioned, even though he has not requested a bankruptcy procedure. Why is this procedure extremely important? Because it follows opportunities for the worker or employee to take advantage of their rights through the Debt Guarantee Fund. Why is that? Because within three months of the termination of the employment relationship, the worker and the employee have rights under this Law. Therefore, the proposals made in the Law on the Guaranteed Claims of Workers and Employees in the event of the employer's bankruptcy are in the direction of extending the two periods. One period of three months shall be extended to six months, the other shall be extended to six months where the worker or employee is entitled to submit his application to the Fund from two months to three months. We hope that these proposals, which are being made, which were adopted by consensus, will be supported by the National Assembly. We can hardly be convinced that all these proposals will solve the problems of unpaid salaries, but I would like to tell you a number that is very important. In the last years from 2012 to 2016 of 322 million due but unpaid salaries, around 300 million after intervention of the General Labour Inspection, have been paid. So only 22 million are the ones that haven't been paid. But whether it's 22 million or 2 million, or 200 BGN, when the worker or employee has such a problem, it's a serious problem for him. I am convinced that the proposals made will help, even though they will not solve the problem completely. The important thing is to minimize this problem so that correct employers are more than incorrect workers and employees can get what they have done in time. We should also note the trend that has been observed in recent years: from 2012 to 2016, the number of enterprises of nearly three thousand, where there are incorrect employers, is decreasing to around 450, respectively the number of workers and employees of 260 thousand, is decreasing to around 57 thousand. This trend was challenged by the Ombudsman, which claims that in the first four months there has been an avalanche increase in complaints about unpaid salaries. It is probably also about old, welded cases on which there is no solution to the questions yet. The proposals made on the basis of the consensus reached in the Commission are, in addition to strengthening the control functions of the General Labour Inspectorate and changes to the Civil Procedure Code, which will enable the immediate execution order to be achieved more quickly, i.e. on the executive list by a faster procedure and on the basis of this executive list of workers and employees to be entitled to the relevant claims. Of course, last but not least are the amendments to the Public Procurement Act, because what we are proposing now is based on the proposals that are consensual. Employers who have obligations towards workers and employees shall not be entitled to participate in public procurement procedures. I hope that, following the adoption of these proposals by the Temporary Commission, the problem of accrued but unpaid salaries will be minimized and why not liquidated, because, once again, this is an extremely serious social problem, which I hope will find its solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Are there any lines to Mr. Hasan Ademov's statement? I won't. For the next speech Mrs. Dora Hristova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I support the speeches made by my fellow Members so far. I support Mr. Shopov's statement, which gave a very good assessment of the Commission's work, led by Mrs. Yordanova for the constructive work. Also Mr. Ademov's assessment. The initiative of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria raised very important questions for citizens about the need to stop the cases of exploitation of the Bulgarian worker. We must bear in mind that for a large part of these workers and employees who have unpaid salaries, this is the only income. The proposals have been widely discussed, opinions and proposals have been submitted to change the texts by a number of institutions and organisations, both by employers and by workers. The Commission notes that the Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the measures with the internal market does not constitute State aid within I will not dwell on the major changes that have been proposed by the Commission, as my fellow Members have indicated them, but I would also like to draw attention to them, as they do, that the executive must have the will to bring them into action and make them workable and useful for all countries in the labour process. It was said that a substantial change in the proposed changes was an increase in the powers of the Labour Inspection. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that it has been pointed out by the representatives of the Commission, by the Executive Agency of the General Labour Inspection, that their staff are currently understaffed, but by increasing their powers or this change, unless the number of employees in the Labour Inspection is increased, this change will simply not be put into effect. I would like to point out that there is a risk of referral to the Labour Inspectorate by dishonest workers and employees for whom the sole purpose is to benefit from this change, it will be to harm the interests of the employer. For this reason, the control body must organise in such a way the alignment of its new powers with its actions which the new Law allows it to take into account that this does not cause harm to the well-founded employers. It is necessary to comply properly with the Law and properly perform the control functions of the Labour Inspection in the interests of all parties in the labour process. The practice I have shows that very often this is done by dishonest workers who refer to the Labour Inspection for carrying out such checks. We, from the Political Party, also supported the amendments to the Law on guaranteeing employees' claims in insolvency of the employer. The proposed legislative change to this provision aims at the Fund for guaranteeing claims to benefit workers and employees who have ceased their employment with the employer in the last six months of the judgment to open insolvency proceedings. The increase from three months to six months hides its risks expressed in a number of the opinions of the Temporary Commission. When we talk about money paid by the business, it does not matter whether it is small, medium or large, we must be aware that these funds, by which the Fund is powered, are collected in order to guarantee employees' claims in case of bankruptcy, when it is not caused for abuse. We of the Political Party have concerns that there is an opportunity for dishonest employers to abuse this legislative change and a number of newly formed companies under the same control to use this Fund to cover their obligations to workers and thus lead to the drain of the Fund for guaranteeing claims. None of those who have spoken have noticed that the contributions to this Fund have been made for the period from 1 January 2005 to the end of 2010. Since 2011, employers no longer have obligations to make contributions to the Fund, and currently the amount of this Fund amounts to 257 million. lv. The question arises: after seven years, why did this Fund pay extreme attention, and who became interested in the 257 million? We also propose that the Law should include texts that give priority to workers whose employers participated jointly with contributions to the Fund until 2010, because in practice the Fund can be drained from employers who start operations after 2010 and have not participated in the collection of these 257 million in the Fund. Apart from that, we believe that we need to make a good economic justification and a thorough analysis of whether the Fund will be able to absorb this increase after these changes. Finally, to sum up that all these pending issues remain in our minds whether this legislative change to the Law on guaranteeing employees' claims in the event of the employer's insolvency is made and initiated in the interests of the employees or the purpose is the draining of the Fund. We therefore invite a thorough analysis of the provision in question, or at least a gradual increase in the period of three to six months, so that an objective and comprehensive assessment of the legislative change can be made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Christova. You have the floor for lines, honourable MPs, come in. There are no lines to the statement. You have the floor of speech, please. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The temporary committee for examining the cases of unpaid salaries has completed its work. I would say that it has successfully fulfilled its task, namely to collect, summarize and analyse data on cases of due but unpaid salaries by employers. The idea of looking for a solution to the problem of unpaid salaries deserves attention. However, the question is not only to find the problem, because it is clear that there is a problem, no one denies it, but how to find the right solutions, the exact legislative texts that will minimise this vicious phenomenon or generally speaking, the problem of unpaid salaries to become socially tolerated. The Commission has worked for two months in a spirit of understanding and constructive dialogue, not in the name of any close party interests, but in the name of the wishes of all MPs from all parliamentary groups through legislative initiatives to introduce additional protection for employees in the event of the employer being incorrect, as a result of which we have a draft Law on amendments to the Labour Code, in the Civil Procedure Code, in the Commercial Law, in the Law on guaranteeing employees' claims in the event of insolvency of the employer, and in the Law on Public Procurement. The texts of the Bill are presented to the attention of all parliamentary groups for discussion and I hope that the bill will be submitted to the National Assembly's case-law as soon as possible. These are, as has been said by the previous, consensus texts on which the members of the Commission have agreed with the clear assumption that additional texts will be tabled between first and second readings on which the different parliamentary groups have different opinions. The problem with unpaid salaries from unscrupulous employers is not from yesterday. It's been decades. The practice shows that the most affected are workers in the tailoring industry, in the mining industry, in the restaurant industry and in retail trade. We should note that in the years back, solutions are sought for the problem. Changes have been made in legislation, especially in labour law, which will ensure greater protection for workers and employees in the long-term delays or non-payment of salaries, as well as changes related to more restrictions for incorrect employers. These changes have proved positive, but clearly not sufficient, because, unfortunately, this vicious practice continues to this day and although these cases today are less, they are a fact and show that there is a problem. The analysis of the cases of late or unpaid salaries found shows that there are gaps in the legislation that allow dishonest and incorrect employers to take advantage of them, such as the most common procedure that employers resort to in the event of financial difficulties. The non-payment of remuneration is a serious social problem which deprives the worker and the employee of funds for physical survival. This problem of wage delays has deepened with the beginning of an economic and financial crisis, when thousands of enterprises, according to data from the Executive Agency, have delayed remuneration. As a result, concrete action has been taken to address this problem, with labour pay control becoming one of the priority activities of the General Labour Inspection. Special software was developed and introduced at the end of 2012. It collects all the information on the follow-up of the payout process in the verified enterprises. This allows the verification to be carried out immediately after the expiry of the prescribed prescription to see if it has been fulfilled. As a result of the active activity of the Executive Agency, the Chief Labour Inspectorate and the measures taken in this regard, from 2012 to now these cases with unpaid salaries have decreased. In support of this fact, it is only for 2016 that the companies with late remuneration identified by the Inspection's control bodies were 239 and the amount of late remuneration established at the end of 2016 was 11.9 million. BGN, with over 16 million paid in all 2016 lv. late wages, including previous years. All this shows that despite the limited capacity with which the Executive Agency is working, it has 350 inspectors, results. The issue that has been put to the attention of all Members of Parliament, Commissioners, is how we can resolve this problem and how we can ensure that the risk of non-payment of salaries is reduced to a minimum. With regard to overcoming the existing problem of delays and non-payment of wages, we came up with consensus proposals in the Bill, which I believe will be tabled soon. The bill is the result of the need for urgent changes in the legislation governing the rights of employees and, above all, aims at additional protection against unfairness by employers. This legislative initiative is in the interest of all workers, including persons with terminated relationships who have not received their wages or benefits from their employer. We in GERB's parliamentary group are satisfied with the Commission's activities, especially the fact that its work is not limited to identifying and analysing the problems related to the cases of unpaid salaries, but we have actually proposed legislative measures to stop this vicious practice from dishonest employers in order to protect the interests of the employees more fully, as the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria enjoins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u19	Thank you for your speech, Mrs. Naydenova. Are there any lines to the statement? There are no lines. Are there any other speeches? I won't. In the absence of requests for speeches, I am putting an end to the discussion on the Commission Report and we are going to vote. I ask the MPs to take their seats. The Commission has submitted to the National Assembly the following Project! DECISION on the Activity Report of the Temporary Commission for the study of unpaid wage cases The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the activities of the Temporary Commission to investigate the cases of paid salaries. Dear Members of Parliament, please vote. They voted 170 MPs: for 170, against and abstention there is no. The draft Commission decision has been adopted unanimously. The result is remarkable in itself. Thank you. [[Applause.]] We move on to item eight of our agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROCUREMENT OF CANDIDATES FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF NATIONAL HEALTH AND HEALTH CARE, THE PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND THE HEARING OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION FOR HEALTH AND THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u20	Here you are, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I present to your attention ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly At its extraordinary meeting held on 5 July 2017, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a draft decision adopting procedural rules for the conduct of a public procedure under art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 19th para. 4 t. 5 of the Health Insurance Act adopted by decision on 5 July 2017 the resignation of the former Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 93, para. 1 and para. 7 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and in relation to the Law on Health Insurance. In accordance with art. 19th para. 5 of the Health Insurance Act, a new governor of the National Health Insurance Fund shall be elected by the National Assembly within 30 days of the termination of the contract of the previous governor in the cases under para. 4, one of which is resigning. In accordance with art. 93, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be made following a public procedure. The procedure shall be conducted on the basis of the rules of procedure adopted by the National Assembly drawn up by the committee responsible for each election, according to art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. During the discussion no proposals were made on the draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules for the conduct of a public procedure under art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. On the basis of the discussion and the vote taken, the Committee on Health unanimously proposed to the National Assembly that the following be adopted by 21 votes. Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 19th para. 5 of the Health Insurance Act HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for election by the National Assembly: I. Offering of candidates for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund 1. Proposals as a candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund may be made by the parliamentary groups. The proposals shall be submitted in writing through the President of the National Assembly to the Committee on Health within 5 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals as a candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund shall be accompanied by written reasons that justify the good professional reputation of the applicant. The following documents shall apply to the proposals: (a) written consent of the applicant in accordance with Annex 1 to the decision; (b) a detailed CV; (c) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for acquired higher education with an educational and qualification degree of Master; (d) documents certifying acquired additional specializations and qualifications; (e) documents certifying that the applicant meets the requirement of art. 19th para. 3, p. 2 of the Health Insurance Act for professional experience in health, banking, insurance or insurance management case; (f) evidence of criminality; (g) a statement in accordance with Annex 2 to the decision that the applicant has Bulgarian citizenship as required by art. 21, para. 1, t. 1 of the Health Insurance Act; (h) a statement in accordance with Annex 3 to the decision that the circumstances of art. 21, al. 1, t. In the case of an insurance undertaking, the amount of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking shall be calculated as the total (i) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to Annex 4 to the Decision. II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The proposals under Section I, p. 1 and the documents referred to in Section I, t. 2 shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly no later than 14 days before the hearing. 2. The publication of the proposals and the documents under point (c) of paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. All data in the documents of the applicants as manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, which are personal data within the meaning of the Personal Data Protection Act, shall be deleted. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Health on the proposed candidates, including issues to be referred to them no later than 3 days before the hearing of the candidates. 4. The mass media may send to the Committee on Health matters to candidates to be placed during the hearing no later than 3 days before the hearing of the candidates. 5. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 6. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. ==References====External links==*Prince Alexander I: No 1, Health Committee, or by e-mail address: health_conimitee@parliament.bg. 7. The opinions and the questions on this matter. 3 and 4 are published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly within 3 days of their receipt, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army 1. Candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund shall be checked for belonging to the bodies under art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Health. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Verification of submitted documents for admission of applicants to a hearing 1. The Committee on Health shall, within 3 days of the expiry of the period referred to in Section I. 1 sends a list of candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund at the Directorate General "Civil Registration and Administrative Service" to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for a check of citizenship as required by art. 21, para. 1, t. 1 of the Health Insurance Act and the absence of the legal restriction under art. 21, para. 1, t. 2 of the Health Insurance Act. 2. The Committee on Health at its meeting shall verify the documents submitted. 3. The Committee on Health may require additional information from both applicants and the competent authority concerned. 4. Candidates who have not submitted the documents under Section I shall not be allowed to be heard. 2. 5. Following the verification, the Health Commission shall draw up a list of applicants admitted to a hearing. The list shall be prepared in alphabetical order of the applicant's own names and shall be published immediately on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. V. Hearing of candidates 1. The Committee on Health shall only hear the applicants admitted, and the order shall be determined according to the list set out in Section IV. 5. 2. The hearing is public and is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Health. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the importer of the proposal for election as manager of the National Health Insurance Fund in an exhibition within two minutes. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Each candidate shall be given the opportunity to present himself, including to supplement data from his professional biography and to present his views on the development of the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund in an exhibition within 15 minutes. 5. The President of the Committee on Health shall present in summary the opinions and questions received by the persons referred to in art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with the statement for each question and opinion within two minutes. 6. The candidates shall answer their questions referred to in paragraph 1. Five in an exhibition in ten minutes. 7. Members of the National Assembly may ask questions to the candidates, including questions contained in the opinions of the persons referred to in art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the exhibition for each issue is up to two minutes. 8. The candidates shall answer their questions referred to in paragraph 1. 7 in Exhibition in 10 minutes. 9. A full stenographic protocol shall be drawn up from the hearing, which shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Committee on Health shall draw up and submit to the National Assembly a report on the results of the hearing of candidates for the appointment of the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund with the content set out in art. 93, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 11. Where several candidates for the post of Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund have been heard, the report referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 10 a list of candidates who participated in the hearing shall be applied in alphabetical order of their own names. The report shall also be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for the post of Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. 12. The report of the Committee on Health on the results of the hearing of candidates for the appointment of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund shall be made available to the Members of the National Health Insurance Fund no later than 24 hours before the start of the meeting at which the candidates will be voted and shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. VI. Election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund by the National Assembly 1. The meeting, which holds the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The Committee on Health provides the National Assembly with a report on the hearing of candidates for the appointment of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the importer of the selection proposal in an exhibition within two minutes. 4. Following the submission of the report under point (c) of the Annex to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 2 and candidates in accordance with the order of point 2. 3 The National Assembly shall hold debates on the submitted nominations under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. During the debates, the Members of the National Assembly may raise questions to the candidates. 5. After the debate is concluded, candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund may make speeches and answer the questions raised to them in an exhibition within 10 minutes. 6. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. 7. In cases where there are several candidates for the office of Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the names of the candidates, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 8. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 9. If two or more candidates have received an equal number of votes, a re-vote shall be held between them. 10. In the event that none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 11. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u22	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Colleagues, you have heard the draft decision on the adoption of the rules for proposals for a candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. I'm opening the debate. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Vote 139 MPs: 131, no objection, abstention 8. The procedural rules, as well as the four declarations, which are annexed to the Report, have been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE BULGARIAN FOOD AGENCY. Here you are, Mrs. Taneva, to brief us on the report. Colleagues, let's welcome our guests from Rotary Club Momchilgrad. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u23	Report on a Draft Law amending the Law on the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, No 702-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2017, adopted at the first vote on 21 June 2017. The Law on the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency was amended.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u24	Any suggestions?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u25	There is a proposal received by the National Representative Georgi Stankov, which is based on art. 84, para. 2th sentence third of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. It has not been discussed or voted on. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u26	You have the floor to speak. Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u27	As my proposals have not been addressed under procedure, I withdraw them.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u28	For all the proposals that have been made by you, is that correct?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u29	Which I've done, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u30	Thank you. Are there any other statements? I won't. We are voting on the text of the importer for the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 131 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 3. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u31	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u32	Statements? There are no speeches. We vote on the text of the importer for § 1, supported by the Commission. Vote 131 MPs: 130, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u33	"Additional provision'. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the subdivision be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u34	Statements? I won't. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. They voted 130 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal to reject the importer's text on the name of the subdivision has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u35	According to § 2 "Concluding statements', § 3 and § 4 including no proposals received, there are no proposals for technical editorials of the Commission. I therefore propose to vote anbloc by supporting the texts of the importer in the paragraphs and "Concludings".
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u36	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 2, the name of the Board of Directors, the Final Provisions and § 3 and 4. They are all supported by the Commission. They voted 132 MPs: 130, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 2, the name of the "Concluding provisions', § 3 and 4 of the Commission report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u37	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In the Law on excises and tax warehouses (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 45d all over the world, the words "the Ministry of Agriculture and Food" and "the Minister of Agriculture and Food" shall be replaced by "the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry" and "the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry" respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u38	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported and edited by the Commission in accordance with the text on the report. Vote 128 MPs: for 126, against none, abstention 2. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u39	Under § 6 and 7 there are no proposals for technical editorials or proposals received. The Commission supports the texts of the two paragraphs, so I propose that an importer vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u40	We are voting § 6 and 7 on the Commission report. They voted 129 MPs: 120, none, abstention 9. Paragraphs 6 and 7 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u41	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In the Biodiversity Act (prom., SG No. ...) all over the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u42	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 8 by importer, supported and edited by the Commission, as presented in its report. Vote 134 MPs: 130 against 1, abstention 3. Paragraph 8 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u43	Under § 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 including no proposals received, no proposals for amendments to the Commission. The Commission shall support these import texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u44	Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 9 to 17 including on the Commission's report. 135 MPs voted: 132, none, abstention 3. Paragraphs 9 to 17 including the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u45	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18: .............................................................................. In the Law on State Property (prom., SG No. ...) all over the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u46	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 18 on the Commission report. Vote 138 MPs: for 136, there is no objection, abstention 2. Paragraph 18 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u47	Under § 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26, no proposals were received. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for those paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u48	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? No. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 19 to 26, including on the Commission's report. They voted 129 MPs: 126, none, abstention 3. Paragraph 19 to 26 including the Commission's report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u49	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27: "The Bible says: In the Law on the Protection of New Species of Plants and Breeding Animals (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 3 the words "the agriculture and food sectors' shall be replaced by "the agriculture, food and forestry sectors'. 2. Everywhere in the law, the words "the Ministry of Agriculture and Food" and "the Minister of Agriculture and Food" shall be replaced by "the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry," "the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry" and "the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry," respectively. "The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry" shall be replaced by "the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry" and "the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u50	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 27 on the Commission report. They voted 130 MPs: 126, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 27 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u51	Under § 28, 29, 30 and 31, including no proposals received, there are no proposals for amendments to the Commission. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer referred to in those paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u52	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 28 to 31, including on the Commission's report. Vote 128 MPs: 125, none, abstention 3. Paragraphs 28 to 31 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u53	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Protected Areas (prom., SG No. ...) all over the world the words...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u54	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 32 on the Commission report. 140 MPs voted: 137 against 3, no abstentions. Paragraph 32 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u55	Under § 33 and 34, no proposals have been received, nor any proposals for amendments by the Commission. The Commission shall support the importer's texts for those paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u56	We are voting § 33 and 34 on the Commission report. They voted 136 MPs: 132, none, abstention 4. Paragraphs 33 and 34 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u57	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 35: .............................................................................. In the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Taxes on Incomes of Individuals (prom., SG No. ...) in § 27 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the words everywhere the Minister of Agriculture and Food are replaced by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u58	We are voting § 35 on the Commission report. Vote 138 MPs: 131 against 4, abstention 3. Paragraph 35 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u59	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Corporate Income Tax (prom., SG No. ...) in § 42 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the words everywhere the Minister of Agriculture and Food are replaced by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u60	We are voting § 36 on the Commission report. Vote 137 MPs: 133, against 2, abstention 2. Paragraph 36 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u61	According to § 37 and 38 of the importer, there are no proposals received, no proposals for amendments to the Commission. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u62	We are voting § 37 and 38 on the Commission report. Vote 142 MPs: 139 against 2, abstention 1. Paragraphs 37 and 38 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u63	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 39: .............................................................................. In the Law on Cadastral and Property Register (prom., SG No. ...) all over the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u64	We are voting § 39 on the Commission report. They voted 143 MPs: 140, none, abstention 3. Paragraph 39 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u65	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u66	We are voting § 40 by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 143 MPs: 140, none, abstention 3. Paragraph 40 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u67	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41: ............................................................................. In the Law on Healing Plants (prom., SG No. ...) all over the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u68	We are voting § 41 on the Commission report. Vote 138 MPs: 135, none, abstention 3. Paragraph 41 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u69	Under paragraphs 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47 and 48 including no proposals received, no proposals for Commission editorials. The Commission shall support the importer's texts for those paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u70	We are voting on paragraphs 42 to 48 on the Commission report. They voted 143 MPs: 138, none, abstention 5. Paragraphs 42 to 48, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u71	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Property (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In § 5 of the Transitional and Final Rules, the words "the Minister of Agriculture and Food', "the Minister of Forests and the Conservation of the Natural Environment' shall be replaced by "the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry'. 2. In the other texts of the law, the words "the Ministry of Agriculture and Food" and "the Minister of Agriculture and Food" shall be replaced by "the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry," "the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry" and "the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry" respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u72	We are voting § 49 on the Commission report. They voted 144 MPs: 142, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 49 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u73	Under paragraphs 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63 and 64, no proposals have been received and no proposals have been tabled by the Commission. The Commission shall support the importer's texts for paragraphs 50 to 64 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u74	We are voting on paragraphs 50 to 64, including the Commission report. Vote 148 MPs: for 147, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 50 to 64, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u75	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law of the Agricultural Academy (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In § 1, para. 1 of the Additional provision: (a) in para. 1 the words "the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (IMH) " shall be replaced by "the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry'; (b) in para. 2 the words "the Minister of Agriculture and Food" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry." 2. In the other texts of the Law, the words "the Minister of Agriculture and Food" and "the Minister of Agriculture and Food" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry" and "the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry" respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u76	We are voting § 65 on the Commission report. They voted 143 MPs: 137, none, abstention 6. Paragraph 65 of the Commission's report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u77	Under paragraphs 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72 and 73, including no proposals received, there are no proposals for amendments to the Commission. The Commission shall support the importer's texts for those paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u78	We are voting on paragraphs 66 to 73, including the Commission report. They voted 133 MPs: 130, none, abstention 3. Paragraphs 66 to 73, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u79	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 74: ................ 74.................................................................. In the Law on the Center for Risk Assessment on the Food Chain (prom., SG No. ...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u80	We are voting § 74 on the Commission report. Vote 138 MPs: 135, none, abstention 3. Paragraph 74 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u81	Under paragraphs 75 and 76, no proposals have been received or proposals have been made for an amendment to the Commission. The Commission supports the importer's texts for the two paragraphs which are last in the proposed Draft.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u82	We are voting on paragraphs 75 and 76 on the Commission report. They voted 146 MPs: 143, none, abstention 3. Paragraphs 75 and 76 of the Commission report have been adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE RECEIVED AND THE ARGUED FORES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Yesterday, the reports of two committees were presented to your attention. We continue with the opinion of the importer. One of the importers? Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I would like to present the reasons for the Draft Law amending the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The proposed Draft shall propose amendments to the provisions of art. Art. 79, Art. 82 concerning the figure of the Permanent Secretary of Defense. The aim is to address existing ambiguities and incompleteness in the provisions in force which lead to conflicting practice in their application, in the event of the occurrence and termination of relations with the highest state head of the Ministry of Defence, respectively, of his powers. The project will achieve full synchronization between the texts of this Law and the provisions of the Law on the Civil Service Officer, with regard to the requirements for the occupation, implementation of the powers and termination of relations with the Permanent Secretary of Defence. It is proposed to introduce clear and specific requirements for the occupation of a permanent secretary of defence, taking into account the required requirements for rank and professional experience in the classification of posts in the administration. It focuses on the availability of professional experience, management position in the administration, part of which, and as a civil servant in the Ministry of Defence, in order to ensure the ability to know the specifics of the activities of the office. The emergence of relations with the Permanent Secretary of Defence requires the establishment of a clear procedure of his choice. As a referring legal provision, the possibility of judicial review of the Minister of Defence's decision to approve or reject the proposed candidate in the selection committee shall be excluded. The new version of art. 82 was drawn up by analogy with the provisions of the Diplomatic Service Act concerning the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Interior Act with regard to the Administrative Secretary of the Ministry of Interior. The reason for the proposed amendment is that the provisions laid down in this version of art. 82 of the Law hypotheses for early termination of the power of the Permanent Secretary of Defence do not coincide with cases of termination of relations with this civil servant. Some of them are incompletely reproduced, and others are missing, for example, the imposition of punishment. This leads to an inability and a serious difficulty in applying that provision. With the new paragraph in art. 136 A requirement is introduced for a hearing by the Defence Committee to the National Assembly of the officers proposed to be awarded a senior officer's rank before considering their candidacy by the Council of Ministers. The proposal does not conflict and does not violate the existing norms in art. 22, para. 2, p. 19, in the sense of the amendments to the Law on General Management of Defence and Armed Forces by the Council of Ministers................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 27, p. 6 as regards the regulated responsibilities of the Minister of Defence, and Art. 33, para. 3, p. 5 under the functions of the Defence Council, as an aid authority of the Minister of Defence. The hearing of the officers of the members of the Defence Committee is a step arising from the status and functions of the Commission as a specialized body of the National Assembly. Her participation in the formation of the defence policy of the Republic of Bulgaria and assistance in its precise conduct suggests adequate awareness of the state and perspective of the development of the senior command staff. The proposal to supplement the Defence and Armed Forces Act in the Defence Committee will ensure greater transparency of the initiated officer award process first, and subsequent military rank, as well as taking up a position justified in terms of future responsibilities of the submitted applications. The hearing will be a manifestation and an incentive for candidates to present themselves to the main body of the National Assembly on defence and armed forces, to respond to the questions asked and to develop their vision in the performance of future functional duties and responsibilities in command and management. The hearing of the Defence Committee will raise the formal authority of the senior officer's rank and without affecting the decision of the Council of Ministers, respectively the President of the Republic, will give a complete conclusion to the overall process of awarding the candidate and taking up the respective position. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria (DV. No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 138, as in c. 6 The senior This requires the synchronization of the provisions of art. Art. 138, Art. 160 of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Stankov. Second opinion of an importer? There won't be. I'm opening the debate. Please come in for a statement. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u85	Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! Somehow quiet, quiet and seemingly uninterested to be viewed on these bills. I'll speak on the second one submitted by Mr. Popov and a group of MPs, and it won't be quiet and quiet, it'll be polite, but... I'll give you arguments as to why you shouldn't support this bill. This bill represents a new attack on the President! [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB.]] This bill is interfering with the President's authority! It is a gross violation of the separation of authorities, a hollow law that does not give rise to legal consequences, but is a waving of a finger to the presidential institution. This bill surrounds the Constitution and violates it. And now I'm gonna tell you why. The Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria states that: The President appoints and releases the senior command of the Armed Forces and honors with senior military titles on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. This is the actual composition of the Constitution.. a proposal of the Council of Ministers and an act of the President. By the Law you propose, you supplement the Constitution by law because you say that the President can issue this act only after a mandatory hearing of the candidates in the Defence Committee. Before he started the procedure through the Council of Ministers and through the President. That is, to two parts of the actual composition of the Constitution by law, which is absolutely unacceptable, you add a third one. Why do I say this Law is hollow? Because in the very motives you have written that it will not affect the decisions of the Council of Ministers and the President. Then why are you doing this? There will be no legal consequences, but we are adopting a special law on this. Perhaps you'll take another step in trying to limit the president. You would suggest such a thing for both ambassadors and diplomats?! Since you want his authority to give a position to pass through the parliament of a preliminary hearing, well, if you are going to apply the same arsin next week, you will apply it to the ambassadors as well. What kind of policy is that for attitude? Why are you doing this? And you wrote in the motives why this is being done. First: To elevate the formal authority of the senior officer. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Army and the Church are the only institutions with a positive rating. The army has 30% approval, and the parliament has 9% approval. Can anyone explain to me how an institution with a 9% rating will raise the authority of one with a 30% rating? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] No, you will bring her down to ours, unfortunately, with these actions. A second motive that you have written down: to have greater transparency in service. Well, there might be one now! There is a Defence Committee, there are Rules of Parliament that say you can invite anyone to come and listen to them. However, you are now making this mandatory by Law and as part of the actual composition of the text in the Constitution. If you want transparency, invite these people, no one bothers you! The rules give you the right to hear them, invite journalists, ask them questions. We don't need a special law to tell the President:...................................................................................................... We will decide here who we blow off and who we don't, and we will take away your right to judge who you give titles to! Therefore, we will not support this Law for the reasons I have pointed out both legal and factually and for the violation of the principle of separation of powers. However, I am using the discussion of the Law. I address Prime Minister Borisov because we have no illusion that he is behind this. The fact that a group of MPs are importing it on their own is a joke. You can't do that without the Prime Minister's approval. So to him: stop this war with President Radev! Stop with every act of your own to stir up opposition between the institutions, because this is harmful to statehood! Besides, you don't have Mr. Plevneliev across the street. Figure it out, guys, finally! Mr. Tsvetanov said in a reply to President Radev the other day, "Don't try to stick a wedge between me and Mr. Borisov." Others have tried and failed! We don't have any. They're working together! Now please hear my words: do not try to tame President Radev! That's not gonna happen. You're gonna fail at this. But failing in this personal battle will ruin the state and statehood! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. For lines? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u87	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Ninova! I was happy to listen to your speech. There is only one small problem in it. The President cannot appoint if the Council of Ministers does not propose in principle. This isn't about anyone interfering with work and procedure. In fact, if you talk to your colleagues from the portfolio committee, you will see that we have reached a consensus there So this concern has been cleared up between us in the Commission and, accordingly, it is a commitment from both our political group and BSP to bring similar changes to the Second Reading Act. One hand at a time. Secondly, if we are talking about diplomats, by the way, diplomats and are currently obliged to go to a hearing in the Foreign Policy Committee and it has long been a desire by the BSP to do so by law. You may ask Mr. Yanaki Stoilov and Mr. Christian Vigenin, who have long wanted this thing to enter the Diplomatic Service Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. Any other lines? I can't see. For the doppelganger, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u89	Dear colleague! We are discussing today a text which has been submitted to the Chamber and read it. And here it says: The Council of Ministers examines the proposals for the award of officers with senior officers after their hearing in the Defence Committee of the National Assembly. That is, the hearing is a preliminary ruling, which is why the whole mechanism should start, not after it has been approved. [[GERB lines.]] We read what you signed from GERB. I can also tell you who: Konstantin Popov, Plamen Manushev, Plamen Nunev and so on. First is the hearing of the Commission on this proposal, then the Council of Ministers, then the President. Your second argument and a line. Why should you do this in a special law, since the Rules of Procedure and now the Rules of Procedure are law, allows it to you. Well, call them, listen to them before then, then! You have this legal option, a factual possibility. Ask them questions! Why do you need a special law in which you have even written that it will have no effect? It will not affect the decision of the Council of Ministers, it will not affect the President's decision. Why do you need this, then, when you can do it normally without exceptional law. This is extraordinary legislation. What's it for? Well, it's normal to think about what, especially when it violates the Constitution to restrict the President's powers. Surrounded, through the law! And now I have to tell you if you accept this text that complements constitutional text, 48 signatures, not 80 signatures, 48 signatures are necessary, but you will have 80, and if this is accepted, you are going to the Constitutional Court. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Colleagues, since it is 11.29 p.m., I am giving 30 minutes off and then we will continue with the debates on the bill. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u91	Colleagues, break's over. We are continuing the debate on the Bill. Mr. Velkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will refer to the other part of the proposal for Amendment and Supplement to the Defence and Armed Forces Act, not what we have heard from Mrs. Ninova. I hope that Nikolay Tsonkov, present here, is also Vice-President of the Defence Committee, will take into account the status of the Permanent Secretary. I'd like to tell you this. Just a slight remark, Mr. Gadget. We have not reached any consensus on what you have said. It was about after the Council of Ministers, after the proceedings and so on. You propose, honourable Members, an amendment to art. 79 on the permanent secretary and in it you set a criterion, notice who has received a higher annual assessment of the performance of the post. Further, see what you are offering us, and then you will hear our proposal: The selection of a candidate is carried out by a committee. The Minister of Defence sends the proposal for the appointment of a permanent secretary for coordination by the Prime Minister. Do you know what this is about? However, you are not telling us otherwise that on 31 May 2017 with its order No ОХ "150 the Minister of Defence Mr. Karakachanov orders to make a selection for the appointment of the position of the Permanent Secretary" indicates which employees can apply and listen to what criteria he lays down completely different from what you offer us. Actually, you're trying to lead us on. First, an annual assessment of the performance of the job Received the highest annual assessment and future potential of the candidate. However, in this order, which, if you do not know it, I will give it to you right now, the following is written:................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That is, one month ago, the Deputy Minister of Defence presented a report to the Minister, and you want us to now vote on amendments to the Law. From all that we see and from the requirements that you have set, and not those in the Minister's order, it is clear that it is a certain person. If any of you disagree, I can tell you his name, but we will not set a precedent in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u93	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. For lines? I can't see. Next statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our political position is not to support the proposed by you Bill by Konstantin Popov and a group of MPs for two very important reasons. They are also related to the hearing in which it has already been about the production of the generals, with the permanent secretary. What are the two reasons? The first, this position is unique and I do not understand why it should change the order in which it is appointed and released? To be reduced to an ordinary employee, provided it has these unique functions! And one more thing is breaking the principle of mandate, of continuity in the Ministry. It's not the first time we've said there's one uncertainty in the system. Well, with such changes we continue to impose this uncertainty, instability. Until when? Secondly, the Permanent Secretary cannot be compared even with the Permanent Secretary of the Foreign Ministry, because the Ministry of Defence says that the Permanent Secretary is the senior official, a professional supervisor. Yeah, but at the Department of Defense, that's the Chief of Defense. [[Noise and lines.]] They're not equal. Third, the job. Let us recall: the Permanent Secretary is introduced with an idea to integrate into himself and combine the General Staff and the Ministry of Defence. That is, this idea of moderate integration is combined in the powers and functions of the permanent secretary. Therefore, I do not understand exactly what the reasons for the proposed bill are? What is the need for these changes? The model of the Permanent Secretary and the Chief of Defence, such as implementing the strategic management at the Ministry of Defence, should rather not be compared in this way to the functions of any ministry and any Secretary-General or Permanent Secretary of the Foreign Ministry. You've recorded in art. 79 that the Permanent Secretary of Defense is the highest civil servant in the Ministry of Defence. Yeah, but that's against art. 5, para. 2 of the Civil Service Act, because it says: Why does the existing text need to be changed? In the next place and in the main place, many interesting requirements are introduced in the powers and rather in the choice of permanent secretary. They are not only introduced by the ranking for the positions in the administration, but are thus recorded that behind them there is something very simple. I won't name the face. So, how long are we gonna be doing jobs for certain people? Aren't we finally supposed to look at the systems? We can't accept such suggestions! And there is something else I would like to say about the requirements introduced. Once they are in the classification, let them remain there, they must be fulfilled. For greater flexibility and operationality, there is no need to change texts in this way. Finally, I would like to say again about the way it is written that the permanent secretary under the Civil Service Act must be released. Well, I'm sorry, but we can't accept such a recording because, as I said, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Defense is something completely different from the Permanent Secretary of the Foreign Ministry. It combines civil-military expertise with a proposal to the Minister for Recruitment. What are we talking about? So, you want a unique model with the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Defense, to cross it off lightly. Enough of this senseless change. What's the bottom line? Once again, you are proposing changes that aim to set up a particular person and, secondly, to change the order for his release to comply with the Law on the Civil Service Officer by depreciating it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u95	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Mr. Toshev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will take account of the other bill, which was submitted by the Council of Ministers, is again about amendments to the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, but it allows the servicemen to take leave under art. 167a of the Labour Code under the general labour law, i.e. to be entitled to unpaid leave within the first eight years of the child's life of six months. The use of leave of art shall be encouraged. 167a of the Labour Code on an equal basis by the two spouses and the balance between professional and private life is supported by supporting the raising of children in the context of a demographic crisis. With the proposed amendment, our legislation is harmonised with the requirement of Directive 18 of 8 March 2010 for the implementation of the Framework Agreement on parental leave and encouraging men to increase their share in family responsibilities. I would like to point out here that our legislation has adopted a broader basis than the minimum requirements of the Framework Agreement, namely that leave is six months, provided that the Framework Agreement requires at least four months. Last but not least, we should also bear in mind the pilot procedure launched against the Republic of Bulgaria for non-compliance with art. 203, para. 3 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria in question Directive 18 of 2010. There is a risk of starting a formal procedure and according to the requirements of the procedure we must notify the amendment by 31 July 2017. I would also like to draw attention to a potential problem that will arise with the adoption of this provision, namely, the commanders do not have a mechanism to replace the serviceman who has used this parental leave for both maternity and paternity. And de Legi Ferenda perhaps the problem should be solved through the mechanisms of voluntary military service, as well as by providing better funding for the opportunities provided by the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Another approach, albeit with a partial solution, is to limit ourselves within those four months, which are minimally required by the Framework Agreement on parental leave.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. The next statement was made by Mr. Gajev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After the defence and argumentation of the Law of the Council of Ministers, I will return to the Bill, which has been tabled by me and a group of MPs. Unfortunately, the debate I have been listening to so far shows a cruel ignorance of the defence system and major strategic mistakes. By the way, the Permanent Secretary and the Chief of Defence are leveled out in the integrated Ministry of Defence, with the Chief of Defence in charge of military expertise and military expertise and the Permanent Secretary in charge of administration. The two support each other's activities.. one by hand. Secondly, there's an accusation here that it's being made for a person. Well, you gentlemen yourself said that such a person already had an appointment, so how do we make a bill for someone who has already been appointed is a little absurd this whole statement. The whole idea of this Bill came because of one other thing, came because of the outrage committed by the caretaker government in March, when in two weeks a man who, without a day of administrative service in any state administration, was appointed permanent secretary. Without a single day's internship in the public administration! He was originally appointed to replace as a junior expert and within two weeks became the highest civil servant in the ministry. If you think that such things are right and that there should be loopholes in the Law, vote against. We just want to regulate so that we don't get such outrage anymore. With the arguments and with all the texts that we have mentioned here, we best describe the possibilities of what the permanent secretary should answer. By the way, a large part of them are now in the Law only being refined so as to close these loopholes. Even more so, in t. 2 of para. Art. 2, Art. 3, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, 79 We want him to have been at least one year in office at the Ministry of Defence, not only at the moment, he might have been before, but had experience in the system. Whether he's a current employee or not, but to have experience in the system. As for the other requirements for the years, for the rank and so on, I think these are a completely clear requirement for a person who will lead the administration and who also has the authority on the country's defence policy. These are very important changes. Here, even several times, I have heard some confusions that are mentioned both not under the Law on the Civil Service, and they refer to the Law on the Civil Service. Colleagues, he's a civil servant. The Permanent Secretary is in the Foreign Office, whether in the Defence, or the Administrative Secretary in the Ministry of Interior. I would also like to say a few words to you under § 2, or rather § 3, which is because of the hearing that we said. Here I have a feeling that we little know the system by which the appointments of the senior command staff or the way they are proposed to take up positions that require a superior general rank. First of all, it's not the President's decision, it's the Minister's decision. The Chief of Defence is proposing for the army and the Deputy Minister of Defence is proposing for the Minister's armed forces. The minister may agree with this proposal, he may not agree and he may point out a person himself. These nominations shall be reviewed by the Defence Council, which shall be the advisory body of the Minister of Defence. Only after the minister decides which people to propose can he hold informal co-ordination with the presidency, he may not hold them, then submit them to the Council of Ministers to make a decision, and then propose to the President. The President, for his part, may issue a decree, and may not issue a decree, that is his right. In the way we comment here, we rather control the activities of the minister and the executive. But let us distinguish between the powers of the various institutions in producing the senior command. And really, let's see where it would be more appropriate to be before or after?! Because if it is after the Council of Ministers, it can now really be interpreted as an attempt to delay the President's decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Mr. Toshev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, once again, for which time I am already surprised by how clear and black-and-white things can be tracted. You see or look for reasons to sharpen dialogue, to open wars and so on. In what we propose, I suppose the proposal of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Defence does not have any collisions, but in the three proposals we make, we should not see politics for the simple reason that there is none. These colleagues, who are members of the Defence Committee and now and in previous editions of the National Assembly, know very well that there, on any occasion, we have never allowed ourselves to debate politically because it is a matter of state affairs concerning the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. In no way are we trying to politicize things right now. For the Permanent Secretary of Defence, if you have read our proposal, you will see that literally one to one is adapted by the Law on Civil Servants and its sole purpose is to clear the ambiguities that there are in the current Law on Defence and Armed Forces, which is mandatory for the Minister, and which led to what my colleague before me mentioned, to appoint to the most responsible executive posts government officials who do not have any internship, because then we risk blaming a responsible institution, such as the civilian staff of the Ministry of Defence. We have provided for 8 years for the IV state rank of employee; three years of management experience and at least one year at the Ministry of Defence, and its final assessment by attestations is higher than the one required for the post held. In other words, we are not looking for Ivan Petrov Dimitrov, but we are looking for someone who meets the requirements for the position to which he should be appointed. A complete nonsense is the suspicion that with the Law that will enter into force perhaps in a month, two or no time, we are looking to settle the affairs of the Minister of Defence at the moment with a man for whom he has already issued an order for appointment. How can this be completely incomprehensible to me?! In order not only to obtain these precedents, but also with the regular ministers of defence, we propose that the Defence and Armed Forces Act should describe: what are the requirements for the selection, who chooses, what are the requirements for the appointment and who fires this person, with what mandate he is, what responsibilities he has and nothing more. On the more pointed topic of a debate on the promotion of officers in the next senior officer's rank, if the Defence Committee colleagues had any contact with the chairman of their parliamentary group, it would be clear that in the Defence Committee we agreed that this hearing would be after a decision was made by the Council of Ministers so that there would be no suspicion that we were predestining something. This one, first. Secondly, in the hearing, which we propose to the Generalite to happen in the Defence Committee, there is nothing political about the simple reason that there are currently enough Members of the Defence Committee who have not seen a living General. We propose, firstly, to raise the authority of the senior command of the army inviting him to the Defence Committee for a professional, responsible and focused on the future development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria conversation, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, there is no record anywhere that the hearing of candidates for promotion in the next general rank of officers may be relevant to the procedure for their production. Absolutely nowhere! [[Noise and lines.]] We are doing this so that, first of all, the generality can get acquainted with one of the leading bodies of defence and the armed forces in this republic and, second, so that the MPs can get acquainted with the general. This is our goal, and this is a good practice, which I ask you to realize and accept as normal, by no means seeking or opening wars. Second, a personal request... do not, whenever you hear the word General....... to associate it in one sentence with the word President..................................................................................... There's no connection.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u101	The president is a general!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u102	There's no connection. The president, who is a general, or the general who is president, we knew him a long, long time ago, long before you met him. Don't make connections that aren't there. Something that's never been mentioned before. I'll argue our third proposal. We allowed it when we changed to the Defence Act and the Armed Forces the title of "Commodore" with a "Flotile Admiral" we failed to change the member at which is determined how old the fleet admiral can serve. We're just clearing this pass now and nothing more. We don't change the name of the title. That's the truth. I would like to return to the debate and tone that we had in the Defence Committee, also looking at these texts. Let us allow the senior command staff of the army in the presence of the Minister or his authorised Deputy Minister and the Chief of Defence to come and talk about the members of the Defence Committee. In this Parliament, we are not the majority of us. A large part of the opposition, from other political forces represented in parliament. Everyone has the right and the opportunity to talk, to think together, concerned about the development of the Armed Forces of the Bulgarian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev! - What's the line? Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u104	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Toshev! I see that you, too, are slowly beginning to come to the realization that the expert has actually begun to lose his place in the political and political affairs of our fellow Members. Because if we remember the Forty-second National Assembly, the then Chairman of the Foreign Policy Commission from Coalition for Bulgaria not only listened to the proposed diplomats, but sent opinions to the Commission whether this diplomat was up or not to the President. Then no one touches! You see, here they're trying to get us into an extra war. To invent an intrigue, to intrigue between the Presidential Administration and the National Assembly. Mr. Toshev, please state that this is not really about this. It's about a perfectly normal procedure with which we want to raise the prestige of generals and admirals in our army, not put us in an intrigue that almost someone is declaring war on someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u105	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Another line? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u106	Mr. Toshev and colleagues, and now you don't mind calling these people to the Commission and listening to them. In the last parliament, however, this did not happen with an extraordinary law, and today you are doing it with an extraordinary law. And please enter into the history of the Forty-fourth National Assembly the following expert pearl, not political. An expert pearl! Forty-fourth National Assembly passed an extraordinary law so that the MPs could get acquainted with generals and generals to meet the MPs. That's what Mr. Toshev said. If the Forty-fourth National Assembly passes laws of extraordinary order and in violation of the Constitution, you have hit the bottom and dig down! It's a pity about parliamentaryism!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Toshev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u108	Thank you. To Mr. Gazhev, see what is proposed by colleagues, to change our regulations, he is the Commission's internal rules. With this internal rules of the Commission, we cannot oblige anyone but the members of the Commission. Changing the Rules of Parliament is just like changing the Defense and Armed Forces Act, because both are law. Secondly, whether we violate the Constitution or not, it is not for me or Mrs. Ninova to decide. It's decided by a special court, and she should know better. Thirdly, I hope that this debate will be brought down to the President's knowledge and understand from the source, from the importers, that there is nothing directed against him. He has long since become a general and, hopefully, he will no longer return to the Armed Forces, except as commander-in-chief. What you are saying, ask your members and your Vice-President of the Commission how many living generals know and how many living officers are active. So... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u109	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u110	I don't see what's ironic or what's really in what I said. Last but not least, do not think that we, who have spent our entire lives in defense and armed forces, have something against the officers, sergeants, soldiers and generalities of this army. I tell you again: what you claim is not true. We can't invite the Land Army Commander because he has to ask permission from the Minister. He can't come anywhere and talk about anyone without the permission of his superior superior officer, any officer in the army. Please let them inform you. And the last thing I'm going to do is finish my coat with one regret, without affecting any of my coworkers right now. I regret that there is no Angel Naydenov in this Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. [[Applause from GERB.]] Any other speeches? Mr. Mihov, then Mr. Manushev made a wish.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will address the key issue with § 3. I must say good words about the Defence Committee and all the representatives of all the parliamentary groups in this Commission. I think there was an extremely professional and highly responsible debate. There were very serious arguments in the discussion of this paragraph. It was discussed an idea that it should be edited, even if it might be dropped. The general opinion, even shared by the majority of representatives from the BSP, was that such an amendment is useful and good. Yes, for the first time we can say in history, the Bulgarian Parliament, the National Assembly will have to do with the appointment of senior officers in the Bulgarian Army. Never before has the legislative authority had any bearing on the career development of the army and the officers' office under either the Tarnovo Constitution or the subsequent republican constitutions. They were exclusive to the executive power of the monarch and later to the party state. And I think that when defending the thesis on the rule of law, the Constitution and the parliamentary republic, it makes no sense to argue that Parliament cannot and should not have any bearing on the rise in the highest rank of officer. Of course, this attitude should be so dosed that no politicisation and party cadres are allowed in the Bulgarian senior officers. These are the two basic principles that we of the United Patriarchs are defending. And in the debate there were very clear arguments, proposals when to be this, let's call it a hearing, presentation, but in no case sanctioning by the Defence Committee of the future Bulgarian generals. And I think that an agreement has been reached, which has been registered in the minutes of the Commission, to edit this § 3, which will respond to these two principles that parliament in a parliamentary republic should have a bearing on the production of the senior Bulgarian officers and, the second, not to allow the politicisation, the partision, the production, in this area. And this was supported by some of the representatives of the BSP, for which I personally welcome them. Because it was a professional, honest and patriotic debate. Today, BSP comes out again with another declaration of war on a foreign name. Once again he stands in defence of the uninvaded by no one and the highly respected by us, the United Patriarchs, President of the Republic of Bulgaria, as we have respected all presidents so far and declare that we will respect all the following. That's something we can't agree on. And I am convinced that with a responsible debate in the Commission at second reading we will achieve the dosing of these two principles and the drafting of a really active text of the Law, which in the future not only for now, but also for the next National Assembly, and for the next Presidents, to honor the high honour of the future Bulgarian generals to present themselves and to be heard by the Defence Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u113	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. To speak, Admiral Manushev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'd like to join Assoc. Mihov, that the atmosphere in the Defence Committee is indeed what should be in an institution and in an element of the National Assembly, which is responsible for the development of the state, the development of the Bulgarian army, and I also believe that a very serious debate was held without sharp attacks on these issues, which are proposed in this Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces. There really weren't any such allegations of a violation of the Constitution or something so loud. The debate was extremely professional. I do not know why this opposition was received in this House once again, which brings nothing good either for the Bulgarian army or for the image of the Bulgarian general. I'll say a few words on the bill. Little in the shadows remained the Bill of the Council of Ministers, as it was the initiative and not the extraordinary Law on the Hearing of Generals. We in our group decided to use the change in the Defense and Armed Forces Act. It's related to art. 79 The right of men to take maternity leave as well, as is known, as a serious penalty will be imposed on the criminal procedure of the Republic of Bulgaria. That's why we accepted it, and it was urgent that it be accepted. This is a very serious act. By the way, everyone agreed to vote for the Bulgarian army, but it will lead to an even worse state in the Bulgarian army, because a large part of the servicemen will take advantage of the opportunity to go out in motherhood, and then really now the girls, probably a third of them are in motherhood when the fathers come out, then there will really be no one left to carry the service. I joked in the Commission that 1985, when I studied in Leningrad, alcohol was totally banned, and then to say something positive about the officers who drank, they said they drank with disgust, which was positive. I was dissatisfied with voting for this Law, but it is imperative, as the sanctions at least what has been written are something very serious, and we cannot fail to accept such an amendment. And because of this amendment are our three amendments to a group of MPs from the Political Party GERB. Such a change is indeed necessary for the Permanent Secretary because, if the caretaker government had not made this appointment during his term of office, there would not have been such an amendment. We want to bring order, it's not about a place for someone. Things are really divided there, the permanent secretary is in the administration, and the Chief of Defense is dealing with the Chief of Defense, and the Permanent Secretary is not his superior, believe me. I would never speak on topics, for example, of healthcare, of agriculture, as I do not quite understand them, but most of the things that you have advocated here, and you have not advocated, by the way, in the Defence Committee, are not true, are not correct. We don't violate the Constitution, we don't attack anyone, not at all. General Radev and I have known each other for so many years that no one needs to tell us what he is and who he is. We served Bulgaria together. Our relationship is wonderful, even though we were opponents during the presidential campaign, but we hardly said a word against each other because we really know each other and respect him as a flyer, a general, and now as a president, as a head of state. Regarding the generals' hearing. We do not have, honestly, such an intention to oppose again the National Assembly to the President. No, we didn't have that thought, believe me! It's not the Prime Minister's idea at all. This is our idea in this group to make sure that the generals do not get acquainted, be heard, come to the Commission. Believe me, the Bulgarian general has not set foot here. I have served 35 years as an officer and entered the National Assembly twice, and as Deputy Chief of Defense. There is awe in the officer of this institution. Believe it! And that he would be invited to a conversation, to say what it is, to ask him questions, to say what he's doing, what's wrong with that thing? Nothing. We agreed in the Defence Committee when it should be. It was written before the Council of Ministers. We said good. It's an important idea. And we accepted the idea that we should do it. We'll change it as you say. Maybe after the Council of Ministers and after the President, that's not the point. It's not our idea to make a general stop. It's neither our job nor we want to do this thing. The idea was for the General to come, to see the Defence Committee, where there is not only the ruling coalition, there is also the opposition, and we are a balance almost, we are almost the same number. But this is useful, believe me, for the Bulgarian general and who will become a general to come, to see the respect of the most important institution in this country, in the parliamentary republic. This is Parliament, and with fairy tales such as this we only destroy its authority with the eternal thought of some conspiracy or some back-up. They're not like that. The vast majority of these people have come to serve the Bulgarian people and Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u115	Thank you, dear Admiral Manushev. - What's the line? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Mr. Popov, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues on the left, please take your seats. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, absolutely unnecessary action by the ruling majority with the proposed bill. There is no need for such a Law because there is already such a Law, and this Law is called, here is this booklet, which you all should have read about the organization and activities of the National Assembly, which has the power of law, and that of a special law. I'll read to you. 28, para. 4 of our Rules, which you must know: The State authorities and officials of the state and municipal administration and the citizens are obliged to provide, upon request, all the information and documents as well as the opinions necessary for the work of the Standing Committees. Next paragraph: At the request of one third of the members of the committee, the Chair shall be obliged to make an immediate request to state authorities and public and municipal officials to attend a committee meeting. Those invited shall appear before the Commission and provide the information requested to them and respond to the questions referred to them within 7 days of the invitation or at the first regular meeting if it is after the expiry of those 7 days. Third text in our............................................................................................ 32: Any member of a Standing Committee may invite individual natural persons or representatives of legal persons concerned with the questions in question by the Committee to attend its meeting. Another text in our Rules regarding art. 117: Art. 117. (1) Officials and citizens, when invited, shall be obliged to appear before the parliamentary committees and to provide them with the information and documents they request. There are four texts in our Rules regarding what you are proposing, and at the same time you are trying through law to arrange something that has already been arranged, and which is obviously the logic that we have here expressed in previous statements what are you doing it for? It's just an unnecessary blow to the air to do through a law, a sit-down to get to know each other. Here it is, if you want to get to know each other, to come to a group, to parliament, to committee, to get to know each other. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] Madam President, I ask you to take action with regard to the calls of colleagues from the OP.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u117	Okay, Mr. Popov, thank you for your speech. Do we have a line? First line, Mr. Hristov, second line, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u118	Madam President, honourable Members! Do you remember Schweik's war was going very well until the General Staff intervened? The Defence Committee worked well with different opinions, reaching consensus sometimes until the political forces were involved in it. We've put a lot of politics into this debate, it's still the Defense Act. The more we charge it with politics, the worse it gets. Between the two votes, colleagues, we will have the opportunity to make many changes, we can reconcile them. As for Mr. Popov, the texts you quoted from our Rules of Procedure are irrelevant to what is written in our proposal. I understand, but try to understand the meaning of this proposal, which it is, but not as we put it in. We really do not want to bring any other institution into this Law. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u119	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Second line, Mr. Toshev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, unfortunately, I am surprised, and I would ask my colleague Philip Popov to make me one, because I am not a lawyer, a distinction between a common law and a special law. And then, when the general law orders something and the special law builds, who's for execution? This one, first. Secondly, I would not accept giving us here advice on how to act from people who have not entered through a military portal through a unit portal. [[Applause.]] And the last one, I would ask my colleague Popov, from here to answer: how did she become popular and by whom was this line popularized about the sitter?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u121	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u122	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Very short line, Mr. Popov. You well quoted the Rules of Procedure, but let me give you an explanation that servicemen are not a state or municipal administration. Don't underestimate the status of the servicemen. Read the Defence and Armed Forces Act, the regulations, the Military Service Statute and so on, however, to get acquainted with their status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. Mr. Popov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u124	Thank you, Madam President! Regarding the first line, this is the National Assembly. Here we make laws, a law enforcement body is called and the Constitution is above all these laws. There is no such possibility in the Constitution that such a provision could be revoked in practice powers given under the Constitution of the President. To set up a committee to listen to generals and candidate generals and so on. Ridiculous, absolutely ridiculous! And we've already collected signatures, if this unconstitutional thing goes that way in today's parliamentary session, it goes to a Constitutional Court. Let the Constitutional Court rule. Therefore, in addition to being a political body, as a National Assembly in a parliamentary republic, we are also a legislative body in a rule of law, and we should respect the laws. Regarding the second line. Dear Mr. Toshev, legal advice is paid. I'm not going to talk to you about legal advice here from this tribune. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The Constitution, again, is the basic law in one country. And the difference between a special and a general law is in the lectures on law for I course. Open up, read to see what the difference is and whether there is a difference. Regarding the other lines, there is nothing simply to comment on, because they are absolutely outside the topic, outside the debate and political, and legal logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Any other speeches? I don't see any speeches. We're closing the debate. Please, the Quaestors, invite your colleagues to the Chamber. Let's move on to the vote. First, we are voting on the Draft Law of the Council of Ministers "The Law amending the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 702-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u126	Vote 175 MPs: 173, no objection, abstention 2. The bill was passed in the first vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 754-01-30, submitted by Konstantin Popov and a group of MPs on 22 June 2017. Vote 175 MPs: 90 against 69 abstentions 16. The bill was passed in the first vote. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u127	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, I request a re-voting procedure. I also ask the MPs, before voting, to read their backs on the card they carry in their pocket all day long, what it says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u128	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Revoting procedure. Vote 179 MPs: 94, against 68, abstention 17. The bill was passed in the first vote. Here's a negative vote. You have the floor, dear Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted negative for three reasons. The first reason why I voted negatively is that you cannot depolitise the National Assembly. You can't do that because we are the top political body of Bulgaria and the decisions we make here, regardless of where and how, are political. That is why we share in government and opposition. That's why we're making policies. That's why we're different in front of the people in the election. So we cannot argue that when we make a decision by parliament, it is expert and not political. And when we talk about when, where and how hearings should be made, we should do them eventually, after a decree is taken, if we still come to this decision and not before the decree, because we do have interference in the work of Parliament and the President. The second thing I voted against was because of the status of the permanent secretary you are trying to change. Perhaps the reason for this thing is the already read order of 31 May 2017, in which the Minister of Defence allows himself not only to implement the Law, but to extend it with requirements that are not in the Law. Here you saw the criteria he asked for. They have nothing to do with the current law, which is a violation. Perhaps you are in reverse trying now, with the change of this Law, to legitimize his wrongdoing, which is absolutely unacceptable. That is why we have a special Defense and Armed Forces Act, which is special, which is why this secretary cannot be placed under the status of the civil servant. Otherwise, you're comparing it to an ordinary secretary-general who can do whatever he wants, and under the Civil Service Act, he can be released. For this reason, I voted against, and I cannot agree with such a demarcation of the most important person in office in the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Second negative vote, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against the bill because it introduces the requirements for a hearing by the Defence Committee to the National Assembly of Officers proposed for the award of senior officer titles before examining their candidacy by the Council of Ministers. The Bulgarian army is a strictly hierarchical system with a signed regulation for career development. I find it unacceptable to involve the National Assembly with a hearing. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, this is a targeted act that could undermine the authority of the senior officers, recognition of the powerlessness of the executive, an attempt to transfer responsibility from the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly and a first step in withdrawing powers. I call on you, with changes before the final adoption of the Law, to prevent the possibility of undermining the authority of the Bulgarian officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] . There is no third negative vote. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of our Rules and Art. 81, para. 1, which states that when one of the drafts relates to the introduction of requirements of European Union law or to a procedure initiated for non-compliance with obligations arising from European Union law, I propose that we vote on the bill submitted by the Council of Ministers, the Defence and Armed Forces Act, No 702-01-3, to vote on it at second reading, as we have a deadline to be adopted by 31 July this year in order not to go into criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u134	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. To this end, it needs to be examined, and that is after a vote from the Parliamentary Hall. The proposal is to allow for a second vote in plenary. Please vote. Moreover, no proposals were made on it, which will follow between first and second readings. They voted 144 MPs: 124, against 7, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Who's gonna introduce us to the Bill? You have the floor, Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u135	Report for second reading "The Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria." ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), supplied men shall have the right to leave a child in size and under the conditions of art. 164 of the Labor Code and the care of a sick child under art. 162, para. 1 of the Labour Code in case of death or serious illness of the mother, or when they take care of the child themselves, as well as of unpaid leave to raise a child up to the age of 8 under the conditions, according to the order and in the size according to art. 167a of the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u136	Are there any speeches? I won't. Give her the closing order.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u137	'Concluding provision'. ..................................................... The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u138	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Law amending the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with its § 1, Final provision and § 2 of the Commission Report, as presented to you by the parliamentary platform. They voted 137 MPs: for 136 against 1, no abstentions. The bill has also been passed in a second vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE ELECTRONIC MEDIA COUNCIL FOR THE YEAR 1 JANUARY 30 JUNE 2016 AND A REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE ELECTRONIC MEDIA COUNCIL FOR THE YEAR 1 JULY 31 DECEMBER 2016 There is a report from the Commission of Culture and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure please allow Mrs. Sofia Vladimirova to be President of the Council for Electronic Media.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u140	Please vote, honourable Members. Vote 127 MPs: 100, against 22, abstention 5. Invite Mrs. Sofia Vladimirova to the hall. Report of the Committee on Culture and Media. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u141	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! "COMMODITY" of the Committee on Culture and Media on a Report on the activities of the Electronic Media Council for the period 1 January 2016 " 30 June 2016, No 730-00-2, submitted by the Electronic Media Council on 1 June 2017, and Report on the activities of the Electronic Media Council for the period 1 July 2016 On 17 May 2017, the European Parliament and the Council adopted Decisions (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3], (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] and (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media held on 15 June 2017, the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 2016 was discussed. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The meeting was attended by representatives of the Council for Electronic Media: Sofia Vladimirova "President," Maria Stoyanova, Rosita Elenova, Betina Joteva The reports were presented by Mrs. Sofia Vladimirova. The Council for Electronic Media shall submit the reports to the National Assembly pursuant to art. 39, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television. In its reports, the Council for Electronic Media provides information on: the radio and television environment in Bulgaria; its supervision of the activities of media service providers; licensing and registration of radio and television programmes; legal activities and case-law; international, financial and administrative activity. In their activities, the members of the CEM are guided by the principles of: fellowship, publicity and transparency; independence in discussions and decision-making; cooperation with state authorities, media service providers and non-governmental organisations whose activity is in the field of media services or the protection of copyright and related rights. The Council takes into account the interests of society by protecting freedom of speech, pluralism of ideas, different views in radio and television programmes and the independence of media service providers. The main criterion in the supervisory activity of the regulator is the protection of the audience from violations of the Radio and Television Act in distributing programs to different suppliers. The monitoring of electronic media occupies most of the work of the CEM. In 2016, a total volume of monitoring of radio and television programmes of 27 378 hours was carried out. Mrs. Sofia Vladimirova highlighted the following important highlights during the reporting period: - selection of Director General of BNR; - a draft procedure for the selection of Director-General of BNR and BNT; - the supervision of radio and television broadcasting programmes and the examination of their content for compliance with legal provisions, current and lasting public interests and attitudes, respect for fundamental human rights, ethical standards, professional standards, programme and technological rules, competitiveness and freedom in market distribution; - access to the programs of people with auditory and visual impairment; - monitoring programs of public and commercial media service providers for the presence of: audio-visual content with a focus on violence; - increasing the accessibility of audiovisual media services; - protection of the children's audience against adverse content; - monitoring the sound level of advertisements and the volume of advertising spots; - Specialized monitoring during the election campaign for the election of President and Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria and the information and clarification campaign for a national referendum. During the discussion the MPs Diana Savateva, Boriana Georgieva and Nona Yotova asked questions to which representatives of the Council for Electronic Media answered. Following the discussion the Members of the National Assembly of the Committee on Culture and Media shall: - unanimously with 15 votes for the National Assembly to accept the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 2016. 30 June 2016, No 730-00-2, submitted by the Electronic Media Council on 1 June 2017; - unanimously with 15 votes for the National Assembly to accept the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 July 2016. On 17 May 2017, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2017/2226 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 31 December 2017 to 31 December 2016 in respect of the implementation of the mandate of the European Atomic Energy Community for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 in respect of the implementation of the mandate of the European Atomic Energy Community for the period from 1 January 2017 in respect of the implementation of the mandate of the European Atomic Energy This is, colleagues, the opinion of the Committee on Culture and Media.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u142	To present the draft solutions as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u143	Colleagues, I will present to you: Project! DECISION on the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 2016 30 June 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 39, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 2016 " 30 June 2016"
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u144	And the second draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u145	And the second draft decision, colleagues: Project! DECISION on the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 July 2016 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 39, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 July 2016. " 31 December 2016"
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u146	Thank you, dear Mrs. Milkova. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mrs. Yoncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Firstly, I would like to thank you for the so-made Report of the Council for Electronic Media. The Electronic Media Board is an independent body. He is called to defend the freedom of electronic media in Bulgaria, their independence, their objectivity, their extrapartisan nature. However, the Council for Electronic Media has lost its public legitimacy. This happened as a result of the fact that a person of the SEM, a person who is called to defend freedom of speech, called to defend freedom of speech, has become a hangman of freedom of speech. It's about the case of Betina Joteva. However, the problem is much bigger than the case Joteva. The Council for Electronic Media lost its legitimacy both among the journalistic guilds in Bulgaria and among the Bulgarian community. Three journalistic organizations issued declarations on this occasion. These are the Union of Bulgarian Journalists, the Association of European Journalists and the Union of Publishers in Bulgaria. Here's what the Union of Bulgarian Journalists says: The conduct of the member of the SEM Joteva is unacceptable and contrary to the fundamental principles of journalistic ethics and freedom of speech. The Union of Publishers: The threats expressed by a member of an independent regulator of media services are a form of institutional pressure. The Association of European Journalists makes a recommendation, ladies and gentlemen: it recommends the member of the CEM to reconsider whether he can continue to carry out his duties fully in the Council for Electronic Media. The drop of confidence in the Council for Electronic Media, its deprivation of its independent status through the case Joteva goes along with the collapse of media freedom in Bulgaria, honourable colleagues. According to two international organisations Bulgaria is at the bottom of the media freedom in Europe. "Fridham House" if 2005 defined the media in Bulgaria as free, today defines them as partially free and notes that the media environment in Bulgaria is deteriorating. Reporters without borders, who set Bulgaria 34th place in 2003 on freedom of the media, today ranked Bulgaria 119th place. And if the figures are not enough, I will quote the following qualification of media freedom in Bulgaria. Reporters without borders "Said: Media freedom, media atmosphere in Bulgaria is dominated by corruption. There is a secret communication between media, politicians and oligarchs. We love to talk very much about our Euro-Atlantic values, but the main European value is freedom of the media, honourable Members. Lack of position on the case Joteva means lack of position on the collapse of media freedom in Bulgaria. Moreover, the lack of position, the lack of attitude makes all of us accomplices. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Yoncheva. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] From the worship of freedom of speech, I let you speak, even though we are discussing the 2016 CEM Report, and the case I think is after that. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u149	That's right! That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u150	Please, let's focus, but I'm not gonna stop anyone talking about freedom of speech. [[(Applause and lines: Bravo! Bravo!]] Here you go, Mr. Simov. Is that a line or a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u151	A statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u152	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u153	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues, there is no way to separate the two issues from the report of the Council for Electronic Media and the affair Betina Joteva. This is the same in practice, as the affair Betina Joteva is the biggest moral crisis that the Council for Electronic Media is going through, and at this point it is absolutely unsuccessful and extremely incompetent. Let me remind you, I would like to quote it verbatim, as it is very important what Betina Joteva said to a journalist who asks a question and does not make another intrigue [[Read from your cell phone]] If you open your mouth to me one more time, you'll see what's going on. It's not the behavior of a regulator, it's the behavior of a commandant in a concentration camp. That's how you talk to concentration campers, but not journalists. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u154	Please, Mr. Simov, please, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u155	At the same time, the head of the Council for Electronic Media says the following: [[Read from your cell phone]] : The CEM is behind its commitment to stand behind freedom of speech, pluralism, and perhaps in this case Mrs. Joteva did not find the right tone and words to address colleagues. "It is not a tone, nor a word, it is a frank threat, it is a clear scourge for freedom of free speech, it is unacceptable behavior for a person sent to defend free speech. In this sense, Betina Joteva is the main topic to be discussed here. The other, the technical details of how the head of BNR was elected, how many hours a program was viewed may be the subject of some other discussion, but the political point here is that we have a regulator who behaved as a censor and who spent two days circling the TVs to explain to us how he was the victim of some higher hybrid attack, even raised before him as a living shield the deputy prime minister Ekaterina Zaharieva, to make that attack against her. This is unacceptable behavior and that is precisely why, when we talk that Bulgaria falls on the charts for freedom of speech, we should ask such as Mrs. Joteva, do they take account of their responsibility for this? Since Mrs. Joteva belongs to a generation of media people who very much like to talk about freedom of speech, they love to talk about moral standards...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u156	Mr. Simov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u157	...but the first chance they get, they start acting like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u158	The Joteva case is in 2016, so I'm asking a little chronology to get into the statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u159	It is, but this scandal is too up-to-date not to become the subject of the House.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u160	Bring in an offer on this case. Let's discuss the 2016 Report, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u161	Okay. To get this over with so they won't say I'm coming out of the tone of the discussion...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u162	It's a fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u163	...I will try to quote to you, colleagues, a line, an interesting statement by Bertolt Brecht, who in one play met two people and one said: "You know, I am an opponent of the newspapers. However, the other one replied: "I am a bigger opponent of the newspapers, I want other newspapers. " In this sense, we have to say: I do not want the SEM to disappear from the horizon, I want another Council for Electronic Media and especially Betina Joteva not to be in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u164	Thank you. [[(Voices from the BSP for Bulgaria Resign! All MPs from BSP for Bulgaria pick up printed photos of Betina Joteva, some of the photos with the inscription: Bethina, go!]] I'm asking for order in this Chamber, colleagues. [[(Voices from the BSP for Bulgaria Resign! Resignation!]] Is that me over there? [[Heckling]] All right, I'm asking for order in this room, fellow Members. That's why I asked, there's no such face here. A statement? You have a line, okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Simov! I'm like a man who defines me at a low intellectual level some of your colleagues [[Laughter and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because everyone else is at a low intellectual level except the professors you have in the group, but we have a correspondent member, [[Laughter at GERB]] I want to tell you that I'm following your publications, following what you're writing, but I can't say that it's an intellectual language or an intellectual language, I mean, today we're looking at a very serious Report and this show, which, with an unworthy script and even weaker actors, you've done...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u166	Please, no qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u167	...isn't happening in this room for the first time by you. We are neither a entertainment show nor a peep show, so please take this very seriously and take the private case that you are playing, remove from the serious theme of the SEM that we are looking at today. Otherwise, I'll lower my intellectual trust in you. Thank you. [[(Applause from GERB. ♪ ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u168	I'm asking for order in this room. Second line. "The People's Representative Toma Bikov." Please, colleagues, order in the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, distinguished representatives of circus art! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u170	Please, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u171	We saw the performance, we found out about it in advance, and we were looking forward to seeing it. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This report, I did not hear, first of all, a single word about the Report, which is on the agenda, if you want any discussion on the topic: Mrs. Betina Joteva, Mrs. Sofia Vladimirova, there are other members of the SEM, submit it in some way, you are already circling the TV stations, it is discussed. He discussed it, got an apology. What impressed me in Mr. Simov's statement finally said something very important. He said, "We're not against the CEM, we're against this CEM. We are against this personnel, in the part of the "Betina Joteva" and perhaps other people. We want our people to put in there. That's what you want. That's what you want. [[(Noise and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u172	Please, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u173	Let's be honest.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u174	That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u175	But you can't because you lost the election. If you had won them, on the other SEM you would have proposed, perhaps, your people, as you divide them into yours and ours. [[Noise.]] We're not as emotional as you are because the CEM is an independent regulator.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u176	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u177	We have no right as MPs to interfere in the work of the CEM. We can say here, in the context of this discussion, whether it was okay in 2016, whether the SEM did well or not. In 2016! You are talking about April 2017, May 2017. At least leave it for next year when we look at the next report. By raising signs, by damaging them, and by circuses on every subject, not just on this...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u178	Please, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u179	... we will not raise the authority of the SEM or the authority of the Bulgarian electronic media, because the SEM is responsible only for electronic media. I call on you to make a discussion really essentially, because what we are doing right now and what you have started and neither is a discussion...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u180	That boy's time is up. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u181	The weather, Mr. Bikov. The weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u182	...nor will it lead to anything good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u183	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. [[Applause.]] Is there a third line? Do you have a third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u184	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will not comment on an intellectual level, nor will I comment on Mrs Betina Joteva. The only thing I'm gonna read is something I came across.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u185	A line to Mr. Simov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u186	I've had it since 2016. It's related to the freedom of speech we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u187	It must have something to do with Mr. Simov and his statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u188	Yeah, yeah. I mean, from 35th place on freedom of speech in ten years, Bulgaria has gone to 113th it was last year, and now we know that it is 119 years old. This is a replica of what we have heard, and an assessment not of the report, but of the entire state of our media. I think there is nothing more to discuss this report in such a state of the media. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u189	Mr. Simov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Dukova, I would have felt personally offended if you had not taken a line of my opinion. No way! I was convinced that you would take, only that I have to tell you something: I very much wish with the same enthusiasm that with the same pathos you had reacted to what we observed from the behavior of the member of a regulator, because there is a shocking violation of what we call the freedom of expression. That deserved the real anger, that deserved the real attitude. Leave me alone! But I know one thing: I may have all kinds of sins as a journalist, and I have used every language, but I have never gone to tell a colleague: you will not write like that! I never went to tell a colleague: if you dare mention my name! And Mrs. Joteva did. Mr. Bikov, thank you for admitting that the SEM in this composition is dependent and politically engaged because that is exactly what you said. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We have never fought for any part-time composition of the SEM, it is important for us to have people professional in the SEM, it is important for us to have people who are sufficiently objective in the SEM. However, what objectivity can we expect from the media regulator who, in order to say who made the intrigue, begins to speak in words such as the communist and not to be some communist from. This woman has to vote for BNT's boss in just two months. That's why it's important! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u191	Thank you, Mr. Simov. To speak, the People's Representative Vejdi Rashidov. After him Velislava Krasteva, after her Pavel Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u192	Dear Mr. Chairman! Colleagues, there's a man in this room I have both love and respect and respect. This is Stefan Danailov. An exceptional artist, a legendary man! And I'm being honest when I say that. Stephane, tighten the script! The level of Bulgarian theatre is falling. Someone must be very worried about this fair. If you don't have the power for a cube and posters, order! Protesters have expensive posters. [[Applause from GERB.]] And they're better paid sometimes. Dear colleagues, I do not know what is going on with my fellow Members. We have a committee in which we sit for some time, and it is extremely quality, by intelligent people. We sit, try to make good decisions, and wisely, and wisely think about the problems of culture. I've also told my colleagues the culture and media are a little overparty. And we should not go too far into this area because it concerns some talented, extra-party passions people, people who enjoy the whole of Bulgaria, they become idolaters of the Bulgarian people in one way or another and are one of the most familiar, well-known talented Bulgarian people. That is why we should always take this issue a little seriously. Today I don't know what's wrong with you. Today I don't know what's wrong with you. I don't know what's wrong with you. I don't know what's wrong with you. I don't know why you're insulting some professionals or Parliament is a place of scandal between two women, two girls who have been fighting. [[Noise and lines.]] The Bulgarian Court is that institution that will resolve the dispute between two. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u193	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u194	You're not judges to condemn anyone to public death. How does the Bulgarian Parliament lynch this one or that one? Who gives you the right to judge someone? [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, we're debating the CEM report today. Secondly, don't play with freedom of speech! Who has the public limited freedom of speech, did the CEM restrict it, did the parliament restrict it, did the Committee of Culture limit freedom? You forget media have owners. Who restricts freedom so often you talk about freedom? Yes, it will be last, but the reason is radically different and it is not what you want to convince me. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u195	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u196	Me. Satisfied? What's a scared journalist? We all have to respect the state's salary because the taxpayer gives it to us. It doesn't fall from the sky. We have to be honest with the country that separates from not having someone. That's what I said. What are our media afraid of? They're scared of bad talking. Why are you threatening the CEM today? The only body that is professional. You're scaring him. Why are you insulting them? Why are you doing this? I don't understand. We're not the censorship. Self-limiting speech is the scarier scourge for the media themselves. The problem of the media is perhaps in the media themselves, colleagues! Give me those things. They're important. We need media. I have lived my whole life at the Club of Journalists, amongst some of the biggest Bulgarian journalists. My whole life with them I grew up, I grew up with them, I lived with them, I shared with them and a small part that remained alive, I still see them. Amazing high bars for me! Please, don't treat freedoms like that! Freedoms are not given by parliament, but by the owners. A lot of media are private, public media don't insult her, she's the only one trying to reflect something right for us. Let's solve the two girls' problems, the scandal, the insult, because the way it was said: someone told me that you told me. That's what I asked in the Council. Let's do serious things. Let's stop this. Someone told me. This way... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u197	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u198	Look, we're all victims. Please! It's always very easy to handle. Someone said this guy was... Is that fair? Well, do you want me to tell you that someone told me something about you? Is that fair? It's not fair! So, colleagues, thank you. The place is in court. Don't take the role of the court. The court will find out who is wrong, who is wrong, and only then, if there are reproaches for something, especially for the quality of the Bulgarian media or the public yes, colleagues, please, we will debate it! Mr. Chairman, so if there is no quality debate today and this is a political act, I will ask my colleagues to step out of this room, because that is enough! Stop it! When you have such an exceptional genius actor, stop playing bad theater, colleagues. We don't need this. That's why our trust is falling. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u199	Here you go, Mr. Simov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u200	Mr. Rashidov, with all due respect to you, this dispute that we are talking about here cannot be brought down to a woman said, another woman said. We've got a tape. There is a record of the words of Betina Joteva, who, asking her: "Is this a threat?" There's no abstract argument here about deciding on one scale or on the other. We have a specific threat to a journalist for one question. Everything else I accept your moral pathos for media and freedom, but here we have a recording, we have a real violation, and from here on out the conversation becomes meaningless. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u201	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Is it a line, Mr. Danailov, or a personal explanation? Okay, so you're here anyway, a line then. You have the floor, Professor. Danailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u202	I don't know if it's a personal explanation or what it is, but that I'm a good artist is clear, isn't it, Dukova? [[Applause.]] My question is this: I have always considered, I am convinced that against a woman you cannot speak at all, and harshly. That's true. I never said anything wrong about any woman who did the worst to me. Especially when she's a beautiful and spicy woman, even though she's been talking for years. But the fact that my colleagues in our group also have journalists. It's their right to react that way. Eyebrows, nobody asked me. I wasn't involved here. Even I was surprised by that. It's a separate question of how much I take it and how much I don't take it that way. But at least they had a nicer picture, nakeder, like that. They have the right to react that way. My question is this: dear colleagues, how would you react if you had responded to this, you know that there is a proposal from our previous years in the CEM - Ivo Atanasov? If Ivo had leaked to the Commission, you wouldn't say I'd make your mother cry? And he can say it. What would your behavior be now? You've got to be honest. You were gonna ruin us: dirty communists, bastards, etcetera. [[Noise and lines.]] Over there, the patriots are ready. I'm pretty sure that's how it's gonna be. Why is Joteva being reacted to in a one - way way way? I expected Joteva, as an intelligent woman, to have freed us from this engagement by leaving the CEM long ago. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And from now on, each of us, when it comes time to choose, let's keep in mind basically what's behind the person, is it just the figure or is there anything else? Mr. Rashidov, the other one will direct you and I something more interesting. Thank you for your attention, excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u203	Thank you, dear Professor. Danailov. [[Lowered applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The third line is the People's Representative Jayhan Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u204	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Rashidov, you very rightly said from the stand that when there is a dispute between two, independent man, woman, woman and so on, it must be decided otherwise. It is extremely dangerous when one person is empowered and allows himself to use rough lines against another colleague. This is unacceptable, this is a moral act. And I'm setting an example right now with you: there was a case like this last year. I won't go into details, but you had the valor of the next day to apologize. Bulgarian society is waiting for this particular act. And the fact that the CEM, this independent body, is not functioning properly, is another topic. We're discussing the report today. Naturally, as each Report are spoken words, very nice, high-pitched and so forth. [[Relations from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] Mrs. Dukova!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u205	Please don't call from the gym! Mr. Ibryamov, do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u206	I can give dozens of examples not only about the language of hate and freedom of speech, but now about the act of hatred that the CEM needs to self-sess. This is the problem in Bulgaria, not something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u207	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u208	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Simov, I don't want to contradict you or say you don't have the right to an opinion. That's not what this is about. Her sentence I know how it ended: You don't realize... I don't know what else you didn't say. I'll give you an example: imagine that she wanted to say that she would sue or kiss her. Another question is whether the person will come out to apologize. When a wrong person is wrong, a very great dignity should apologize, more macho. It's easy to make trouble, it's easy to grieve people, I've done it. It's hard to apologize if you find out you're wrong. It's a moral choice to do it. I rather wanted to give you an example. We shouldn't be judgmental. I wanted to avoid this thing, be judges here, lynch a guy. You know, for a cream of 40 leva. A man's life can be ruined if there is a campaign, for one man nothing can be defiled. I could give you many examples. That's not what this is about. One day, when I was a free artist, so more free, now I'm a little relieved of the ministerial post, so I threw in a sentence: "There in this union I will not say who will not be offended that is my favorite people with a very soft character. Ten people called me to tell me I was insulting them. Self-determination is democracy, everyone chooses where to be recognized. Today I ask you: do not recognize yourself in this insult! So I say, if there is an insult between two ladies somewhere, I don't mean anyone, everyone has the right to defend themselves or to prove the truth. Once he proves it, we can discuss it. But here you went to analyze the entire activity of a Regulator. It's not fair. A lot of people work at the CEM, people we need to have a little respect for. If I have to talk to you about freedom of speech, you're gonna be sick. For eight years, we've been living in freedom. Guys, he's got owners! [[Noise and lines.]] It's not like that. We must fight for the rules in this Parliament and for the laws that must give the chance to speak freely and unfreely, and to protect the subject of the speech. Like it's all over the world. Not to give you examples of Murdock's most published magazines! Guys, here we have to solve the more important problems: how are we going to live from here? Sometimes the word "freedom" threatens the freedom of other people, so let's leave this freedom in the hands of the CEM as an organ. Let them pronounce, if we are not satisfied, from here we will decide the work of the CEM, but the work of the CEM, not the attitude of two ladies. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's, uh, let's let them get along in court and we can discuss the more important things. More important things are: media laws, culture laws. Otherwise, we turn it into something we can't benefit from either of you or anyone else.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u209	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. [[Applause from GERB.]] To speak, the people representative Velislava Krasteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u210	Mr President, colleagues, I will begin with a clarification: we have read the reports, as it has been heard from the House such a question. We've read them very carefully, Mrs. Dukova, to your attention!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u211	Please, Mrs. Krasteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u212	We've read the CEM reports, discussed the CEM reports. This applies to the entire parliamentary group. I would like to be reminded by colleagues that today we are looking at the CEM's reports under the 2016 Act to return the debate or at least turn the debate to another very important aspect. I would like to focus on how the Regulator's work relates to one of the most dangerous phenomena of our time and modern democracy. In particular, of course, the way democracy operates in Bulgaria. And this is the language of hate. Although it is written in the reports that the language of hatred in electronic media remains one of the main priorities in the activities of the SEM and again there: that besides constant monitoring of the content of broadcast radio and television programmes on compliance with the provisions against hostile speech, it is said that a thematic observation on the coverage of the gay parade held on June 18th is carried out. Notice, this is about the gay parade from last year, although my comment that this same analysis could have been used with the same force to account for the Regulator's surveillance of the gay parade this year. With the exception of one person, all participants in one other case are the same, the topics are the same, the way they are spoken is the same, and the most curious thing is that the regulator reports that there is no drastic violation of the norms. I mean, everything is normal, regardless of the attention to hate language. In these same reports, I have found a few more examples that I would like to draw your attention to. In its monitoring of the coverage of the hunt for immigrants at the border, the regulator has reported media content showing, in a humiliating position, those detained by volunteer squads, who are detained by volunteer squads, and recalling their declaration giving instructions to the electronic media and operators not to allow content that exonerates cruelty, and that they monitor children's rights. Since this paragraph hardly tells you anything, I would remind you that these particular reports have put the figure, not on the agenda, put on the screen one, to put it mildly, controversial figure, that of Dinco from Yambol, but the regulator has remained deaf and blind to the hate language used by this subject, translated by these same media. And one more thing. On the occasion of the riot at the Harmanli Refugee Centre, which the SEM has self-serving and carried out so-called "expressive surveillance" related to the monitoring of crisis events, it has found that, after initial nervousness, the media have mastered this emotion and, note that no hate speech has been used, again, although even the presence of the aforementioned character, whose name I will not repeat again suggests that he may have appeared in the television lens to call for world peace, at least I do not recall such a thing. Dear colleagues, back in ancient Rome, they have said that from a court, what was poured into it is leaking. And it is. We cannot expect more from the regulator than it can, provided that in all its documents it is insured with insufficient legal opportunity to do so, for example, regulate the dissemination of programmes directly involved with political entities. The insurance is to some extent correct, but thus the regulator surrounds an interesting circumstance that two of the televisions, which are the officials of hate speech, are directly owned by representatives of the ruling coalition today, but even this is not the focus of my speech. In the report, we read the definition of the Council of Europe for hostile speech. And if you are no longer extremely tired of the long day and are not too hungry and are in a hurry to leave for lunch, I will ask you to listen to this definition of the Council of Europe, because believe me, it matters: Some forms of expression that spread, instigate, inspire or justify racial hatred, xenophobia, anti-Semitism or other forms of hatred based on intolerance, including intolerance, expressed through aggressive nationalism, ethnocentrism, discrimination and hostility against minorities, migrants and immigrants. Dear colleagues of the CEM, your report claims that the problem with hostile speech as a whole does not exist. It is not clear whether this applies exclusively and only to monitoring the coverage of the gay parade or at all and in the case of leish reading, honourable Members, the definition of the Council of Europe is clear that if the recommendations are applied, even the meetings of the National Assembly should be broadcast without sound, because the language of hatred has become an official language in both the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian authorities, and hence in the Bulgarian media. Dear colleagues of GERB, I do not expect from you miracles of heroism, all the more so that one of the main speakers in hate speech said here yesterday, from this tribune, that he does not care who votes how he will vote, that he does not care whether we vote for a vote for a voice, abstention or abstention, but we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and Freedoms will remind you every day that we are here at the will of our constituents, in fulfilling our commitments to our voters, even though these same voters do not interest you. We will be alerting each day that by becoming the official language of hatred, you are instilling hatred and intolerance throughout society. [[Noise and lines on the right.]] Our constituents follow with worry every day these same media, which are so rigorously analyzed in this Report, and by the behaviour and words of the authorized nationalists, radicalists and populists, our voters, express an ambiguity how it is possible in democratic Bulgaria, in European Bulgaria, to bring justice from the screen through a language of hatred and not from the courtroom where it belongs. And it is your responsibility, colleagues from GERB, that the language of hatred became official in European Bulgaria. Yes, it probably doesn't matter to your government the opposition vote or the vote of the voters who sent us here, but I will remind you that it is the official language of hatred in all its forms that destroys statehood, undermines the foundations of the democratic state and ultimately, and I will end it, sooner or later, it will work a law that proclaims that which hate language takes out, from a language of hatred goes away. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u213	Thank you, dear Mrs. Krasteva. [[Noise, lines, calls.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u214	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Krasteva! In fact, listening to your speech on hate speech, I thought that a link between everything we said today in this room actually exists, and that is precisely the language of hatred that has become the main goal and fashion here.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u215	Mr. Simov, a line, not an agreement with the speaker. Not consent!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u216	Yeah, a line. I'll tell you! That's why I want to ask you, and dissent to some extent only one thing. You said this is where the government put this hate language. The point is, though, that all the other parasitic regulatory authorities, aren't they also the ones that help enforce this language? Don't they also make this language a norm, and not only a norm, but today to speak three times creepier, to adopt some words that no one would have used until just a few years ago?! That's the big question, that's my line to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u217	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Here you go for a second line. If you don't disagree, I'll take your word for it! [[Noise, lines and calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I have to follow the rules, agree! What do I do?! [[Relations and calls from the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u218	Dear Mr. Rashidov, I would like to...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u219	Mr. Rashidov didn't speak now, but Mrs. Krasteva did. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u220	Oh, yes, Mrs. Krasteva. Dear Mrs. Krasteva, I would like to disagree with your finding. I believe that the language of hatred is extremely active, extremely aggressive in the Bulgarian media, much more than you have found it. That's my disagreement with you. And one more thing I would like to share with the Council for Electronic Media we do not see it in all the speeches we have had here recently. We simply find that the Council for Electronic Media no longer has this public legitimacy because it is compromised as a result of the speeches of one of its members, which threatens freedom of speech. We respect the members of the CEM, we respect all the efforts they make, but its work is compromised, that is what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u221	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yoncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u222	And one more thing, as far as circus is concerned, I just want to say...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u223	Mrs. Yoncheva, circus is not spoken of by Mrs. Krasteva. I take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u224	Hello, circus guys! He's got his own author... [[National Representative Elena Yoncheva continues to speak to off microphones. Replies and calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u225	Third line? [[Loud noise and screams from the left.]] Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. [[Strong noises, calls, MPs from BSP for Bulgaria are becoming right.]] Take your seats! Third line! Can't you count? Third line! I'm sorry, it's arithmetic! Third line! [[(Replies from the place of the National Representative Dragomir Stoynev: Why did you take her word for it? Why did you turn off the microphones? Why?]] Third line, Mr. Stoinev. [[Replys and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. [[Calling of the MP Dragomir Stoynev from the place: who was the first one to say "cirquetage"?............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There will be loud noises and calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! [[Noise, lines, calls from the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u227	Mr. Stoinev, I'm making a note of your behavior in this room! I'm warning you, I'm going to remove you from this room! [[(Shouts: "Oooh! "), loud noise from the BSP for Bulgaria, MPs from the parliamentary group became right.)]] I'm removing Mr. Stoinev from the disarray room! [[(Applause from GERB and OP. Part of the MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]] You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u228	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I do not agree at all with the views and opinions expressed by the previous speaker, which is why I strongly object! I also strongly object in the manner of conduct, but I am making a procedural proposal to increase the time of plenary until its closure by voting! [[(Very loud noise, shouts, lines from BSP for Bulgaria....................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u229	Here you are, Mrs. Krasteva. Here you are, Mrs. Krasteva, for the back. Please, colleagues from the BSP group, either take your seats or leave the room!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u230	Mr. Chairman, please bring order to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u231	Wait, Mrs. Krasteva. Either take your seats, or the Quaestors, help the gentlemen from the BSP for Bulgaria to leave the hall. [[Noise and lines. People's representatives from BSP for Bulgaria are standing right next to the door of the Chamber.]] Take your seats if you will participate in the plenary session. Otherwise, leave the room! Please, Mrs. Krasteva, I'm waiting. I'm sorry! I'm sorry. They're having second thoughts about the coworkers. Let's wait for them. [[Radio, noise and lines.]] Mr. Kasabov, please take your place. [[Noise. Replices and calls from GERB: "To-see-yes-no!" and "It was a theater, now it is a circus! "]] Whoever will take part in the meeting, take their place. [[Heckling]] In the manner of conduct, after the procedure has been completed. I'm sorry to have to explain this to you, too, except you have to take your seats. The next person to be removed from the hearing is the one who won't take his place! Thank you. Sorry, Mrs. Krasteva. Here you go. You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Hopefully we won't go through all the forms of performing arts...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u233	And I was hoping from the beginning.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u234	Excuse me, Mrs. Yoncheva. First of all, Mr. Kirilov, my name is Velislava Krasteva. Although the upbringing in speaking from this tribune is not the first priority of both your group and your partners,...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u235	Please, Mrs. Krasteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u236	...I'd be grateful if you'd address yourself by name when you speak. Secondly, I did not expect you to agree with my assessment with regard to the CEM Report, because one of your consent would mean that I have not done my job Mrs. Yoncheva, the limited time and difficulties in keeping the attention of the MPs put my exhibition in a chunky place. In fact, this report does establish the non-obstruction of rules to limit hate language. As to whether specific examples of course should be used, but this is a function and task assigned to the regulator. I would only come back to the conclusion that if the norm was respected, if there was a full restriction on broadcasting messages containing hostile speech or hate speech, then these meetings at least had to be transmitted without sound to protect viewers from the warring language of hatred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u237	Thank you, dear Mrs. Krasteva. There are procedures to be followed in the manner of conduct. First please, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u238	Dear Mr. Glauchev, dear colleagues! I'm protesting the way you're leading this meeting, and I'm gonna be motivated by why. When you allow qualifications to be made from this tribune for the intellectual, cultural, value level of colleagues who express themselves in a certain way, without insulting anyone, you restrict their right to free expression. No member of the National Assembly has been offended in the way that colleagues express themselves. Secondly, I protest in the manner of conduct, because when we begin to discuss essentially, meaningfully, with arguments, certain issues that are obviously not your opinion for some reason, you thus replace the discussion in the manner of conduct that it turns into an acute political and rude conflict, which ruins the content of the discussion. And thirdly, you allowed yourself in the manner of conduct and yesterday from this tribune to sound qualifications, suggestions, reading reports of services before 1989 that an ethnic group in Bulgaria carried out exactly...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u239	That's what you were supposed to tell me yesterday. We're talking about today's leadership. [[GERB's line.]] Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u240	Posters are a way of free expression without insulting anyone. That is why I am protesting in the manner of your conduct with regard to replacing the content of the matter and limiting the rights of the Members of the National Assembly for their expression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u241	Another protester? Here you go. Mr. Rashidov will then also protest.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u242	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Glauchev, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because you have allowed a fellow Member of the National Assembly - perhaps I understand why, from the ruling coalition to make a reply and at the same time to ask for a procedure! This is a circumvention of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u243	And how do you know that this procedure will be allowed to protest in advance?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u244	You let him say that and you didn't interrupt him. A month ago, we were looking at your resignation, and it wasn't accepted. Don't make the MPs want your resignation again!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u245	That's your right.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u246	You are the first among equals and be the same, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u247	That's your right, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u248	With respect to you, do not allow any violation of the Rules of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u249	Just to clarify that I have not allowed any violation of the Rules of Procedure, as no procedure has been voted on yet. Are there other procedures in the manner of conduct, personal explanations? Mr. Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u250	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I'm sorry this is a little like a school chair I'm going to eat today, I'm not going to eat tomorrow. As they say, I'm not working for BSP, sorry. Everyone's at work. This is a very important issue here. We have invited the Chairman of the CEM. At least we have to have respect for the lady who's here today listening to all this. We're used to society laughing at us, we're used to dropping our ratings all we want. My personal explanation is on another occasion. I agree with a lot of things Mrs. Krasteva said, but another is the topic. For the freedom of speech and for the laws on the media, the laws in general are another topic. There's only one topic today. I don't know why some should be like children. Because we constantly want to put the sheep in the fold that's for cows. Bettina Joteva, Bettina Joteva! Two girls will go when they have a fight in court. There shouldn't be a court here. How many people today, before they got up here, did they really debate the CEM report? Isn't it important?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u251	Just Mrs. Krasteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u252	Yes, she said some true things that I quite agree with about the language of hate especially, which flows not from the freedom of speech, but from the looseness of speech. But that's another topic, colleagues. I can talk. I will give you a small example when I was happy as a baby, because this will not happen again in the Bulgarian culture to see the Louvre, let alone Ufici. Don't worry, personal contact was a win-win bet. Never exposes the Louvre to other people's art, only their own, visiting single valuable things. Bulgaria with two thousand things visited the Louvre.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u253	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u254	I'm just graduating, Mr. Chairman. Today you're leading beautifully, last time you just didn't notice me, so I had lines for you. [[Radio, laughter and applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u255	It happens. I'm sorry. You apologized to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u256	You see me more and more and you rise high in my eyes. [[Applause.]] Just two words, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Chairman, it's nice as an example. If we respect ourselves, if we want the world to have respect, our society too, let Parliament become a workshop of serious ideas. It's all very shallow. Never leave the hall just because you wish to talk about Betina Joteva. You're gonna call her somewhere and you're gonna talk to her. We need to talk about the CEM today. Thank you. [[Radio and applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u257	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. This was an explanation by the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov of what he was personally affected by. Please come in for a personal explanation, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u258	I didn't mention it in person.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u259	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ibryamov, I can't help but mention me personally after you've individually identified me in a single way. Please apply the Rules strictly. You've offended me for breaking the rules. In fact, regarding my request for a procedure, the Rules were violated because, while Mrs. Velislava Krasteva spoke, I requested a procedure. It is clear that this request for a procedure is to provide time to complete the normal debate. The normal debate, colleagues! If someone were honest with the debate, they would have more sense and content to consider my reply and my request for a procedure. I demand to vote on my proposal for a procedure. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u260	Thank you. (Request for a personal explanation.) Well, a personal explanation of a personal explanation, come on! [[Heckling]] Otherwise, a request for a procedure shall be given immediately, unless there are any stated lines. There's no way this could happen at the time of the speech. Are there any other statements? There are no other speeches. In the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u261	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I absolutely want to oppose the way my colleague Stoinev was expelled from the Chamber. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u262	It has an appeal order, Mr. Mareshki, which...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u263	After all, we're not in a schoolroom and you're not our teacher.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u264	Of course, that's why there are rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u265	I therefore ask you, in a subsequent case, even if the Rules and a colleague of ours are formally respected, to deserve to be removed from this House, that this be done more politely. Ask him, Mr. Stoynev, would you...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u266	I asked him three times. Were you in the hall, Mr. Mareshki?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u267	I've been very rude to you: I'm kicking you out, shoo, march and so on. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u268	I take it you weren't, you weren't in the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u269	My request is next time an MP...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u270	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u271	...who deserves such a thing, ask him to leave the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u272	Of course. [[Loud noise and lines.]] The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u273	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! I just want to remind you that the time at the moment is 14.14. The working time of parliament in normal, without asking for an extension of working hours and voting on one within the working time until 14.00, is 14.00. Please follow the rules. Abort the meeting now, because we're already 15 minutes out of the way, unless, of course, there are lines, duplicates, as you said, to complete things.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u274	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u275	You, after the lines and the dots, instead of interrupting the session, started giving the floor in procedures...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u276	You wouldn't be able to speak, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u277	No, I wouldn't be able to speak, and I didn't intend to speak. I wasn't going to speak because you would have followed the rules and I wouldn't have made a comment. So please, please, cancel the meeting and schedule for tomorrow when it is due and in the way it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u278	Thank you. Any other speeches? I won't. We close the meeting and set tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. vote on a debate report. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u279	What about parliamentary control?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-06.u280	Parliamentary control will see it on the site, but I will read it to you now: 1. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will answer a question from the MP Petar Vitanov and a question from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova. 2. Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will answer one question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer three questions from the MPs Slavcho Velkov; Spas Panchev; and Nikolai Tsonkov. 4. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer three questions from the MPs Miglena Alexandrova; Christian Vigenin and Nikolai Boshkov; and Ivo Hristov. 5. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer 24 questions from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev; Anton Kutev and Stoyan Mirchev; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Manol Genov; Krasimir Bogdanov; Nikolay Ivanov and Ivan Genov 6. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer two questions from the MPs Veska Nencheva; and Ivelina Vassileva, Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva. 7. The Minister of Culture Boyl Banov will answer two questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova; and Georgi Yordanov. 8. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov will answer 12 questions from the MPs Veselin Mareshki; Krastina Taskova, two questions; Ivelina Vassileva; Stefan Burgev, two questions; Dimitar Danchev; Dimitar Danchev and Rumen Georgiev; Nadia Zhekova and Kristina Sidorova; Spas Panchev; Stoyan Mirchev and Svetla Bachvarova two questions. 9. Economy Minister Emil Karanikolov will answer one question from the MP Gergana Stefanova. 10. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will answer a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev. 11. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer six questions from the MPs Ivelina Vasileva two questions; Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov; Dora Yankova; Atanas Kostadinov; and Adrian Raykov and Radostin Tanev. 12. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer two questions from the MPs Krasimir Bogdanov; and Georgi Turnovalyski. 13. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the MPs Vesela Lecheva and Ivan Chenchev. 14. The Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov will answer three questions from the MPs Miglena Alexandrova; Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov; and Ivo Hristov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to a question by the MPs Vasil Antonov, Stefan Burgeev and Chavdar Velinov; and to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev; - the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev, four questions from the MPs Galya Zaharieva and Snezhana Dukova; Donka Simeonova; Stoyan Mirchev; and Nina Mitkova; and two questions from the MPs Anelia Klisarova, Ivo Hristov, Nikolay Tsonkov and Stoyan Mirchev; and Halil Letifov, Errol Mehmed, Sergei Kichikov and Ishan Halil; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov to six questions from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Hristo Prodanov; Stefan Apostolov, Daniela Saveklieva, Georgi Dinev, Alexander Matsurev and Dimitar Gamishev, two questions; Krasimir Sabev and Borislav Borisov; Julian Papasimov and Rumen Genov; and Valentina Naydenova, and one question from the MPs Ilian Timchev, Georgi Yordanov and Valentina Naydenova. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Irena Anastasova to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev; - two questions from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov; and to the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov; - two questions from the MP Vladislav Nikolov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will not participate. Due to the country's absence in the parliamentary control session, Justice Minister Tsetska Tsacheva, Interior Minister Valentin Radev and Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 Lilyana Pavlova will not participate. Due to the running out of time for today's plenary session, I am closing it. Tomorrow we continue at 9:00 with our agenda. [[PHONE RINGING]]
