ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, allow me to present to you a draft work programme of the National Assembly for the period from 26 to 28 July 2017, including: 1. Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. We have resigned from the National Representative Zhivko Martinov on 25 July 2017. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Development Bank Act. It was agreed by the Chairman's Council that this point should be second. That's the difference between the program you have on your mailboxes. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 13 July 2017. 3. First vote on the State Aid Bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2017. The last session, the last one, is a sequel to our previous meeting last week. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code. They are: MPs Diana Yordanova, Pavel Shopov, Svetlana Angelova, Dragomir Stoinev, Krum Zarkov, Dora Hristova, Albena Naydenova, Hasan Ademov, Alexander Sabanov and Elhan Kulkov, on July 6, 2017. 5. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. A joint project drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the bills adopted at the first vote on 30 June 2017. Importers: National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, as of 1 June 2017; and the Council of Ministers of 13 June 2017. 6. Election of a Vice-President in charge of the management of the investment activity and Vice-President in charge of the management of the Financial Supervision Commission. The selection procedure is in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 28 June 2017. We propose that this be the first item for Thursday, 27 July 2017. 7. Choice of Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. The selection procedure is in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 6 July 2017. We propose that this be the first point for Friday, 28 July 2017. 8. Election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. The selection procedure is in accordance with rules adopted by a decision of the National Assembly of 12 July 2017. This is proposed to be point two for Friday, 28 July 2017. 9. Draft decision on the adoption of the Calendar of the Parliamentary Dimension of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, 1 January - 30 June 2018. Importers are: MPs Jemma Grozdanova and Christian Vigenin on 24 July 2017. It is proposed to be item 3 for Friday, 28 July 2017. 10. Draft Decision on the extension of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances in the expenditure of funds allocated to the NDK for preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and draft decision on the report. They are: the People's Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, on 25 July 2017, as well as the Report of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances in the expenditure of funds allocated to the National Palace of Culture for preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the draft decision on the report. Importer is the Temporary Commission on 25 July 2017. 11. Parliamentary control. Please vote. Vote 184 MPs: 140 against 1, abstention 43. The work programme for the period 26 July 2017 has been adopted. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal to the already adopted programme. 10 of the agenda, which is a Draft for the extension of the Interim Commission for the National Palace of Culture and the adoption of the Temporary Commission Report, is to become a point of order. 5, before we start working on the Bill for amendment and supplement of the Code of Criminal Procedure. We have a very ambitious programme this week, and I would like to make sure that we finish looking at the point for the Temporary Commission for the National Palace of Culture and adopting its report, as the deadline expires on 29 July 2017, which was given for its work by a Parliament decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u3	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote on the proposal. Vote 191 MPs: 86 against 16, abstention 89. The offer is not accepted. Only for comfort, as well as for the Presidential Council was the issue, absolutely all the groups are intent on implementing the Programme. Moreover, other Bills will be included as long as plenary accepts them, of course, with extended working hours. But be assured that the program that is at your attention will be implemented. Bills and draft decisions of 19 July 2017: On 19 July 2017, a Draft Law for Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions was adopted. Importer is the national representative Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Health and Internal Security and Public Order. On 20 July 2017, a Law on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Morocco was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as to the Committee on Foreign Policy. On 20 July 2017, a Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2016 was received. 20 July 2017. Importer is the Commission for the Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. On 21 July 2017, a bill for the protection of over-debtion of individuals was adopted. Importer is the People's Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to a leading and sole Committee on Legal Affairs. On 24 July 2017, a draft decision of the Forty-fourth National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria was received for the adoption of the Calendar of the Parliamentary Dimension of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the period 1 January. The representatives of the National Assembly are Jemma Grozdanova and Christian Vigenin. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy as well as to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 25 July 2017, a draft declaration on the signing of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia was received. The representatives of the National Assembly are Jemma Grozdanova, Konstantin Popov and Hristo Gazhev. On 25 July 2017, a draft decision on the extension of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances in the expenditure of funds allocated to the NDK for preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union was received. Importers: the national representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch and use of a helicopter and crew of military personnel from the Air Force to carry out special flights for flying and fire extinguishing from the air to the territory of the Republic of Montenegro from 19 July 2017 until the task has been completed. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 21 July 2017, i.e. No 703-09-25, and granted to the Defence Committee. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, informs the National Assembly that the Council of Ministers has adopted Decision No 408 of 21 July 2017 amending Decision No 970 of the Council of Ministers of 2016 on the authorisation and the dispatch and use of soldiers from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria for participation in NATO operations in Kosovo. In accordance with the provisions of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria the decision was also notified to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. The notification was received on 21 July 2017, i.e. No 702-00-29, and granted to the Defence Committee. We're moving on to work on the program we've accepted. The first point is: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. To the Chairman of the Forty-fourth National Assembly Dimitar Glauchev, an application from Zhivko Ivanov Martinov, MP from the Eighth Election Region: Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, I resign as MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I wish to terminate my credentials as a Member of the National Assembly with a decision of the National Assembly. Signature: Zhivko Martinov. I propose to you in this regard the following official Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts the authority of Zhivko Ivanov Martinov as MP from the Eighth Election Region. You have the floor to speak. I won't. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the project I just presented to you. Please vote. Vote 180 MPs: 170, against 3, abstention 7. The draft decision has been adopted. The next item on the agenda is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE BULGARIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. It will be introduced to you by the People's Representative and Chairman of the Commission Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u4	♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Development Bank Act No 702-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 July 2017. At a meeting held on 20 July 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the bill mentioned. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov, who presented the bill. The Bulgarian Development Bank is a commercial bank in which the rights of the state in the capital of the bank are exercised by the Minister of Finance. Among the bank's main objectives are improving, stimulating and developing the overall economic, export and technological potential of small and medium-sized enterprises by facilitating their access to finance and attracting and managing the medium- and long-term local and foreign resources needed to realise the country's economic development. The mission of the Bulgarian Development Bank is to be a key tool for conducting state policies in the economy. It interacts intensively with all other state structures in order to ensure the maximum impact of the directed public funds in support of the development of the economy. One of the main powers of the Minister of Economy is to direct, coordinate and control the implementation of the state policy to promote small and medium-sized enterprises through the creation and development of competitive small and medium-sized enterprises, taking into account the need to achieve a balanced socio-economic development of the individual regions of the country. In view of the objectives and activities for which the Bulgarian Development Bank was established and the competences of the Minister of Economy, it is proposed that the Minister of Economy be designated as a body exercising the rights of the state in the capital of the Bulgarian Development Bank. In this way, coordination and efficiency in defining and implementing state policies will be improved in support of small and medium-sized enterprises and increasing the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy as a whole. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:......................... 20 MPs........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Bulgarian Development Bank Act, No 702-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will present Mr. Kanev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u6	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Development Bank Act No 702-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 July 2017. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 19 July 2017 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Development Bank Act, No 702-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 July 2017. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Economy - Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister, Diana Dragneva, Director of the Department of Legal and Galin Zhelev, State Expert at the Directorate of State Aids and Real Sector; by the Ministry of Economy: Lachezar Borisov Deputy Minister, and Valentin Gruev, Director of the Directorate of Industrial Relations and Management of State Participation. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Marinela Petrova. The priority activities of the Bulgarian Development Bank are in line with the government's policy regarding small and medium-sized enterprises. One of the main powers of the Minister of Economy is to direct, coordinate and control the implementation of the state policy for the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, the Bulgarian Development Bank is a key tool for conducting state policies in the economy. In this regard, in view of the objectives and activities for which the Bulgarian Development Bank was established and the competences of the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Economy is proposed to exercise the rights of the State in the General Assembly of the shareholders of the Bank. The other proposed changes are in line with the above. A partial preliminary impact assessment has been applied to the bill, noting that the draft law does not in principle offer new legislation, but only a change of existing law concerning only a change of the authority exercising the rights of the state in the General Assembly of the shareholders of the Bulgarian Development Bank. No possible specific risks have been identified from the adoption of the Law, including the occurrence of litigation. The adoption of the bill does not stem from European Union law. The questions asked by the MP Rumen Gechev, Dimitar Boychev and Zhelyo Boychev answered Deputy Minister Borisov. After a vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Development Bank Act, No 702-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 July 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Will there be an importer's opinion? No. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Development Bank Act. They voted 163 MPs: 163, no opposition and no abstentions. The Law on Amendment and Supplement of the Bulgarian Development Bank was adopted in the first vote. Mrs. Stoyanova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u8	Thank you, Madam President. I request a procedure on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to adopt the bill of second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u9	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 160 MPs: 158, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u10	Project! LAW amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Development Bank Act ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 4 the words "the Minister of Finance" and § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 2 and para. 3 the words "the financials' shall be replaced by "the economy'. § 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 3 after the word "Consult" is added "The Minister of Economy."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u11	I shall put the name to the vote together with paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, supported by the Commission. Vote 155 MPs: for 155, against and abstention there is no. The Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Development Bank Act was adopted at second reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR STATE AID, PROCEEDING. We shall continue with the report on the first vote of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you go, Mrs. Fikirli.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u12	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'll give your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State aid bill, No 702-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2017. At its meeting held on 19 July 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the State Aid Bill, No 702-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2017. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance Mrs. Lydia Ateva, Head of Department of Metodology, Monitoring and Coordination of State Aids. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs Ateva. It pointed out that the draft new State aid law establishes a new mechanism for the recovery of unlawful and incompatible State aid, as well as for the recovery of undue State aid. Mrs. Ateva focused on the basic principles that must be observed in the granting of State aid and the extension of the powers of the Minister of Finance to issue methodological instructions and to take measures to develop and improve the regime and ensure transparency. The bill defines the notions of the aid administrator and the aid beneficiary and precises the responsibilities of the State and minimal aid providing. An essential novelty in the Bill is the introduction of the obligation to establish the amount and beneficiaries of unlawful and incompatible State aid by the administrator in cases where they are not pre-defined by a decision of the European Commission. Mrs. Ateva pointed out that a new key element in the bill is the creation of a legal opportunity to challenge the acts for granting State aid or minimum aid, as well as actions for violations of national and European law in relation to the granting of State or minimal aid. The Bill changes control of the implementation of the State Aid Act, which will be carried out by the State Financial Inspection Agency. The Agency for State Financial Inspection will issue acts establishing administrative infringements and criminal decrees under its mandates. The administrative penalty provisions shall also be revised by making changes in the amount of fines and penalty payments. In the discussion of the bill took part the MPs Christian Mitev, Danail Kirilov and Pencho Milkov, who said they would support the bill of first voting. Mr. Milkov pointed out that regarding the proposed bill there are a number of comments, which is why he will make specific proposals between the first and second votes. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 17 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 702-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2017, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a State Aid Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Fikirliyska. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism follows. Mr. Kanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u14	♪ I can't believe under State aid bill No 702-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2017. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 19 July 2017, examined and discussed the State Aid Bill, No 702-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2017. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Marinela Petrova The bill was presented by Marinela Petrova. According to the importer, the proposed bill does not change the existing order in principle. At the same time, legislative amendments of a legal and technical nature have been made. The actual amendments are imposed by changes in European legislation regulating the scope and content of the specific procedures imposed by the requirements of European regulations and the development of the practice of the European Commission in the field of State aid. It is imperative that a national mechanism be established to recover incompatible and unlawful State aid and to recover unlawful State aid. The control of the implementation of the State Aid Act, the drawing up of acts establishing infringements and the issuing of criminal orders is proposed to be carried out by officials of the Agency for State Financial Inspection. The specifics of the proceedings are set out in order to challenge acts for granting State aid. A mandatory full recovery of unlawful State aid was introduced as well as the award of unlawful interest. An opportunity has been envisaged for the national court to address the European Commission for expressing an opinion on the applicability and validity of an act of a European Union body. In order to clarify the legal framework, the functions of the Minister of Finance shall be extended to provide methodological guidance and to take measures to develop and improve the transparency regime. They are defined in the fullness and functions of the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry on State aid in the field of agriculture. The bill improves different terminological concepts. The Bill repealed the State Aid Act in force so far. There are corresponding changes to a number of regulations. A one-year period has been set for the adoption of regulations. A comprehensive preliminary assessment of the impact of the Bill has been carried out and expected results are the creation of a legal environment to prevent the illegal spending of public resources and the violation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the results vote: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to adopt the State Aid Bill, No 702-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Will we have an importer's opinion? We don't. I'm opening the debate. We're moving on to speeches. I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. Colleagues, we are going to the first vote on the State Aid Bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers, on 3 July 2017. 135 MPs voted: 134, none, abstention 1. With this, the State aid bill was adopted at first reading. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I ask for a procedure to extend the period between the first and second reading of the State Aid Act by another three weeks, i.e. the maximum period.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Please vote on the procedure for extending the time between first and second reading of this Draft of the maximum period. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. There is another procedure by Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the time limit for the joint Report on the draft amendments to the GPC adopted at first reading. The report is number 753-03-17. The deadline for proposals between first and second readings to be extended by 16 days, i.e. to expire on 11 September at 18:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Please vote on Mr. Kirilov's procedure. Vote 139 MPs: 135, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE OF THE TRUDA. They are: Diana Yordanova, Pavel Shopov, Svetlana Angelova, Dragomir Stoinev, Krum Zarkov, Dora Hristova, Albena Naydenova, Hasan Ademov, Alexander Sabanov and Elhan Kolkov on 6 July 2017. A report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u20	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 754-01-40 with importers Diana Yordanova and a group of MPs on 6 July 2017. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 19 July 2017 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code submitted by Diana Yordanova and a group of MPs from all parliamentary groups. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov, Mrs. Maya Manolova The bill was presented by Mr. Hassan Ademov. In his statement he stressed that the main objective of the Draft Law, drawn up by representatives of all parliamentary groups as a result of their work in the Temporary Commission on the establishment of cases of unpaid salaries of employees, is to provide additional protection of employees' rights when employers do not pay them their wages and benefits. The amendments provided for in the Labour Code aim to strengthen the control functions of the Executive Agency. The Agency shall be empowered to carry out checks in respect of the payment of wages and benefits and after termination of employment and to issue mandatory prescriptions in this respect. The period within which the employer is obliged to pay the benefits owed to his employees and due to the legal interest in the event of default shall be explicitly laid down. The proposed amendment to the Civil Procedure Code provides for the possibility for workers and employees to request the faster issue of an order for immediate execution on the basis of the provisions of the Executive Agency entered into force. This will make it easier for workers to look for the corresponding accrued and unpaid remuneration and benefits that the employer owes them. In addition, they will not have to bring legal proceedings to establish the basis and amount of the amounts due. The bill proposes that employers who owe remuneration and benefits to their workers may not participate in public procurement procedures such as contractors and subcontractors. The bill provides additional opportunities for workers to receive their claims for remuneration and benefits from the Fund for guaranteeing the claims of workers and employees. The guaranteed claims will be granted to the employees within three months of the date of entry into the Commercial Register of the judgment to open the insolvency proceedings. According to importers, the main purpose of the proposal for a change to the Commercial Law is to protect the interests of creditors and counterparties of the limited liability company where, after entering the Commercial Register, the manager's release, respectively, the company remains without a manager and does not appoint one. Against such a company cannot effectively initiate proceedings both by civil law and by administrative legal order because of the inability to carry out service of communications and other acts. The Commission received and submitted to the importers of the Draft Law and the members of the Commission opinions from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Justice, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Union for Economic Initiative, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria and a Protocol from the meeting of the Committee on Labour Law of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation of 14 July 2017 on Draft Discussions. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy supports the proposals made for amendments and additions to the Labour Code, as they ensure better protection of employees and create greater legal certainty in exercising control over employers' obligations after termination of employment. In connection with the proposal for a new para. 3 in art. 228 of the Labour Code, which provides for a deadline for payment of benefits, it should be borne in mind that the provision would not be applicable to the unemployment benefit, since the employer's obligation arises from the time when the request is made and the circumstances are verified by the worker or employee. Also, the period for which the unemployment allowance is paid may be longer than one month...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition, the provision allows a collective contract to negotiate another period of time for payment of the benefits, that is to say, for a longer period of time. This, in turn, contradicts the principle that a collective employment contract can negotiate more favourable conditions for the employee. The MCC supports, in principle, the proposal to include employees to persons who are entitled under the Civil Procedure Code to request the court to issue an implementing order on the basis of a document, but should bear in mind that the proposed provision may create problems in its application due to the inability of the worker or employee to obtain a copy of the Labour Inspection Protocol imposing the forced administrative measures of the employer. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy supports the proposals for amending the Law on guaranteed claims of employees in insolvency of the employer and the Commercial Law. The Ministry of Justice generally supports the proposed draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code in its main objective of providing additional protection of employees' rights in cases where employers do not pay their wages and benefits. They do not support the proposal made for Article 412a of the Labour Code, offering an addition, according to which companies established under the Law on Obligations and Contracts may be subject to an administrative penalty. According to the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, the company is responsible under the Law on Obligations and Contracts and cannot be subject to administrative criminal liability under the Labour Code. In addition, under the Law on Administrative Violations and Penalties, administrative criminal liability is personal and for administrative infringements committed in carrying out the activities of undertakings, establishments and organisations shall be the responsibility of the employees who committed them, as well as of the managers who ordered or allowed them to be committed. It is clear from the views of the trade unions that KT "Support" support the Bill unconditionally, while the CST finds that there are inaccurate and vague texts that need to be corrected. Otherwise, they would be difficult to implement and will not achieve the objective of the Bill. The opinions of employers' organisations have principled support for some of the amendments and categorically fail to accept others. With regard to the expanded powers of the Labour Inspection, all employers' organisations believe that they violate basic principles of civil law. The labor inspectorate cannot seize the competences of the Bulgarian court. It controls compliance with labour law, but only as long as there is an employment relationship. After its termination, an employment dispute may arise and the assessment of the evidence should be carried out by a court which has the right to appoint a forensic accounting report and to collect other evidence. As regards the change in the Civil Procedure Code, both employers and trade unions reject it because they consider that the reason for issuing an order for immediate execution should not be the prescription of the Labour Inspection but the statement of payroll. The change in the Commercial Law is also not supported by the understanding that representative power is always exercised by a rightful person and cannot be transferred to the partners. The proposal is contrary to art. 155, p. 3 of the Commercial Law, where a request for deletion of the company and of art. 11 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. Under the Law on guaranteed employees' claims in insolvency of the employer, trade unions generally support the amendments, while employers' organisations reject them. They also categorically reject the proposals for amending the Public Procurement Act. The discussion was attended by the MPs, Hasan Ademov, Pavel Shopov, Svetlana Angelova and Georgi Gokov. They expressed their opinion that the achievement of this Bill was the consensus reached in its drafting. The changes proposed are not radical, but will definitely have a disciplinary effect on incorrect employers and a positive effect on workers who are expected to receive their unpaid wages and benefits. It is true that the problems that the Bill is trying to solve will not be eradicated, but a positive step is being taken in the direction of their resolution. Mrs. Maya Manolova, who called on the MPs to make several mandatory changes in the drafting of the Bill in its second discussion, also took part in the discussion of the Bill. She believes that if the texts remain in this form, the problem of unpaid salaries will not be removed. After the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 18 votes for the vote, without votes, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy abstention adopted the following opinion: it proposes to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft for amendment and supplement to the Labour Code, No 754-01-40, submitted by Diana Yordanova and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u21	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Next up is a report from the Legal Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u22	Madam President, honourable Members. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 754-01-40, submitted by Diana Ivanova Yordanova, Pavel Dimitrov Shopov, Svetlana Angelova Naydenova, Dragomir Velkov Stoynev, Krum Kostadinov Zarkov, Dora Stoyanova Hristova, Albena Vladimirova Naydenova, Hasan Ahmed Ademov, Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov and Elhan Mehmedov Kolkov on 6 July 2017. At its meeting held on 19 July 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed Draft for amendment and supplement to the Labour Code, No 754-01-40, submitted by Diana Ivanova Yordanova, Pavel Dimitrov Shopov, Svetlana Angelova Naydenova, Dragomir Velkov Stodinev, Krum Kostadinov Zarkov, Dora Stoyanova Hristova, Albena Vladimirova Naydenova, Hasan Ahmed Ademov, Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov and Elhan Mehmedov Kolkov on 6 July 2017. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova Deputy Minister. The submitted bill aims to regulate public relations in relation to the provision of work and its fair timely payment, which will create additional protection of employees' rights. The amendments provided for aim at strengthening the control functions of the Executive Agency on the occasion of signals of unpaid wages and benefits of workers and employees. There is a legal possibility to issue an order for immediate execution in favour of workers and employees on the basis of an effective prescription of the Executive Agency "Master Labour Inspection" by providing for amendments to the Law on guaranteed claims of workers and employees in the event of insolvency of the employer, the Law on Public Procurement and the Commercial Law, which aims to secure the rights and legitimate interests not only of employees but also of creditors and employers' counterparties. Ms. Rusinova presented the opinion of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, which supports the bill in principle and pointed out that the proposed changes to the Labour Code provide an additional guarantee for the rights of employees. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Pencho Milkov, Simeon Naydenov, Christian Mitev and Danail Kirilov, who stated their basic support for the Bill and announced that they will make proposals to correct the texts between first and second votes. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 17 votes for the Council, without the opposition of the National Assembly, proposed that the National Assembly adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 754-01-40, submitted by Diana Ivanova Yordanova, Pavel Dimitrov Shopov, Svetlana Angelova Naydenova, Dragomir Velkov Stoynev, Krum Kostadinov Zarkov, Dora Stoyanova Hristova, Albena Vladimirova Naydenova, Hasan Ahmed Ademov, Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov and Elhan Mehmedov Kolkov on 6 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Following an opinion of the importers. I give the floor to the MP Diana Yordanova. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, the amendments that we have proposed with a group of MPs, you can see that they have been signed by MPs from all parliamentary groups and are the result of the work of the Temporary Commission to establish cases for unpaid salaries, although the subject of our activities covered only and only consideration of such cases, we have united around the idea that it is ultimately good not only to meet, to examine and analyse, but also to propose concrete measures. Therefore, this is the place to thank all my fellow Members who participated in the work of the Temporary Commission in the first place. Secondly, I would like to call on the other MPs, too, when we are dealing with problems involving a huge circle of people, without politicizing, without trying to draw political dividends, to actually fulfill our fundamental role for which people have sent us here, namely to try to solve their problems. I would like to tell you that the problem with unpaid salaries is a subject which does not exist today or yesterday, unfortunately, in the years it has had its peaks. Rejoicing is that at the moment declines are reported, the amounts are getting much smaller, but there are still such cases. The measures that we propose to take from the first to second reading may be a very good step in this direction. It's basically a hot potato that no one, unfortunately, has been dealing with in the past 20 years. The proposals were signed by all MPs, although BSP colleagues had a particular opinion when signing the report, but their particular opinion was that they would practically have refined and submitted new proposals between first and second readings. We will probably also do so, so I call on all my fellow Members who are tempted by the subject to actually consider the Bill and if they can contribute accordingly to its better adoption and implementation, to make their proposals. After all, with the proposals, we aim to provide additional protection to all workers and employees in cases where their employers, for one reason or another, do not pay or delay payment of remuneration and benefits. We have made changes to several laws as, on the one hand, we are expanding the powers of the Executive Agency We also foresee the explicit regulation of a time limit by which the employer is bound and is obliged to pay the benefits owed to his workers and employees, and for each day delay regardless of the period we introduce, he owes interest on default. We foresee changes in art. 417 of the Civil Procedure Code, which envisions, if I may say, a rapid track for employees, namely that they may quickly and easily request, on the basis of, notice, something revolutionary, of provisions of the Labour Inspection to issue an order for immediate execution entered into force. In this way, workers will be made easier to seek from their unpaid employer the respective recognized and unpaid remuneration and benefits, without having to pursue long court cases to establish grounds and accordingly the amount of compensation. In the project we also offer something new. For the first time, I am glad that we have all united around it, employers who owe remuneration to their workers and employees, as well as benefits, not being able to participate in public procurement procedures such as contractors and subcontractors. That is to say, this will be an additional incentive to the correct employers themselves at the expense of the incorrect ones who, in many cases, represent a kind of competition. We also make significant changes to the Fund for guaranteeing employees' claims by providing additional opportunities for workers to receive their claims for remuneration and benefits by increasing the time limit for submitting the application for them. In addition, an amendment is made to the Commercial Law, which is aimed at protecting the interests of creditors and their counterparties. Where, after entry into the Commercial Register, the exemption of a manager or manager, the company itself remains without one and does not appoint one even after the period laid down in art. 155, p. 3 of the Commercial Law. The proposal is in the interest of legal certainty and is directed against damage to third parties, by simply chicing by the partners, the failure to fulfil their own obligations. This makes it difficult for the persons with whom these companies have both commercial and labour law and administrative relations. No proceedings can be initiated against such a company effectively, both by civil law and by administrative order, because of the failure to deliver a communication or any other act. This is due, unfortunately, to a poor practice of not writing a contact person, not writing a manager and, when it is a state body, being a counterparty to the company concerned, wants to make demands...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u25	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u26	...to have no one to point them to after all. In practice, the present reality shows that, despite the existence of this provision, there are companies that, as I have already said, do not have a registered manager long after the mandatory three-month term under the Commercial Law has expired. In this regard, we are also proposing in art. 141 of the Commercial Law to achieve the sought protection of third parties and legal certainty. Colleagues, I call on you, as we have worked in the Commission and, as we have all tabled the proposals together, to support the tabled General Law of all Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. This was an importer's opinion. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The Commission's work is impressive and the bill is in response to an extremely negative phenomenon with serious social consequences of unpaid wages, wages. The industry in Bulgaria implements one of the largest and highest profit rates in Europe and at the same time pays the lowest salaries in the European Union. In Bulgaria there is no fair and dignified pay of the labor and against the background of all this there are people who do not receive these low wages, even though they have done their duties in good faith in their jobs. In Bulgaria, as the rule of law, the main content of each contract of employment is that the employee provides his employer with his workforce for remuneration. The regular payment of this remuneration is a fundamental obligation of the employer and it should carry out it precisely in time and quantitative terms. Of course, in our country, as well as many other legal obligations, this fundamental obligation is violated and is not respected in a number of cases due to financial difficulties that the employer is experiencing, but in many cases and quite deliberately in order to make greater profits. Intentionally or not, this non-payment of wages creates serious problems in labour relations and is of great social importance. It is understandable and possible for an employer to experience temporary difficulties, temporary difficulties and not be able to pay the salaries within the agreed period, which does not mean that he should go to prison, but it must be clear clearly that these temporary difficulties should not, in any case, be at the expense of the employees. Based on all of this, the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) proposed the establishment of the Temporary Commission for the study of the cases of unpaid salaries. Her task was to collect, summarize and analyse data on cases of due but unpaid salaries by incorrect employers. During their work, the members of the Commission united, on the basis of identified problems in the legislation in force, to propose legislative initiatives to reduce the cases of unpaid wages and benefits of workers and employees from their employers. We welcome this Commission decision. As a result of the Commission's work, there is a 63-page report and proposals for legislative initiatives which can generally be divided into four groups: extending the powers of the Labour Inspection, changes in the Civil Procedure Code in order to enable employees to quickly and easily request, on the basis of the provisions of the Executive Agency entered into force, a Chief Labour Inspectorate, issuing an order for immediate implementation, or, as has become popular, a rapid track for obtaining this performance, employers who owe salaries may not participate in public procurement and increase the period for submitting applications to the Guarantee Fund for receiving the salaries due. Unfortunately, after the hard work and, I would say, fruitful work of the Temporary Commission, she managed to offer a satisfactory solution only to some of the problems, but missed the opportunity to solve the problem entirely. Importers must recognise that for the majority of the cases of infringements of workers described in the report, absolutely nothing changes as a result of the proposals made. I and the MPs from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria and we will support these proposals, I suppose we will accept them because they are good and because we, too, the parliamentary group, insisted on them, insisted on them the trade unions and the Ombudsman. However, does the result, which ultimately all of us want to be achieved, make it possible for the injured worker with several paid but paid salaries to take them back, in practice, to happen? I can give a lot of examples, but I'll only serve one, and he's on the report. It is no secret that companies with accumulated debts, including unpaid salaries of workers and employees, are transferred to third parties who are socially weak citizens, have no property and creditors cannot recover their claims from them in any way. A very vivid example in this regard is the case of Eko Skarpe. In early 2017, the owner, who is an Italian citizen, transferred the company along with the abandoned workshop in the village of Vetren, Pazardzhik district to a woman with an address in the village of Kriva Bara, Montana. A check in the Trade Register found that the same woman owns or participates in the management of a total of 22 companies. Thus incorrect employers, such as this Italian citizen are exempt from the company's liabilities and remain all the obligations of the new owner, then most often register another company and start again in most cases, the same debt practices. I ask the importers, and all the MPs in this Chamber: how is this case solved with the changes proposed by the Commission? Right away, without waiting for an answer from you, I answer at all! We absolutely do not stop this deceptive practice, and it is one of the most annoying ones that exist in order, of course, with the fact that workers do not receive their salaries. Many more questions to which I find no answer in the Commission report, and even less in the proposals made on the basis of the Commission's work and the findings in the report. The first of these is: is it easy to access the wronged workers and employees to the funds raised in the Guaranteed claims of the workers and employees? I say again, no! It's not easy to access. During the discussions in the Temporary Commission and in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, employers' organizations raced to explain to us how well the Fund is managed, how everything is okay, how more than 250-260 million are accumulated in it. I didn't at least hear anyone in my presence questioning and denying that the Fund is stable, that it is well managed. However, we have a fund that has accumulated money, we have incorrect employers who are probably a very small proportion of employers, but there are also workers and employees who do not receive their salaries from these incorrect employers. So what? What's good about having money in the Fund, but it doesn't go as it should. The question arises: does the Fund perform its legally incorporated function to pay guaranteed claims to employees in the event of the employer's insolvency, when opening insolvency proceedings? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. He's not doing it to the fullest! There is some fear in employers' organizations that the funds in the Fund will decrease and resume the contribution in it. That is why it is the resistance to facilitating access to the funds in it. There's no way that's gonna happen. According to data from the General Labour Inspection, the unpaid salaries are within 10 million. lv. Suppose we ease access to funds from the Fund and all workers manage to get their right to receive their unpaid salaries, then a maximum of 10 million of the fund will be spent. There's 250-260 million in it. What's keeping this fund about? The fund is rich, the Fund is intact, not all workers receive their dues. What do we do by untying the opportunity for people to get their wages due to them? We only made a fuss with this Commission, listened to the people, gave them hope, and we didn't finish things. This is the case I have in my constituency, Stara Zagora, with Remotex. Perhaps you remember that this case was dragged from forty-two, forty-third, now in the forty-fourth National Assembly. Tell me how, once the Commission accepts their proposals, how will I face these people in a constituency and tell them that the problem of their unpaid salaries has not been solved again?! Wasn't it wise to allow employed workers and employees to request the court to open insolvency proceedings, because at some point they may appear the largest creditor of the employer with their unpaid salaries. This is necessary in order for employees to have an initiative, with remedies, where, despite their obligation to do so, their employer has not requested the opening of proceedings and insolvency proceedings. This is a way to end the practice of misappropriation of workers and employees who have not received their due remuneration because the employer does not wish to open insolvency proceedings and the workers miss the time limits within which they may claim the payment of their claims from the Fund. You say it's possible to abuse. Well, apply such legislation that there is no abuse. It cannot, under such pretenses, reject working proposals with such motives. It may not be the place here, but I will mention something else, which I think it was imperative to propose by the Commission a change in the order of creditors established in art. 722 of the Commercial Law, which in the context of the insolvency procedure gives priority to claims arising from employment or terminated employment relationships. Where the State cannot guarantee you the payment of the wage, to protect you from incorrect employers, as provided for in a number of laws, is it not appropriate for it to give you a place on the front of the list of claims, because there is very often no property left in the distribution to satisfy the fourth in the order of that list, where the employees' claims are currently in place. The debate on incorrect employers in Bulgaria with outstanding salaries, benefits, overtime, insurance has been conducted for many years. The Commission's analysis shows that there are serious gaps in legislation that allow dishonest and incorrect employers to take advantage of them. Now was the time to solve the whole problem of non-payment of wages, because this is not only for the benefit of workers and employees, but also for the benefit of correct employers. Otherwise, the pressure to criminalise the non-payment of salaries will increase, as with the non-payment of social security. Criminalization won't solve the problem and the worker's question to get his salary. As Bulgarian parliamentarians, we must, along with the efforts to ease the business and stimulate entrepreneurship, strongly oppose and make practices that harm thousands of workers in the country, become impossible. We must guarantee the workers' labour rights to a full extent. One of these rights is payment of the agreed remuneration. We must strongly oppose active lobbying from very high places for scandalous changes in labour legislation aimed at cutting benefits and additional protection of employees, such as the removal of class time, the removal of minimum social security benefits, minimum wages and so on. Once again, I will draw attention to the fact that the parliamentary group will support these proposals, because they are good, and I will not say that they are late because they really are. We are under the impression that we are not solving the problem fully and that is why we have initiated amendments from the parliamentary group to the Commercial Law, which we believe will contribute to the full resolution of the problem. Unfortunately, this proposal is not addressed together and in parallel with the proposal for amendments to the Labour Code, but when the time comes, we will propose them and persuade you to vote for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u29	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines to his statement? Here you go, Mrs. Angelova. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u30	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Gokov! I am concerned about the tone of your speech and most of all by trying to downplay the work of the Temporary Commission. In this case, we are not looking at the work of the Temporary Commission that was a few weeks ago. In this case, we are looking at a package of legislative measures in order to help thousands of workers and employees who have been unable for months to get their wages made as a result of the incorrect attitude of untrue employers, there have been many such cases. I believe that this package of legislative initiatives in the Labour Code and other laws deserves attention and must be supported by all MPs, but I cannot agree with the attempt to criticise this bill, to say that these changes are irrelevant. This is the first step towards solving this extremely important problem, because decisions in the area of labour pay are not easy. They must be consensual, reasonable and sustainable. In no case can I accept the way in which you attempt to politicize the Bill and the problem of unpaid salaries. The problem with unpaid salaries is neither left nor right, it is not a problem of GERB or BSP and there is no place for politics here. Guided by your typical monotonous opposition speech, you clearly cannot break away from the essence of the problem under consideration. I cannot agree with your statement, especially with the last words you have downplayed this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u31	That was Mrs. Svetlana Angelova's first line. A second line has been requested. Come in, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov! I did not understand your speech as a denigration of the Commission. This Commission made sense. Its main point was that we gave a serious sign that all parties in the National Assembly identify a very serious problem and are ready to solve it. During the discussion of the Bill and not the work of the Commission itself and its product, it became clear that the proposed texts, I am among the importers, contain some weaknesses, some of a technical and legal nature, but which may prove important. Why? Because the problem is very severe, very serious, and any link of impracticality can actually ruin our otherwise very good work. In that order of thought, I have understood your statement, and that is why it is my line as an appeal to continue this work. I am also obliged to say that the process does not end today, we are at the first reading of the Bill. On this topic there are already tabled in the National Assembly and other bills, and the one that today, I hope, we will all accept together, is subject to enrichment, to precision, so that it is really effective. And most importantly, perhaps once voted on this Bill, corrected and adopted definitively and at second reading, it will depend very much on the will of the executive, on the way we organise work and again by us, when we vote through the budget on the relevant changes that will enable the control authorities to fulfil their tasks that we are calling on them today.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u33	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Is there a third line? I can't see. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'll start backwards. Dear Mr. Zarkov, I agree with your line. It is very good that you have made it clear that I do not belittle the Commission's work in any way. Maybe a little longer on her job, even though we're talking about the Bill. However, there is no way out of this talk about the Commission and its work, which I repeat, although I was not a Commissioner, I attended several of the meetings, I appreciate as high and responsible, and with the results of the work. Indeed, my speech was an appeal for continuing work in this direction and for achieving results, because we are now halfway. About Mrs. Angelova. I don't know what was disturbing in my tone of speech, and I don't know if anyone noticed a threat to the adoption of the bill or a statement against the bill at all. Denigrating the Commission's work Once again, I repeat that the Commission, personally, and my parliamentary group, appreciate the work of the Commission very highly. There was no hint in my speech of denigrating her work. Of course, the Bill you tabled, the package of measures, as you call it, from legislative initiatives, deserves admiration. You'll get the admirations with the vote. You will see that the bill, which has been tabled at the initiative of the Commission and signed by MPs from all parliamentary groups, will be adopted with an exclusive consensus without people against and abstention. Again, I am telling you that this bill, I said it in my main statement, and now I am saying it in the back to you, does not solve entirely the problem of unpaid salaries. It doesn't solve it! There is no way to convince people who will continue not to receive their salaries from employers and from the Fund to ensure these salaries that you have done something, as they will continue not to receive their salaries. You say you've taken the first step. I'm telling you: this problem is a precipice. And a precipice doesn't jump a few steps. He has to step over himself all of a sudden. From the momentum we had to solve the problem completely. About the other thing you said about me politicizing the problem, I'm not gonna stop at all. There's no politicisation in what I just said and what I'm saying now. There's really no room for politicizing. About the monotonous opposition talk, it's your problem that you don't understand. I think I'm speaking quite expressively and 90% maybe 99%, except for you, have understood what I said and understood that we're doing half things right now. God willing, let's finish the job. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u35	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any other statements? I can't see. Dr. Hassan Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Very brief. To your attention today are the changes to the Labour Code, which are the result of the finalisation of the Commission's work on establishing unpaid salaries and benefits. The fact that, with the changes in the Labour Code in the Transitional and Final Provisions, we are changing the Commercial Act, the Law on guaranteeing employees' claims in the event of employer insolvency, we are changing the Public Procurement Act means that this problem is multilayered and hardly any of the importers have the claim to claim that any issues related to unpaid salaries can be solved with a single bill, although a fruit of consensus. This bill must be supported because it is one of the first steps to solve this problem. I am not saying that this problem can be solved with a single bill or with several bills, because we need to be aware of the objective of this bill. The aim is additional support for workers and employees who have to receive unpaid salaries and benefits and, on the other hand, a very important side of this Bill is that it also claims to discipline incorrect employers, which is very important. However, the expectations for this Bill of those Bulgarian workers and employees who have to receive unpaid salaries and compensation are that after the adoption of this Bill, they will immediately receive their benefits and salaries, which are delayed. Unfortunately, this is not going to happen, but this bill is, I repeat, the first step towards blocking the gaps in Bulgarian legislation, which enables incorrect employers to move in this way. My request is, despite the imperfections of the proposed Bill, of course, we have the will, we have the capacity and the potential between first and second reading with the participation of importers and experts from the various ministries to offer at second reading the attention of the National Assembly a bill that will be a first step towards solving this extremely important and painful problem. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of one of the conclusions of the Temporary Commission. You know that according to information from the General Labour Inspection in 2016, the amount of unpaid salaries is about 22 million, I am talking about incorrect employers. Following the intervention of the Labour Inspection and the other authorities of the State, a large part of what was due for 2016, while those remaining, were only 22 million. This means that there are 3 billion paid against them, that is, correct employers are far more than incorrect. The idea of this bill is to discipline, I repeat, very important, incorrect employers. Let us hope that, with the efforts of all MPs, we will be able to offer to the attention of the National Assembly a project that will be a first step in solving this very important social problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u37	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines to his statement? I can't see. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. First vote on the bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code with importers Diana Yordanova, Pavel Shopov, Svetlana Angelova, Dragomir Stoinev, Krum Zarkov, Dora Hristova, Albena Naydenova, Hasan Ademov, Alexander Sabanov and Elhan Kolkov, submitted on 6 July 2017. Vote 139 MPs: 138, against none, abstention 1. The bill has been passed. Here you go, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I am making a procedural proposal that the period between first and second readings for proposals on the bill for amendment of the labour code should be 3 weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Is there another suggestion? I can't see. Please vote on the procedural proposal. They voted 137 MPs: for 89, against 11, abstention 37. A declaration is followed on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The clashes in our society have already reached the blast point. There is intolerance between goals, between employers and workers, daily criminal activities. News releases represent ugly scenes from all over the country. Unfortunately, Bulgaria no longer resembles a 21st century European country. And all this is a practical result of the three successive governments of GERB and Boyko Borisov for eight years [[Shouting from GERB: "Woo! "]] Borisov 1, Borisov 2 and currently Borisov 3. Here are the facts only from the last two weeks. Yesterday, a famous Bulgarian national television journalist was beaten in a park. They beat up a notary in the street the other day. They beat up doctors and teachers. A person near the Deputy Prime Minister was arrested with a gang of smugglers of illegal immigrants. Some beaches are once again outlawing armed mutren squads. A member of the SEM instead of being evicted from there because of a public threat to journalists, these days will decide who will be the next Director of BNT. In the NPC, we can't tell if it's 1.4 million or tens of times more. Shall I continue? A scandal for party racketeering for tons of sudzuk going to court. And this is a continuous process from the beginning of the third government of GERB. Colleagues, we're already a blown-up society and a country. Power only produces ugly scandals. We are about to be taken away from the Presidency of the European Union from 1 January. [[Speaking from GERB: "Eee! "]] And the responsibility lies only with the fuses, ordered by Mr. Borisov and Mr. Tsvetanov. You're not responsible. Against the background of all this, the government in the face of Valeri Simeonov and employers' organizations also pour oil into the fire. They want to eliminate the unions because they interfered with business. They were responsible for their failures. But, guys, this isn't a 19th century return.? At that time industrial workers fought bloody battles with police to defend their working rights eight-hour working day, right to protests and so on. On top of that, these educated people, employers, why they mix minimum wage and poverty line. So they want the minimum wage of 460 BGN. to become BGN 314, as is the line of poverty. This is a one-third cut, with 32%. Here to remind you of an interesting comparison. The wages in the entire real sector in Bulgaria are slightly over 16 billion a year, while the profits are more than 20 billion. With only a small part of these gains, real income, especially the working poor, can be significantly increased instead of being reduced further. This would benefit both the economy in general and our country, and even you, the government, if you boasted that it was your merit. In our country, labor has been underestimated at least twice compared to real labour productivity. The demands for people are growing, and the wages of at least two thirds of the workers are not growing. The working conditions in certain situations are brutally bad and severe and socially unprotected. This is a reality not from civilised Europe, but from the Third World. Colleagues, it's high time we turned this reality around. That is why we appeal to power and to employers' organizations. Let us not forget that we are a country from Europe, but with the highest percentage of working poor. And that's why the least of the workers are to blame. Here to add the damage to the demographic catastrophe, not only the expansion of the ghettos, but the age disproportion. In 2040 out of all five people, three will be retired, and only two will be working. And one of the workers will also be unqualified and semi-literate. Let's add our educational system, which produces 40% functionally illiterate. Such a thing we cannot accept not only because we are left-wing party, but above all because we are normal people and we are Miley for Bulgaria. How can we summarize the situation? The state's systems are collapsing. Our economy is based on a European donation that will not be endless. The demographic catastrophe has brought us to a national apocalypse. Extensive territories are being depopulated. And with all this, part of the big business wants to eliminate the unions. They had interfered with productivity!? It's practically what it's about. The mob is taking over and terrorizing more and more of our cities, and the judiciary rather than mobilizing for the protection of society is doing the opposite. He creates daily screaming examples of people who can't find justice. Self-government becomes a natural form of relationships in our society. Already every day we learn about open terrorization on beaches and parks, streets and in front of offices. You've brought us back to the brutal times in the mid-1990s. And this under the watchful gaze of Borisov and the shivering under it the fuses. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, we must say that your behaviour in Parliament in this first session shows whether or not by reluctance, I do not know, but you have not begun to solve any of the above. You lost valuable national time at a critical moment. We're witnessing daily corruption scandals. The Patriots are smuggling refugees!? Borisov's favorite ministers are exploding with corruption scandals in API and NDK. The detained head of the DCI for a 135 million-dollar deal with Sofia Municipality. lv. This is today Bulgaria under your authority! Disgracefully, we stand first in corruption. Foreign investment came back 20 years ago. They beat people up in broad daylight in the center of D.C. The state collapsed, colleagues, and this is due to two simple reasons: for the third time since 2009 Borisov manages the country, but in the same bandit way. You are not listening to any citing criticism from the public or from the opposition in this Parliament, namely BSP. If you don't hear from us this time, your mandate will be even shorter than the previous one. Anger builds up in society. As comical as it may sound, Mr. Tsvetanov, the affair with the Sudjuka of Dobrich, it is the embodiment of the essence of your rule. Once for four tons, another time it's four billion. There is an alternative to your disastrous rule. People will be looking for her soon enough. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u41	Personal explanation or declaration?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u42	Let it be a declaration to avoid these disputes that are pointless. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would very much like to say that we distinguish ourselves from such behaviour from the plenary. The fact that someone enters parliament to make scandals, to provoke tensions, only leads to the destruction of the prestige of the institution National Assembly. And today, when we have an extremely serious programme, both for today and for the week, I thought we should concentrate more on what we should do as MPs. These insulting qualifications and everything you've said, dear Mr. MP, I don't remember your name either. [[Applause from GERB]] But I would like to assure you that the parliamentary group of GERB and all other MPs from the parliamentary groups who actively participate in the legislative activity and in the normal real functioning of the Bulgarian Parliament, they have always been people who can understand each other on the given national topics. I believe that such behavior is an attempt as a protective response to the problems you have in BSP [[Applause from GERB]] Because you're talking about Sujuka, which has already become the talk. Yes, the Sudjuk is not a problem of BSP, but GERB party made the clear decision and separated itself from such behavior and left the competent authorities to rule. Just to say that there's not a single MP who's been asked for the immunity he hasn't given himself. There is not a single MP who has been asked for immunity, who has spoken to prisoners and who has been buying votes to enter the Bulgarian Parliament. [[Applause.]] Where was your position? This is the problem of BSP because you cannot express your positive principle position, and you always want to go back to times where only there is a confrontation. So the problem with sudjuka, if we put it on one side, on the other side is buying Roma votes to enter the Bulgarian Parliament. [[Applause from GERB.]] What do you think is democratic and what is strong as a political reaction? Because the reaction, which also has the people's representative, which has been so far, has resigned from the Bulgarian Parliament so that it does not interfere with the investigation and there are no such speculations that you today smell from this parliamentary tribune about what GERB is doing and what it is not doing. Just to assure you that we are receiving full international support for the policies that today's government is making. And they are also related to the upcoming presidency, with which Bulgaria will be leading and we will be the capital of European policies. Let us be consolidated and show our true patriotic attitude and our nationally responsible behavior, which we must demonstrate as Bulgarians in the first place, and then let them be our political biases. Because, honourable Members, we know you're in pain, that you've lost the election. We know you can't get out of this stress yet. [[Applause from GERB.]] We know that this will hold you for all these four years of current government. And that we have a cabinet Borisov 1, cabinet Borisov 2, cabinet Borisov 3, I think there may be a cabinet Borisov 4 [[Bourney applause from GERB]] because it is the Bulgarian citizens who give an assessment of politics, the behaviour of each party and the vote they receive. So I can wish you success in anything that can be positive and constructive by you. And you'll get our support. I thank these worthy MPs from BSP who share their worries that such behavior is unacceptable in the Bulgarian Parliament, which is provoked by the leadership of BSP. [[Applause from GERB.]] Dear Members of Parliament, we understand your pain, we understand your disapproval, but perhaps you will find more courage so that you can actually give more positive sign in the work of the forty-fourth Parliament. We're outstretched. I would like to thank the United patriots for actually having a majority that gives us stability to have our country as a member of the European Union. I would also like to thank the Members of the National Assembly from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms when there are national topics, they support us. I am convinced that the reasonable MPs in the BSP will provoke more meaningful debate in your parliamentary group to reduce this tension. This tension can be reduced by all of us. It cannot be reduced by such declarations that provoke hatred, division and opposition. Believe me, this is the time in which you have achieved some political positions or political successes, but today the times are different. Today we are a member of the European Union. Our country is an extremely serious entity in the region we are in. Here we must give what is deserved to Prime Minister Borisov for his leadership qualities and for the assessment that the European leaders gave. Yes, perhaps the leaders of the BSP do not give this assessment, but we rely on voters to be the ones to give an assessment of our activities. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. [[The National Representative Anton Kutev wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] Let's hear it. Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, my procedure relates to the fact that Mr. Tsvetanov, who called us to... [[Reply of the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u45	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u46	Don't shout, Mrs. Dukova! Don't scream! Take it easy! ...one-action and common goals, at the same time affording to do something that I think you shouldn't allow. Allow yourself a kind of seeking unity, once again to issue sentences here by the National Assembly. By the way, this isn't the first time Mr. Tsvetanov has done it. The previous times, including Gorna Oryahovitsa, even has a conviction against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u47	Please, Mr. Kutev! In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u48	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman. You can't have a member of parliament, whoever it was, handing out sentences, given that, at the moment, if you were referring to Mr. Genov before that...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u49	Where did you hear a verdict?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u50	There's no end to it, and whether he was buying votes or not, I don't know if it's true. I know that there was a mayor of GERB who was spoken of...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u51	No name has been mentioned, Mr. Kutev! Mr. Kutev, I'll take your word for it. What you're talking about right now is not true. No name has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u52	Okay. I'm addressing you, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u53	Yes, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u54	You cannot allow sentences to be issued here, from the National Assembly stands, because Mr. Tsvetanov, who did so, has already been tried for this, with Gorna Oryahovitsa. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] He has shown that this is a bad parliamentary practice and in this case you cannot specifically get unity, Mr. Tsvetanov. She may have been harsh, but she wasn't offensive, unlike yours. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u55	I can tell you a lot of work, Mr. Kutev, according to your procedure, but I will refrain. I think it's unnecessary. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]] Any other affidavits? I won't. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CALLED PROCEEDING CODEX. (General Draft Law on the Laws adopted on 30 June 2017 on the first vote amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Code, No 702-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 June 2017; and Draft Law on the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Code, No 754-01-15, submitted by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 1 June 2017. It is prepared on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor to present the report to the Committee on Legal Affairs, whose chair you are.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I present to your attention the report on the General Draft Law adopted on 30 June 2017 at the first vote four bills, as the esteemed Mr. President pointed out and individualized them. [[Loud noise, many MPs leaving the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u57	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Just for a moment, please, let's try to give some direction to the Brown movement in the room. Please, fellow Members of the National Assembly, who will participate in the work on the Bill, take their place and leave the House! My fellow Members, please take your seats in this Chamber! Mr. Svilensky, please take your place in the hall! Lord Boychev, please take your place in the hall! I ask the Quaestors to ask the MPs to take their seats in the Chamber or leave it! You can have conversations somewhere else. Excuse me, Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes, in principle, the following version of § 1: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 the following amendments and additions 1. In para. 1 is created t. 8a: Eight o'clock. the act committed constitutes an administrative infringement for which administrative criminal proceedings have been concluded; 2. A new para is being created. 4. The Criminal proceedings shall be terminated on the basis of para. 1, t. 8a if in the cases referred to in Article 8a. 25, t. 5 within one month of suspension, no proposal has been made for the reopening of administrative criminal proceedings or the proposal is not respected. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u59	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, as well as § 1 of the Commission report. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. The name of the Law and § 1 of the Commission report are unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u60	By § 2, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. Under § 3, the Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 3 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u61	We are voting § 2 on the Commission report and the proposal of the same Commission for § 3. They voted 126 MPs: 126, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 2 of the Commission's report and the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 3 by importer have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u62	Under Paragraph 4, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 3, after the words "al." The following shall be added: 1..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u63	We are voting § 3 on the Commission report, with the addition made to its report. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u64	Proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Yordanka Fikirliyska and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39, para. 3 words: Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new § 5 and 6. .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48, para. 1, the words "art." 24, para. The information referred to in §6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words.............................................................................. 24, para. 1, item 1 to 8 and 10 are replaced by point 1. 24, para. 1, item 1 to 8a and 10. 2. In para. 2 words.............................................................................. 24, para. 4 shall be replaced Proposal from the MPs Kirilov, Fikirliyska, Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 words if the prosecutor finds that there are grounds under art. They shall be replaced by the prosecutor, and the prosecutor shall notify the victim of his right within one month to file a grievance pursuant to Article. 81...........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u65	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My speech is in connection with the new § 7. The original version, as proposed by the Commission, did not defend the legitimate rights and interests of the victim in any way. Later, however, for which I thank for the efforts made in the Commission, this text has been cleared and acquired the edit that you see, namely the Prosecutor informs the victims of his rights within one month to file a grievance according to the order of art. 81., which is something quite different from what was originally proposed, which is why we will support the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote the Commission's proposals to create new paragraphs 4, 5, 6 and 7 with their respective content, according to the Commission report. Please vote on paragraphs 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the Commission Report. There are 127 MPs voting: all for, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the Commission Report are unanimous.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u68	By § 5, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 8. Proposal from the MPs Kirilov, Fikirliyska, Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 is created t. 4. "4." the charge has been filed under the terms of art. 269, para. 3. 2. A new para is being created. 5. The non-retention measure in pre-trial proceedings shall not last for more than two years if the person has been brought intodictment for a serious criminal offence under Article. 411a, which provides for a penalty of not less than 15 years in prison or another more severe punishment and more than one year in other cases. 3. Previously on AMC's... 5, 6, 7 and 8 become respectively. 6, 7, 8 and 9................................................................................................. Under § 6 the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 10. Under § 7 the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 11. By § 8 the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 12. By § 9, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u69	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take a position on the offer to create a new § 9, which makes them substantial, I think, amendments to art. Article 63 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Art. 63, which concerns detention in custody. The importers and the Commission propose that there should be grounds for detention under the same Criminal Code when it is provided that objective truth can be disclosed in the case and in the absence of an accused person. In other words, the absence of an accused person in the case could be on his own grounds considered to be a real danger, i.e. to lead to the most serious measure of diversion in custody. It seems to me that this proposal doesn't make any sense. It does not fit into the idea of art. Art. 63, or respectively in the idea of Art. 63 269. Article 63 provides for the detention of that person on very serious grounds, namely where it is possible to make a reasoned assumption that he would commit another crime and conceal himself. In addition, Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) is replaced by the following: 269 provides that the absence of this person does not prevent the finding of objective truth, that is to say, we are in a completely different hypothesis. The idea of one text is that the absence should not interfere with the development of production, the idea of the other text is to detain a potentially dangerous person who can avoid justice. Mixing these two institutes is the least difficult to explain in terms of the logic of the entire Code and the logic of the process as it is written and developed. It has nothing to do with the initial motives why we are looking at this important Bill today. Please put the proposal for a new § 9 to the vote separately as we of the BSP parliamentary group will oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, Dear Mr. Zarkov. Indeed, this text has sparked a serious debate in the Legal Commission. We argued long and hard, arguing whether this presumption or fiction, which is governed by this rule, corresponds to objective life truth. In this regard, the debate has largely escalated. In order to clarify the case of the respected Members of the National Assembly, and to put it simply, the following: if the person is absent and charged in absentia, i.e. an absent person, does this mean the assumption, assumption, presumption of the existence of a risk to deviate from prosecution, respectively such a risk as to justify the imposition of the measure Our position of the Members of the National Assembly was that this assumption was justified. The position of the representatives of the Supreme Court of Cassation, in view of the practice of that court, was that each particular case should be assessed separately and no further presumption should be allowed in this regard. We present to your attention that you judge and make a decision on this matter. I personally believe that if an accusation is brought against one person and this accusation is incomplete, that it collects strawberries in England is not a liberating circumstance, but, on the contrary, an indication that there is a danger that the person will deviate from the charge and, respectively, from the possible punishment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Do you have a second line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This is the most serious measure that can be imposed on an accused person, so we need to discuss this issue in more detail and our party will vote against this proposal. There is no way that a person who has been brought up under guard could, without it knowing, be given such a heavy measure. The person may be absent, may not know at all that there is an accusation and therefore not be notified and not appear in pre-trial proceedings and criminal cases. For this reason, I believe that such a measure should not be taken in respect of persons who have not been informed that they have been raised and carried out in part. Such persons may be otherwise treated to be secured in pre-trial proceedings or criminal proceedings. They can be put out a search, but without such a measure being taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Zarkov, please respond to Mr. Kirilov's line, as Mr. Naydenov essentially did not make a line, but agreed with your opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Naydenov, he did steal my coat to a large extent, but I will therefore be very brief, dear Mr. Kirilov. I understand logic, but I cannot accept it, because the presumption that is being created is very severe, namely, that if the accused has not appeared regularly, we must despise his desire to conceal himself. This is a very serious presumption and it does not correspond to those listed in art. 269, para. 3 which is cited in full hypotheses. He may not have been found at the address indicated, may have committed an infringement by changing his address by not informing the relevant authorities. It could be, like you said, abroad. Something so severe cannot be despised, such as the desire to hide from justice, all the more so that, by definition, we are at the level of a defendant,... this person may be completely innocent and to impose on him the most severe measure of integrity and would have very severe consequences after the end of the trial if an acquittal comes into force. That is why I remain in our position, because the hypothesis that you are assuming is one, but dozens of other hypotheses can be assumed, where this plays the opposite role and does not help the development of the process, but on the contrary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, let us proceed here from this hypothesis, from the fundamental in the right maxim, namely the presumption of innocence in a criminal trial. Already in the phase of pre-trial proceedings, he is required to have the most severe measure under guard, and for a very significant period it is two years, honourable Members. What fellow Member Krum Zarkov shared are severe consequences and interference in the legal sphere of this legal entity, which, at this time when the measure is imposed, has not yet been proven to be guilty and accordingly convicted. With an acquittal, the consequences for the Bulgarian state in such a huge period of detention and in practice making this person from the civil turnover as a whole will have very severe consequences. For these reasons, which my colleague Zarkov also mentioned, and my colleague from Volja. I say, we cannot support such a text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 9 with its corresponding content on the Commission report. This was, in fact, the paragraph that has been the subject of the debate so far for the creation of a new § 9 with its corresponding content on the Report. Vote 119 MPs: 77 against 42 abstentions. Paragraph 9 of the Commission report has been adopted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 8, 10, 11, 12 and 13 on the Commission report the texts of the importer, fully supported by the Committee on Legal Affairs. They voted 111 MPs: 98 against 13, no abstentions. Paragraphs 8, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u80	Proposal from the MPs Kirilov, Fikirliyska, Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 81, para. 3 after the word "supplied" or "supplied" shall be added within one month. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u81	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 14, with its corresponding content on the report, as well as paragraphs 15, 16 and 17 on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 123 MPs: 93, none, abstention 30. Paragraphs 14 to 17 including the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u82	Proposal from the MPs Kirilov, Fikerliyska, Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 127 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." So far, text becomes para. 1 and finally a comma is placed in it and the audit acts establishing tax obligations and obligations for compulsory insurance are added. contributions and the audit reports attached to them, as well as the reports under art. 19 of the State Financial Inspection Act of financial inspections carried out and audit reports under art. 56 of the Law on the Court of Auditors and the documents attached thereto. 2. The creation of para. 2: The prosecution and the sentence cannot be based solely on the data of the audit acts, the reports under art. 19 of the State Financial Inspection Act, audit reports under art. 56 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the reports on the investigations of the European Anti-Fraud Office and the documents attached thereto. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u83	You have the floor of speech, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u84	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, I will speak relatively briefly under § 18. A parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is not going to support it, as we believe that this is an unnecessary text that further complicates and aggravates the Law itself. What do I mean? It is proposed to supplement the written evidence with revision documents establishing tax obligations and obligations for compulsory social security contributions and so on. I don't know why, but extra force is being passed on to these evidences, based on the fact that they are all disproveable as they are subject to judicial review. At the same time as this para. 2 makes it clear that the sentence cannot rest only on these additional evidence, with which para. 2 makes no sense. 1. For this reason, we will not support him. We believe that now the existing text solves all our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. - What's the line? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 18 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 126 MPs: 91, against 32, abstention 3. Paragraph 18 of the Commission report has been adopted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 19 to 22, including on the Commission's report. They voted 123 MPs: for 123, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 19 to 22, including the Commission report, have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u86	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 149 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 6 and para. 7. When the fine under para. 5 is imposed by an authority of pre-trial proceedings, the order shall be appealed to the first instance court concerned within three days of the notice of its imposition. (7) The order of the court by which he refuses to cancel a fine under para. 5, subject to appeal under Chapter Twenty-Two. 2. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 8 and in it the words that are located outside the country and the commas before and after them are deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u87	Are there any speeches? No. I shall put to the vote § 23 in the version of the Commission, in accordance with its report. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 23 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u88	Under § 18 "Proposition of the People's Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 174 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. The first sentence shall be replaced by the words of the Member State concerned for the offences committed by the Member State concerned, after the word "Preliminarily" shall be added to all participants, including persons and witnesses under art. 12, para. 2 and 3 of the Special Entrepreneurship Act and the third sentence is deleted. 2. In para. A sentence 6 shall first be replaced by the words................................................................. is replaced by....................................................................................................................................................................................... 12, para. 2 and 3 of the Special Entrepreneurship Act. The second sentence is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u89	Give her the rest of the paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u90	Just one second, Mr. Chairman, let's check the provisions. Mr President, honourable Members, the Commission supports the text of the importer for § 19, which becomes § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20 which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u91	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 24 to 29, including on the Commission's report. They voted 121 MPs: 114, none, abstention 7. Paragraphs 24 to 29, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u92	Proposal from the MPs Kirilov, Fikirliyska and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission may, by way of derogation from Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, decide to grant aid under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 31. The Commission proposes to create a new § 32: ........................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 235 words.............................................................................. 63, para. This appropriation is The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u93	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u94	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, we will not support the proposed change in art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission may, by way of derogation from Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on First of all, the text itself is not precise. I will read it to you with the supplement: "When the defendant appears without an authorized defender, the investigating authority shall present the investigation to him, as in the cases referred to in art. 94, para. 1 appoint a reserve defender regardless of the mandate of the defender. At the very beginning of the text you see that he does not have a defender, and then at the end of the text appears a defender. At the same time, it is not clear why a defendant, who has several defenders, is usually a practice in very complex cases, should be assigned another backup defender. This, on the one hand, results in significant costs which are then incurred by the accused himself. At the same time, since this defender is appointed in the submission of the materials, when pre-trial proceedings have ended and the main obligation and right of the accused is to familiarize himself with these materials, why should he be assigned a backup defender at this time? Given that until now he did not have a defender, or his defender, the one he chose, for some reason absent, then the reserve defender must make a decision regarding the request of additional evidence and numerous other procedures which give him the law. This is extremely important, as the next phase is being held in the so-called "ordering meeting'. That hearing shall deal with all matters relating to evidence. If the backup defender makes any mistake and is not well prepared, then the defendant will no longer be able to present evidence again and fight for his righteousness. I want to point out something that you need to keep in mind. In the works the truth is not the truth of life that exists, but the truth of the works is the truth closed between the cover of the work. Whatever's inside, this court accepts it's true. Very often, this truth does not correspond to objective truth. I'm extremely afraid of making legal mistakes when an innocent man is convicted, and that's why I'm pointing it out. At the same time, there is a contradiction in the changes proposed subsequently. When it comes to the officers' sittings, art. 247b, we once again write that this defendant, who has already become a defendant, will be appointed a defender in cases under art. 94, para. 1. We once appointed him a backup counsel, next time we have to appoint him another defender. I don't understand the whole thing, and I don't think the whole text is precise. That's why we won't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Popov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u96	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This amendment is in practice done to reduce the proceedings, that is to say, the reserve counsel to be present in the prosecution. At the same time, however, it makes no sense in what you just adopted, namely the possibility to apply the measure in custody within two years. In practice, this will stimulate slow pre-trial proceedings, i.e. pre-trial proceedings, put in another language, your two years will lead to pre-trial proceedings. Here the opposite, you want the prosecution to be brought quickly, but purely on a formal basis only this backup defender will be present only in this phase of the pre-trial process and then in the trial. However, this will deprive the defendant and the defendant of the opportunity to organise his defence in a timely manner. In addition, from now on, after the prosecution has been brought, a number of deadlines and opportunities have begun for the defendant to carry out certain procedural actions. If they are not carried out at this time or at a short time after the prosecution has been brought, he shall further lose that right in proceedings. On the other hand, this results in significant other costs to the defendant subsequently and in the case of a defender appointed by the court. He didn't choose him, he didn't want him, he didn't seek him, he even appointed another defender, he authorized him to do so, and at the same time, the state practically appointed him an additional backup defender just so that the charges could be brought to him. The prosecution will be brought, but before the defender, if he has decided and authorized such a defender to represent him and lead the process in the next phase, namely in the judicial phase. This defendant, who is authorised by the accused, should be very well aware of the entire case of pre-trial proceedings, then of whether substantial procedural infringements have been committed, whether or not they have been committed or not. The appearance of only proforma to bring the prosecution of a lawyer to the accused will, in our view, simply lead to severe consequences as to the inability to organise adequate protection by the accused, who is still innocent at this time due to the presumption of innocence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Naydenov, but let it be after the break. Thirty minutes to rest. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u98	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Mr. Naydenov, come in, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u99	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, political party Volja. will not support the proposal for the reserve defender. The reserve counsel is determined by the Bar Association, but when the defendant sees his reserve counsel, he can state: I do not want this reserve counsel, I know him and I have heard negative words about him and I believe that he will not properly defend my defence position. So he may not accept it and the investigating authority cannot carry out its planned investigative action and I consider it completely pointless. In addition, whether he will accept it or not, it will certainly be charged to pay the costs of his appearance to the judicial authority, or the court will determine to pay the costs, so that this will be an additional burden for the accused. Therefore, we will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u101	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Several texts have been reported at once, some of which we will support. Of course, we will not support § 18, but please put it to a separate vote and § 32 "new' because it contains a reference to art. 63, which we have changed by § 9, which we have opposed, to have the opportunity to vote against....... and............... and................................. and......................................... and..........
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u102	Okay. [[Heckling]] Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 30 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 85 MPs: 57 against 26, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 30 is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Many colleagues are still entering the Chamber and have failed to vote. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u104	It's a re-vote. They voted 116 MPs: for 76, against 40, there is no abstention. Paragraph 30 of the Commission report has been adopted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 32 with its corresponding content on a report. Vote 131 MPs: 93 against 37, abstention 1. Paragraph 32 of the Commission report has been adopted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 31 and 33 on the Commission report. They voted 136 MPs: 97 against 15, abstentioned 24. Paragraphs 31 and 33 have been adopted. On behalf of the political party's parliamentary group Volja "The word for a declaration" has the people representative Plamen Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take advantage of my right to address you on behalf of a parliamentary group to remind you that, on 6 July, we addressed an official letter to all the parliamentary groups asking you to support our Constitutional Amendment Bill in relation to the removal of the immunities of the Members of the National Assembly. Each of the political parties or parliamentary groups here in their media appearances through their representatives quite cordially support such an initiative, such an idea. For the moment, however, only 12 people have signed under our bill and they are from our political party. I hope that in the remaining two days and today the third day, we will be able to get the support of at least 60 people from you, thus hoping that we will be able to show both ourselves and the Bulgarian people that we are not afraid to remain immune and that we do not need it, and that what we are talking about is not only for the media. However, if someone is worried about signing under our bill in our room, I express my willingness on behalf of my colleagues to personally visit him at a convenient place to give him the Signature Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Mr. Kirilov, if you'd like to proceed with the report, please..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before § 26 by importer, may I request an editorial clarification in relation to § 24 by importer, where, first and second, the text in para. The 5th sentence first of all is a technical error and must be replaced by the........................................................................................... is actually a technical error and must be....................................................................................................................................................... This is in both cases................................................................................................... 1 and c. 2 in the text proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u108	What paragraph are you talking about? Did you say § 24 by importer or by the Commission report?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u109	Paragraph 24 on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u110	Paragraph 24 on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u111	The first and second points of the words are written....................................................................................................... To be
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u112	Both places. Firstly, let us return to § 24 on the Commission's report. Please vote. They voted 143 MPs: 137, against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the proposals in the first and second points in the statement of.................................................................................................... The expression to be made in terms of both the point of both the first and the point of fertilizer. Please vote. They voted 137 MPs: for 102, against 1, abstention 34. The proposals have been accepted. We are voting on § 24 on the Commission report with the newly adopted additions to the first and second points. 140 MPs voted: 103, against 34, abstention 3. Paragraph 24 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u113	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 34: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 243 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: In the event of termination of the criminal proceedings on the grounds of Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers, the Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 24, para. 1, t. 1 on the grounds that the act constitutes an administrative infringement, the prosecutor shall forward the materials together with the physical evidence of competence of the relevant administrative punishing authority. 2. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words "seven days" shall be replaced by "one month." 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6. 5. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 6. Previously on AMC's... 7 " 10" became respectively. 8.. 11............ 11.................................. The Commission proposes to create a new § 35: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 246, para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / /
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u114	You have the floor to speak. There aren't any. I shall put to the vote § 34 and § 35 on the Commission report. Paragraph 35 "Commission proposal to create a new one with its corresponding content on the report. We are voting on paragraphs 34 and 35 on the Commission report. They voted 151 MPs: 111, against 3, abstention 37. Paragraphs 34 and 35 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u115	Under § 27, there is a proposal from the MPs Kirilov, Fikirliyska and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Christian Mitev in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Kirilov, Fikerliyska, Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Christian Mitev in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 27, but on the basis of art. 50, para. 1 of the Decree on the implementation of the Law on Legislative Acts, proposes that § 27 be divided into paragraphs 36 to 46 by the following wording: ................................ 36.................................................. The name of Chapter 19 is amended as follows: § 37. In Chapter Nineteen, the names § 38. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, t. 2 indents and the words "with the order of the President of the Court" shall be deleted. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. § 39. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) From 247a to 247c: "Determining a Judge Reporter and examination of the case's conviction Art. 247a. (1) A Judge-Rapporteur shall be appointed after the case has been brought. (2) When the Judge-Rapporteur finds that the case is brought to justice: 1. schedule the case initiated under an indictment in an officer's hearing within two months of its entry, and where it is factual or legal complexity, as well as in other exceptional cases, the President of the Court may, in writing, authorise the hearing to be fixed within a period specified by him, but not more than three months; 2. exercise the powers referred to in Article 2. 250-252, when the case was filed on the victim's sadness. (3) The Judge-Rapporteur shall terminate the proceedings when he finds that the case is not brought to trial. Announcement of the authorising officer's appointment Art. 247b. (1) A copy of the indictment shall be served on the defendant upon the order of the Judge-Rapporteur. The delivery of the indictment to the defendant shall be notified of the postponement of the hearing and of the questions under art. OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1, for his right to appear with a defender and for the possibility to be appointed to him a defender in the cases under art. 94, para. 1 and that the case can be dealt with and resolved in its absence under the conditions of art. 269. (2) For the hearing and for the questions under art. OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1 shall be notified to the Prosecutor and the Defender, as well as to the victim or his heirs and to the injured legal person to whom the right to authorise a charge is notified. (3) Within 7 days of the service of the communication, the prosecutor and the persons under para. 1 and 2 may answer the questions discussed at the hearing and make their requests. (4) Within 7 days of the service of the communication, the victim or his successors may make requests for a constitution as a private prosecutor and a civil plaintiff, and the injured legal person as a civil plaintiff. (5) The Judge-Rapporteur shall enable the persons who may participate in the hearing to become acquainted with the materials of the case and to make the necessary extracts. Participants in the hearing Art. 247c. (1) The hearing shall be postponed when it does not appear: 1. the prosecutor; 2. the defendant, if his appearance is mandatory, except in cases of art. 269, para. 3; 3. the defender - in cases under art. 94, para. 1. (2) The absence of the victim or his heirs and the injured legal person without due cause shall not prevent the hearing. (3) The hearing shall not be postponed if the victim or his heirs, as well as the injured legal person, have not been found at their address for calling in the country. § 40. Article 248 is amended as follows: supposed questions in the oral hearing Art. 248. (1) The following questions shall be discussed in the hearing: 1. Is the trial of the court; 2. is there grounds for termination or suspension of criminal proceedings; 3. whether the pre-trial proceedings have been allowed to remedy a material breach of procedural rules resulting in a limitation of the procedural rights of the accused, of the victim or of his heirs; 4. are there grounds for examining the case in accordance with the specific rules; 5. the examination of the case closed, the involvement of a reserve judge or jury, the appointment of a defender, expert, translator or translator and the carrying out of investigative actions by delegation; 6. the measures taken for procedural coercion; 7. requests for the collection of new evidence; 8. the postponement of the hearing and the persons to be called for it. (2) The Court shall decide on the requests made for the formation of parties to the proceedings. (3) At a hearing of the first instance, the appeals and the court of Cassation shall not object to the infringement of the procedural rules under para. 1, t. 3 who have not been put to discussion in the hearing, including by order of the Judge-Rapporteur, or who have been accepted as non-essential. (4) No infringements relating to the admission, collection, verification and evaluation of evidence and evidence shall be discussed in the hearing. (5) After hearing the prosecutor and the persons under art. 247b, para. 1 and 2 the court shall rule by order by which: 1. terminate the proceedings; 2. terminate the criminal proceedings; 3. stop the criminal proceedings; 4. schedule the case and notify the persons who appear where there are no grounds for its examination in accordance with Chapter Twenty-Seven, Chapter Twenty-eighth and Chapter Twenty-ninth, or where he has found obvious factual errors in the indictment. (6) The order shall be announced in the hearing. § 41. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 248a: "Remove obvious factual errors" in the indictment Art. 248a. (1) Where the court finds obvious factual errors in the indictment, it shall set a 7-day period within which the prosecutor shall remove them. (2) The Judge-Rapporteur shall, in a closed session, revoke the order to postpone the case and terminate the proceedings if the Prosecutor does not submit an indictment within the time limit laid down in para. 1 or has not removed the obvious factual errors. The order is not subject to appeal or protest. (3) A copy of the order of the Judge-Rapporteur shall be sent to the parties and the persons summoned shall be notified. § 42. Article 249 is amended as follows: The Court of Justice shall terminate the proceedings. Art. 249. (1) The court shall terminate the proceedings in the cases of art. OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1, t. 1 and 3. (2) When the proceedings are terminated on the basis of art. OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1, t. 3, the court returns the case to the prosecutor, specifying by definition the offences committed. In such cases, the prosecutor shall remedy the procedural offences committed under Article 3. 242, starting a new period of time from receipt of the case. (3) The definition referred to in art. OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1, t. 3 and 6, as well as the refusal of the court under art. OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 2 to allow a private prosecutor to be subject to appeal and protest under the order of chapter twenty-two. (4) An infringement of procedural rules shall be material and permanent where the rights of: 1. to learn about what crime is attracted to this quality; to give or refuse to give explanations on the charge; to participate in the proceedings; to have a defender and to receive a written or oral translation into an understandable language under art. 55, para. 3 when he does not speak the Bulgarian language; 2. the victim or his successors to be informed of the formation of pre-trial proceedings; to be informed of his rights and to participate in the proceedings; to receive a translation of the order for termination or suspension of criminal proceedings if he does not speak the Bulgarian language. (5) The Court shall forward the case to the upper instance after the expiry of the term under art. 248a, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. § 43. Article 250 is amended as follows: Criminal proceedings shall be terminated by the Court of Justice. Art. 250. (1) The Court shall terminate the criminal proceedings: 1. in the cases referred to in Article 1. 24, para. 1, t. 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 8a, 9 and 10, and when the proceedings are initiated on the sadness of the victim and in the cases referred to in art. 24, para. 5; 2. where the act described in the indictment or in the grievance constitutes an administrative infringement. (2) When the criminal proceedings are terminated, the court shall rule on the matter of material evidence and revoke the measures imposed on the accused for procedural coercion, as well as the measure to secure the civil action, if the grounds for its imposition have been terminated. In the case of para. 1, t. 3 the court shall forward the case together with the material evidence of competence of the relevant administrative punishing authority. (3) A copy of the order for termination of the criminal proceedings for a crime which is prosecuted on the grievance of the victim shall be served to the private mourner and to the accused. (4) The order shall be subject to appeal and protest under the order of Chapter twenty-first. § 44. Article 251 is amended as follows: "Stop the criminal proceedings by the court Art. 251. (1) The court shall suspend the criminal proceedings in the cases referred to in art. 25, para. 1, t. 1-3 and para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 26. (2) The Court shall rule on measures of procedural coercion. (3) The Court shall also revoke the measure to secure the civil action if the reason for its imposition is terminated. (4) A copy of the order for suspension of criminal proceedings for a criminal offence which is prosecuted by the victim's grief shall be served on the private mourner and on the defendant. (5) The order shall be subject to appeal and protest under the order of Chapter twenty-two. § 45. Article 252 is amended as follows: "Preparation of the hearing Art. 252. (1) Where there are grounds for examination of the case under the order of Chapter twenty-nine, and at the request of the parties, and in the order of Chapter twenty-seventh and twenty-eighth, the court shall examine the case immediately after the hearing is held. (2) Where there are no grounds for examination of a case brought under an indictment, in accordance with Chapter twenty-seven, Chapter twenty-eighth and Chapter twenty-nine, the hearing shall be set within one month of the hearing. (3) The persons who do not attend the hearing shall be informed of the delay of the hearing. (4) The Judge-Rapporteur shall schedule within one month the proceedings which have been initiated on the grievance of the injured proceedings, where there are grounds for its examination at a hearing. A copy of the order and of the grievance shall be served on the defendant by informing him of the date of the hearing and that the case may be dealt with and resolved in his absence under the conditions of art. 269. Within seven days of the delivery of the documents, the defendant may respond to his objections and make new requests. Dear Mr. Chairman, I would like to make an editorial proposal regarding the provision of art. 252 in the version, as proposed by the Commission, in para. 2. Because Al. 2 of § 40 of the report must correspond to art. OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 5, t. 4 It should therefore be added after the words "Chapter twenty-nine', or when he found obvious and factual errors in the indictment. This will give a match to the text of art. OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 5, t. 4 with this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u116	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u117	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, we will not support the text of art. 248. Our reasons are as follows, and they are found in paragraphs 3 and 4. First of all, there is no discussion of infringements relating to admission, collection, verification and evaluation of evidence and evidence, which means that all that has been collected so far from pre-trial proceedings cannot be debated in this sitting and no further requests can be made on it. At the same time, the Court of First Instance and the Court of Cassation shall not object to any infringement committed relating to procedural rules. Very often, for some reason, for example, on the defendant, violence has been imposed, with which his explanations have been taken down, he, for some reason, his own personal reasons, does not want to admit this thing. It appears at a later stage of the judicial investigation. We, with this hearing, re-create any possibility to review these initial opinions. I have told you before that many things lie between the cover of the case, and if no evidence has been claimed at the hearing, which subsequently appears new evidence or newly discovered evidence, it cannot be used. There are great concerns about the admission of judicial errors. In law, it is considered much better not to convict a few guilty than to convict an innocent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u119	Dear Mr. President, colleagues, I will continue from where my colleague has finished, I will take account of the next § 42 where we are offered a new version of art. 249. We do not accept the editing of the new para. 4 and I'll explain why. The court is currently entitled, which is also normal, to assess in each particular case which infringements are essential for the particular case. The importer and the Commission are now in favour of this proposal, giving precise hypotheses as to what is a particular material procedural infringement. This norm also sparked a dispute in the Legal Committee, where I expressed my opinion. I now maintain that, in any particular case, an infringement may have had a significant impact on the wrongness of action. Therefore, in our view, we do not need to state in the law which violation a priori is essential and what is not. Therefore, we will not support the text of 249. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, I will be very brief. In the Legal Committee, we have heard the arguments of colleagues, and I would not say that there has been an argument. In practice, the proposed version repeats decision No 2 of the Supreme Court of Cassation of 2002. Dear colleagues, you will say: "Why? " This interpretive Decision No 2, which was not then contested, was waiting for it to overcome cases where, for one reason or another, legitimate or unfounded, the courts returned to pre-trial proceedings, assessing that they were material infringements, and it turns out that they were not quite so substantial or are exclusal in the judicial phase. I would like to remind you that the pre-trial phase, in the new PPC, unlike then the existing one, in fact the concept says that pre-trial proceedings are the preparatory phase, and the actual phase is in the legal proceedings. So, yes, there are hypotheses when you could really come back from a pre-trial phase. In the particular case, the interpretation of Decision No 2 was not contested, it was waiting and it really brought some sort of order into the promiscuous return of cases. We had, at the expense of this very judgmental verdict in court for delaying proceedings from pre-trial, including in the judicial phase, so I call: support this text. It does repeat the interpretation of Decision No 2. I will say this once again: since 2002, entering as a text in the Law, this means that judges will have to comply, because there are still cases when cases are returned in pre-trial phase. I do not wish to give examples, such were submitted very soon in the verification which was carried out under the mechanism, if I am not mistaken by fifteen or I do not remember exactly how many cases of cases which have been returned to the pre-trial phase, the Court of Appeal dismissed these returns in twelve cases. This is what we are talking about when we are going to talk about speed, let's talk about speed both in the pre-trial phase and in the judicial phase where the real phase is, and then the rights of the defendant can be protected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u123	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Lazarov, you are right. We do not deny the existence of the problem. You are right to mention and interpretive Decision No 2, which aimed to unify a diverse practice. These were also the reasons for proposing this text by importers, namely the existence of diverse and contradictory practices. Our thesis, however, is that this is about something different. It is not a conflicting practice, but a different practice derived from the discretion of the court to assess when, in which case a procedural infringement is materially inadmissible. And this is not contrary to the interpretation of the case which you correctly mentioned that you brought order. I do not see why this already introduced order should be changed, and the change is essential, because as the text is written, it implicitly says when such a procedural violation is essential and when not if it comes out of these hypotheses. Truth and reality show that a violation of procedural rights may be materially neutral in one case and may not be in another. It is this discretion of the court that is taken here, and it is it that we oppose. We don't deny the problem that exists.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Lazarov, I asked for a reply to ask you what might be part of it and colleague Zarkov tried to answer: why, what is the problem? What is the problem with codifying the criteria as referred to in Decision No 2. Why was that roaring debate at the Legal Committee?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u126	Third line, Mr. Stoyanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u127	I think we're talking about different things. All the parliamentary groups in the Commission were united by the idea, and I suppose here, in this House, that there is a need to speed up criminal proceedings. In this case, what I have raised as a question is the inability to collect further evidence after the hearing.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We are not talking about returning the case to pre-trial proceedings, although in some cases this is also an option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. A hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, the lines have practically confirmed my thesis as well. No one denies that in this text it is actually signed in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which interprets Decision No 2 of 2002, which no one has contested. I don't want to go into the theoretical dredges and go back to how much interpretation of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the civil colleges, was the criminal colleges, the idea, the purpose of which is to align the practice, how much would you write the Law? It's more normal for me, it's very theoretical, and it's a long argument. There are many practices and theories when we go back, but there is nothing abnormal and my colleagues, replicating me, also said that yes, are practically the texts of the interpretive Decision No 2. And, otherwise, let me note, fellow Members, that all acts of the court, including in what is now referred to as the hearing, are subject to judicial institutional review before and in a judicial phase.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House. I would also like to draw attention to the wording of § 38. 247, where it is proposed that, under the distress of victims of the crime, automatic proceedings should be initiated and not as is now the case with the order of the President of the Court. I consider this text inappropriate, for the simple reason that this crack, which was created by the legislator in the adoption of the current Criminal Procedure Code, is intended to make an initial very simple examination of the admissibility of the act concerned, as the grief of a private person may not meet the most basic conditions for its examination. I don't find any logic in canceling this text. It is about a resolution that has nothing to contribute to the faster process. In the original version of the importers, the court-chairman was replaced by the judge-holder, as I recall, in which possible logic could be found. The way it is referred now, namely to automatically form this production and with the change of the next text art. 248,, where practically disappears the requirement for the President of the Court to designate the Judge-Rapporteur, we are actually creating an opportunity for a problem because, in fact, most likely, what is happening that the President of the Court, since there is no one else, will again designate the Judge-Rapporteur with the resolution in which it will have to say why this case cannot be considered for absolute elementary things. I find this proposal inappropriate, which is why we oppose it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u132	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote § 38 on the Commission report. There are 123 MPs voting: 91, against 32, no abstentions. Paragraph 38 of the Commission Report has been adopted. I shall put to the vote § 42 on the Commission report. 122 MPs vote: 96 against 26 abstentions. Paragraph 42 of the Commission Report has been adopted. I put to the vote the proposal made by the parliamentary tribune by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, in § 45, art. 252, para. 2 after the expression "Chapter twenty-nine, let's add "or" when he has found obvious factual errors in the indictment. Please vote on the proposal made. There are 122 MPs voting: 99 against 1, abstention 22. The proposal made for § 45 of the parliamentary tribune is accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 36, 37, 39, 40, 41 and § 43 to § 46, including by voting on the proposal already made and adopted by us. We vote § 36, 37, 39, 40, 41 and § 43 to § 45, including. The vote is 121 MPs: 99, none, abstention 22. Paragraphs up to 45 including, with the change submitted and adopted, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u133	§ 46. In Chapter Nineteen, Section II, of Art. Article 254 257, canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u134	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 46 on the Commission report. There are 122 MPs voting: for 103, there is no abstention 19. Paragraph 46 of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u135	Paragraph 28. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 47. ss ss s s s s s In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 260 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In the title, the word "dangerous' is replaced by "driving'. 2. In para. 1 the word "Securities' is replaced by "Securities'. 3. In para. 2 the word "Securities' is replaced by "Securities'. 4. In para. 3 the word "Securities" is replaced by "Securities."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u136	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote § 48 on the Commission report. The vote is 121 MPs: 114 against 6, abstention 1. Paragraph 47 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u137	§ 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 48. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 49. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 50. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 2. Alinea 6 is canceled. 3. In para. 11 A sentence is created second: The order of the court with which he refuses to cancel the fine may be appealed and protested under the order of chapter twenty-two.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u138	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 48 to 51, including on the Commission's report. Vote 128 MPs: for 127, against 1, no abstentions. Paragraphs 48 to 51, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u139	The Commission proposes to create a new § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 272, para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / Proposal from the MPs Kirilov, Fikirliyska and Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 276, para. 1 after the words
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u140	This is § 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u141	Yeah, it was § 53. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33 which shall become § 54. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 55. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 56.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u142	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! I would like to make a statement under § 53 and be voted on separately. In the proposal made by the importers there is one change that from the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) we will not support, and our reasons are as follows. A proposal for a change of art shall be made. 276, para. 1 which reads: "The hearing shall be led by the President of the Chamber and shall begin by reading the final part of the prosecutor's indictment in cases of general character and so on. At the moment, the entire indictment is being read, not just its closing part. The proposed amendment, unfortunately, will delay criminal proceedings, and will not speed it up as its purpose is. Also, the sentences issued will give grounds for an attack even on international institutions. What do I mean? When you read only the final part of the indictment, you have to be a certain professional to understand what it's about. For example, the accusation would be as follows that the defendant is accused of violating art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the amount of aid referred to in Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be calculated on the basis of the following formula: 1. How many of you are talking to something I just said? Namely, it's a DUI with a blood alcohol concentration of over 1.2 per thousand. On the other hand, not everyone can have such a rich common and legal culture. I also want to add that para. 3 remains and will not be changed, namely, the judge will ask the defendant if he understands what he is accused of and is normally accused to say that he does not understand. It is therefore necessary to read the entire indictment and, above all, the specific part that we now wish to jump, as it is possible to make mistakes or to have some false data. And the circumstantial and final part must correspond to each other. All this will lead to conceptual bankruptcy of the filed accusation. For this reason, we will not support the proposed change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 53 together with its corresponding content on the report. They voted 105 MPs: for 89, against 7, abstention 9. Paragraph 53 of the Commission report has been adopted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 52 with its corresponding content on the report, as well as paragraphs 54, 55 and 56. Vote 98 MPs: 96, none, abstention 2. Paragraphs 52, 54, 55 and 56 of the Commission report have been adopted. Proposal for the creation of a new § 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u145	The Commission proposes to create a new § 57: ...... 57............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 289, para. 1 words "al." 4 are replaced by The following points are inserted after point 5 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 61. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 62.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u146	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I take the attitude of § 40, the last one that was put to your attention. It makes a substantial modification of art. 320 of the PPC, namely what the complaint and the protest in the appeal proceedings contain. The text states that no objection may be made to material infringements of procedural rules, with the exception of infringements relating to the admission of evidence or evidence. In our view, this text, as well as its identical twin in the cassation proceedings, also substantially restricts the rules of appeal. Incomprehensible remains why can objections be made only in relation to the evidence? Procedure infringements may be admitted by the Court of First Instance not only within the framework of the collection of evidence, their assessment. In connection with the call, communications and other actions of the court, there may also be substantial procedural violations, all the more so in view of the definition that you have adopted just now, which we have opposed, we also believe that this amendment should not be supported. We're against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Other speeches, too. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 57 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Please vote. 99 MPs voted: 97, none, abstention 2. The proposal to create a new § 57 with the corresponding content of the report has been adopted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 58 to 62, including on the Commission's report. Vote 91 MPs: 87, none, abstention 4. Paragraphs 58 to 62, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u149	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41, which shall become § 63. .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, t. 1 the words "s 2" are replaced by "s 3" is replaced by "s 3" is replaced by "s 3" is replaced by "s 4" is replaced by "s 3" is 2. In para. 2 the words "this chapter" shall be replaced by "the twenty-second chapter." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 64. Paragraph 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43, which shall become § 65.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u150	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 63, 64 and 65 on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraphs 63, 64 and 65 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u151	The Commission proposes to create a new § 66. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 334, t. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 24, para. 1, t. 2 - 8 and 10 and para. 4 as well as when the Court of First Instance has not exercised its authority under Article 4. 369, para. The information referred The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 67. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 68. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 69. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 70. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 71.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u152	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 66, with its corresponding content on the report, as well as paragraphs 67 to 71, including the Commission report. Please vote. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. Paragraphs 66 to 71, including the Commission report, have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u153	Under § 49, there is a proposal from the MPs Kirilov, Fikirliyska and Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 49, which shall become § 72: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 351 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: The Court's appeal and protest cannot object to substantial infringements of the procedural rules in pre-trial proceedings. 2. Previously on AMC's... 2 and 3 become respectively. Three and four. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it in t. 1 the words "s 2" are replaced by "s 3" is replaced by "s 3" is replaced by "s 3" is replaced by "s 4" is replaced by "s 3" is replaced by "s 3" is replaced by "s 4" is replaced by "s 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and in it after the words........................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 73. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 74. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52, which shall become § 75, in which it shall, after the words "art." 357, para. In the text before this entry, the text shall be added to the text. 1..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u154	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! In order not to repeat myself, this is the twin text in the cassation proceedings that I was just telling you about. In the appeal, we adopted such a text, but in the cassation proceedings is the last line of protection of one person, the complaint or the protest, respectively, if the prosecutor protests. So, once again, I urge you not to limit the violations that persons may bring in their cassation complaint or protest by a prosecutor. [[Heckling]] Since procedural infringements may not only be linked to the admission and collection of evidence but to many other actions of the courts. Any citizen may sooner or later turn out to be filing his final cassation complaint. I therefore propose that we do not restrict the procedural rights of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u156	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. You mean § 72, don't you? - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I shall put to the vote § 72 in the version of the Commission. Please vote. Vote 99 MPs: 96 against 2, abstention 1. Paragraph 72 of the Commission report has been adopted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 73, 74 and 75 on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 93 MPs: 90, none, abstention 3. Paragraphs 73, 74 and 75 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u157	Paragraph 53 "A proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Yordanka Fikirliyska and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 53, which shall become § 76: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 358 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 3 Finally, a comma shall be placed and added to limit the procedural rights of the accused under art. 249, para. 4 t. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (b) c. 4 is finally a comma and is added by not holding an administrative meeting under art. 248. 2. A new para is being created. 2: In the cases referred to in para. 1, t. 3 cases cannot be reopened on the same basis. 3. Previously on AMC's... 2 and 3 become respectively. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u158	Statements? I won't. We shall put to the vote § 76 in the version of the Commission, in accordance with its report. They voted 101 MPs: 98 against 3, no abstentions. Paragraph 76 of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u159	Paragraph 54 "A proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Yordanka Fikirliyska and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 54, which shall become § 77: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 359 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word 2. A new para is being created. 2: The Court of Justice shall terminate the proceedings and send the case to the prosecutor concerned where a material violation of the procedural rules resulting in a limitation of the procedural rights of the accused under Article 8 has been ruled out. 249, para. 4 t. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. Previously on AMC's... 2 and 3 become respectively. 3 and 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55, which shall become § 78. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 79.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u160	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 77, 78 and 79 on the Commission report. Vote 98 MPs: 97 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraphs 77, 78 and 79, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u161	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 57 but on the basis of art. 50, para. 1 of the Decree on the implementation of the Law on Legislative Acts, proposes that § 57 be divided into § 80 "83" by the following wording: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The name of Chapter Twenty-Six is hereby amended as follows: § 81. Article 368 is amended as follows: "Establishment of pre-trial proceedings Art. 368. (1) If, in pre-trial proceedings, more than two years and more than six months have elapsed since the involvement of a person as accused of a serious crime, in the other cases, the defendant, the victim and the injured legal person may request that the investigation be speeded up. Those time limits shall not include the time during which the case was in court or was suspended on grounds of art. 25. (2) The request under para. 1 is done through the prosecutor who is obliged to immediately submit the case to the court. (3) The Court of Justice shall rule in closed session within 15 days. § 82. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 368a: The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction in the Member State where the proceedings are brought before the Art. 368a. (1) If more than two years or more than one year have elapsed since the initiation of the proceedings before the first instance, the parties may request an acceleration. This period shall not include the time during which the case was suspended on the basis of art. 25. (2) The request shall be lodged by means of the court dealing with the case. It shall state the non-executed actions which delay the proceedings. (3) The request shall be deemed to be withdrawn if, within one month of the court hearing the case, the relevant action is carried out. (4) In the case of a regional court, the request shall be dealt with by the district court, and in the cases considered by the district court as the first and the first call of appeal by the court of appeal. In the case of the Court of Appeal, the request shall be examined by the Supreme Court of Cassation. (5) After the expiry of the term under para. 3 the Judge-Rapporteur shall send the case together with the request of the competent court, which shall examine it in a Chamber of three Judges in closed session. The Court of Justice shall rule within 7 days with a definition which is not subject to appeal and protest. § 83. Article 369 is amended as follows: The Court of First Instance is hereby held to be the Measures to accelerate criminal proceedings Art. 369. (1) The Court of Justice shall decide, assessing the factual and legal complexity of the case, whether there are delays in carrying out the collection, verification and evaluation of the evidence and evidence and the reasons therefor. (2) Where it finds undue delay, the court shall set an appropriate time limit for the conduct of the actions. The definition is final. (3) New requests for acceleration may be made after the expiry of the term under para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u162	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 80 to 83, including on the Commission's report. They voted 101 MPs: 99, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Paragraphs 80 to 83, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u163	Proposal by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Yordanka Fikirliyska and Anna Alexandrova for the creation of a new § 58. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 84: ss s s s s s s s In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 381, para. 5, t. 3 the words "and type of prison facility" shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u164	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 84 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 84 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, paragraph 58. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 58, which becomes § 85, as in the new para. 2 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u166	We vote § 85 with the replacement of the......................................................................................................... Please vote § 85 on the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 85 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u167	Dear Mr President, before we proceed with § 59, I ask for a procedure to extend the plenary sitting in today's day until the second reading of this draft general bill is closed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u168	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 97 MPs: 94 against 2, abstention 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u169	Paragraph 59. Proposal by the National Representative Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 59, which shall become § 86: ........ 86...................................................................... In Chapter Twenty-ninth, art. is created. 384a: Art. 384a. Pronunciation of the agreement reached with one of the defendants or one of the crimes. Art. 384a. (1) When an agreement has been reached with one of the defendants or for any of the offences after the proceedings have been initiated, the court shall postpone the hearing. (2) Another formation shall be given within 7 days of receipt of the case. (3) The formation of the Court of Justice under para. 1 shall continue the hearing after the ruling on the agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u170	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 86 on the Commission report. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 86 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u171	Paragraph 60. Proposal from the MPs Kirilov, Fikirliyska and Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 60, which shall become § 87: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 411a, al. 1 is created t. 4. "4." Article 201-205, 212, 212a, 219, 220, 224, 225b, 226, 250, 251, 253-253b, 254a, 254b, 256, 282-283a, 285, 287-289, 294, 295, 299, 301-307, 310, 311 and 313 of the Criminal Code carried out by: (a) Members of the National Assembly; (b) members of the Council of Ministers and Deputy Ministers; (c) Chairs of state agencies and state committees, executive directors of executive agencies and their alternates; (d) the Governor of the National Insurance Institute, the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the Executive Director and the Directors of the Territorial Directorates of the National Revenue Agency; (e) the Director of the Customs Agency, customs officers, customs offices and posts; (f) members of the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means; (g) regional governors and deputy governors; (h) Judges, prosecutors and investigators; (i) members of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Chief Inspector and the inspectors of the SJC Inspectorate; (k) Mayors and Deputy Mayors of Municipalities, Mayors and Deputy Mayors of Districts and Chairmans of Municipal Councils.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u172	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u173	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The Bulgarian BSP will not support the proposed version of art. 411, para. 1, t. 4. We believe that the right to seek criminal liability under the post is introduced in the criminal process. That, on the one hand. On the other hand, the Special Court, where the t. 4 is assigned to deal with crimes which are minor, if committed, and in general, which are irrelevant when it comes to investigating the activity concerned. Here's the thing. For example, in art. 310, para. 2 of the Penal Code provides for one year of imprisonment or probation. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 311, para. 2 punishments are the same. A large part of these texts provides for punishment for imprisonment up to three years, which by the application of art. 78a of the Criminal Code criminal prosecution shall be replaced by the imposition of an administrative penalty and the person shall be deemed not to have been convicted. I don't understand why that is. I feel like the Specialized Criminal Court is trying to give him an extra job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u174	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Kirilov! And in the legal doctrine, and from my humble experience so far, I am of the opinion that the court should specialize in the subject matter of the case, just as administrative courts look at certain cases and are specialized in it. This is rather about a particular profession, which, in my opinion, enters into a Coliseum with the Constitution and hides the risk of these texts being declared unconstitutional if they enter the Constitutional Court. You remember the debate at the Legal Committee that formed around why this profession is inside and there is no other. Of course, there were a lot of arguments, a lot of ideas. This led to another proposal to include other professions. This list can be supplemented to infinity, but this, when it comes to criminal law, does not sound very serious, as criminal law is the most severe instrument of the state because it affects the freedom of citizens. So I think we should take this text more seriously, and the debate in Legal Hair suggests that we should work in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u176	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. After him, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u177	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to pay particular attention to the concrete proposal, to the specific texts, including the possible statements regarding the constitutionality of this legislative decision if it is supported. We believe that this legislative decision also complies with the requirements of the Constitution and is fully in line with Decision No 10 of 15 November 2011 in Constitutional Case No 6 of 2011. In this Constitutional case, the Constitutional Court has examined in detail the emergence, establishment of the Specialized Criminal Court. For my fellow Members, I point out that this is about adding competence to the Specialized Criminal Court with cases and investigations that we refer to as corruption crimes committed by high-ranking persons. The Constitutional Court then reasoned very thoroughly, very punctually, very detailedly and, I would say, quite correctly, in each of the details of the establishment of this court. In the analysis between the Specialized and Emergency Court, the Supreme Constitutional Court considered that the Specialized Criminal Court is not an extraordinary court, but it is a Special Court, and that its specialization is proposed to be in view of the subject of the crimes and quality characteristics of the actors, namely crimes committed in an organized criminal group. In this regard, I just want to emphasise, because we have argued a lot about whether it is possible, as a criterion for determining competence, to use the qualities of the child. I would like to present to your attention the following paragraph of the constitutional decision. The criteria for determining the competence of the Specialized Criminal Court are the subject of the case and not the quality of the perpetrator of the crimes. The second criterion is already used in determining the conviction of the military courts and of the Sofia City Court, which considers as the first instance and cases of crimes of general nature committed, please note, committed by persons of immunity or by members of the Council of Ministers according to the undisputed article. 35, para. 3 of the Penal Code. That is, colleagues, the Constitutional Court has explicitly assumed that we can have a differentiation of jurisdiction of a Special Court and, in view of the individual, the quality of the perpetrator, and in the particular proposal we have determined to be persons holding senior positions, which are punctually, Casuistically, were specifically listed in the text, which I have just read of your attention from the tribune. For this reason, we believe that this proposal is constitutional and we propose to the MPs to support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u178	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Zarkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Bulgaria is becoming a champion of specialized bodies. The practice has been necessary since 2005, it is not new when something is not going, it is specialized, but it does not go better in general. This text really deserves attention, and I am also grateful to the President of the Legal Commission for talking to it, because at first reading it was very clearly stated that the working group, which has prepared many of the texts on today's PPC, especially those relating to accelerated production and those who need to save time in the process, had not seen these proposals. That is, the statement from the first reading and in the reasons of the Bill to its first reading that you see, this is the product of some preliminary work, are not entirely reliable. Of course, importers have the right to make the proposal that has been made, but it has not been discussed and as if it does not meet support among many of the expert community or at least this is how most of the opinions posted on the Commission's website show. Essentially, yes, the defendant's specialized quality is not unconstitutional in itself. This has already been mentioned in the Sofia City Court and, by the way, it is not repealed by the current provision. In other words, those persons who are listed here will be tried by both the Sofia City Court and the Specialized Court, if they enter one of the Chambers which are listed, let us admit honestly, without any particular logic or principle, or at least it was not clear why exactly these Chambers and not others, as it did not become clear and why these officials rather than others. An analogy was made in the process of the discussions and with the various proposals that entered with the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions, but this analogy did not withstand the logic of the Bill. The logic of the Bill, as presented at first reading, was to sue for corruption senior state officials.. understand MPs and ministers in the Specialized Court. And that logic could be involved in a more comprehensive policy of a single, special anti-corruption body, of separation, of usurping all the repressive power of the state on this problem that no one is questioning. Only this can't be traced here. Various texts have been listed for officials, for various things, a rather serious list is also listed, which makes some of my colleagues and observers think that it is really looking to take up time and work of the Specialized Court, which, by the way, we need to mention in order to be correct, meets good words especially in the European Commission's report on what we have done so far. And here's the question, why, since this machine is just starting to work, we are making this cardinal because the change is cardinal. The answers can be many, but we as legislators and no matter what we think about the work of courts, we need to think about the meaning: who should judge according to clearly defined principles, policies, ideas, and not who would judge better. For if we think according to the principle: who better to judge, then one of the lines that exchanged in the Legal Commission, namely, that if it is bad for us, see, it is good that it does not end up being better for us. To be cleared of all these doubts, we must, with clear principles and much more justified, do one such examination. Regarding constitutionality, indeed we are also familiar with this case and a quote for the quote: in that case, which followed the establishment at the beginning of the Specialized Court, was provided for another Order of art. 411a, al. 4 then, which, in order to be correct, concerns the possibility that other persons who have different accusations, but one of them falls within the scope of the court to be tried on it, and it is dismissed because the Constitutional Court says: it is incompatible with the idea of establishing a Specialized Criminal Court on Matter and not by subject. That is, the original idea of this court, the one that has been subject to both constitutional investigation and a very difficult debate, most of you remember it, some of which have been involved in it, is that this court be qualified and specialized in matter, as is the logic of the various laws of which it is intertwined. Because, once again, we didn't invent this ourselves, but we copied a foreign law by foreign model, which was then quite modern. I'm sorry, I'm done, but we'll be against this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u180	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, dear Mr. Zarkov! I have no doubt that you will be opposed to the text and that you will not support it, but I will try in the short time of reply simply to remove some of the not particularly accurate interpretations about the debate in the Legal Committee. But first, I'll start with the report. Very please do not insert into that matrix in which the Legal Committee is put in, that these are proposals of the three MPs. Please see the text in the report, see that this is also the importer's proposal regarding the new specialization of the Specialized Criminal Court. And the crimes are the same, and the persons are 90% the same as at the second reading in the Legal Committee the debate on the persons went in the direction of adding mayors, deputy mayors, the presidents of the municipal councils, as well as the members of the CONPI Commission. So, very please, this is an element of that one-year-old, to call it an expert debate, which was in the main working group that took place and took place. Regarding the quote on the particular case. Let us from the exception, because this is the ruling of the Constitutional Court on exceptions, let us not draw a general conclusion! And I'd like to point out that we're not looking for a Special Court job, we're looking for a specialization. You yourself said that this court is getting more and more serious support and that it has proved itself in this capacity. Since we have a large group of cases that are particularly significant, and we have the opportunity to specialize there, we should look for and achieve specialization in this vessel and in this matter. Time's up, so I'm limiting myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u182	Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u183	Dear Mr. Kirilov, I have not done innuendo. What I am saying is that the work of the working group, which has produced a great deal of the proposals for accelerated proceedings and other procedural changes that we are making, can be traced. I stressed that the importers in this case, the Council of Ministers, has the right to submit what it wants to propose, but it has not been the subject of a long and serious public debate. That's what I say most responsiblely. I'm not going into a constitutional dispute. I do not claim that it is unconstitutional to limit and specialize in an entity, only what kind of specialization can be involved in such a menu of criminal groups, which practice with other such lists shows? From now on, it will be periodically supplemented, something will be removed, it will be removed, both with the lists of people who are subject to this procedure and with the compositions that are... So far, things have been clear.. this Specialized Court is a specialist in one particular matter. Now things are getting blurry and I sincerely doubt that this will benefit the Bulgarian justice and its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u184	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In a nutshell: we are here against the principle itself, honourable Members, to be tried not in the light of the composition of the crime, not in the light of the act itself as such, namely in order to take up a particular position. Taking up a particular position and committing a crime is a qualifying composition within the meaning of the Penal Code, but it is not only on the basis of who has taken what position to be subjected to more special measures in the judicial phase, i.e. this Specialized Court to look at his cases. And here, very Casually, these are the provisions. Notice, here at point (d) is the Director of Customs offices and offices. Do you know how many state posts there are in Bulgaria at the moment when civil servants have much more powers and opportunities to commit crimes than the director of customs posts? And if we all have to list them in the Penal Procedure Code, it will become a farm. It is pointless to fall into this casework in the Code of Criminal Procedure. For these reasons, we cannot support this casework, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u186	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I shall put to the vote § 87 on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 118 MPs: 79, against 38, abstention 1. Paragraph 87 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u187	Proposal of the MPs Kirilov, Fikirliyska and Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 88. ...... 88............................................................................ A new article shall be created. 411 years: "The time limit for carrying out the investigation in cases brought before the specialized criminal court and the measures of procedural coercion Art. 411. (1) The investigation shall be carried out and the case shall be sent to the prosecutor no later than one year from the day of its formation. (2) The prosecutor may set a shorter deadline. If this period is not sufficient, it may continue until the expiry of the term under para. 1. (3) Under the factual and legal complexity of the case, the prosecutor may extend the period under para. One to six months. If that period is not sufficient, the administrative head of the relevant prosecution or a prosecutor authorised by him may extend it at the request of the monitoring prosecutor. Each extension may not be more than three months. (4) The reasoned request for extension shall be sent before the expiry of the time limits under para. 1-3. (5) The measures taken with regard to the defendant for procedural coercion as well as the measure to secure the civil action, if the reason for its imposition is terminated, shall be revoked by the prosecutor after more than two years of the attraction in cases of serious crime and more than one year in the other cases. Those deadlines shall not include the time during which criminal proceedings have been suspended by the prosecutor on the basis of art. 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u188	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u189	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Here already, the debate that we had a moment ago about the previous text takes on quite different dimensions, because since the arguments from the previous text, let's say there are............................. a constitutional solution that we can read, paragraphs and paragraphs to throw at, here my things are very clear. By the way, we are already talking about a proposal between first and second readings tabled by a group of MPs, which is essential and which was not subject to discussion, and in my opinion, at least my opinion, insufficiently motivated. We are talking about a substantial deviation from the general rules of the process when we stand before this court. I'm telling you because he's talking about us. And what does the constitutional case we talked about just now tell us? The question then put to the Constitutional Court is: is this a special court or an emergency? And the difference is huge because an extraordinary court on the Bulgarian Constitution cannot exist. Who is the marker that sets up the Constitutional Court then? It is of particular importance, the court says, in order not to designate the Specialized Criminal Court as exceptional and to meet the requirements for bias and independence, first of all, to apply the general rules contained in material and procedural laws. And here it is done for the benefit of the prosecution, we have to say it, increasing the time limits, both for making a decision, an investigation, and repealing measures to extend the investigation, for detention, for everything. When you face this court there will be different conditions than if you had faced another. And this, combined with the vague criteria that we mentioned just now, is already making this text unconstitutional and it will be a matter of time before it is established by the Bulgarian Constitutional Court or by international courts.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u190	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? No. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This text that you are proposing to us does not at all correspond to the logic of other parts of the bill, namely speeding up production. Here in Al. 3 in practice, under the factual and legal complexity of the case, the prosecutor may extend the period under para. One to six months. Before that, a year. It's been a year and six months. The duration of each extension may then be more than three months, i.e. another extension by not more than three months. Eternally! At the same time, the measures taken with regard to the defendant for procedural coercion, as well as the measure to secure the civil action and the grounds for its imposition, have been terminated and the revocation by the prosecutor after the end of most of the two years. We introduce two years, on the one hand, for the measure of procedural coercion as a maximum period of time, and notice, within that period does not include the time during which criminal proceedings have been suspended, which also prolongs the period. That is, indeed, here in this concept, which we are currently considering, it is fundamentally contrary to the rest of the concept in the Criminal Procedure Code for speeding up the time limits in criminal proceedings, both in pre-trial and in the judicial phase. That is what this is saying about an exceptionality of this Chamber, which you created just now with the vote and the cases that will be tried on him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u192	Thank you, Lord Popov. A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u193	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The reply form is not adequate in this case. We discussed with our colleagues from the Legal Committee, our colleagues, the leaders of our parliamentary group and I, as an importer of this text and our colleagues Fikirliyska and Alexandrova, are withdrawing it. We withdraw it mainly so that we do not infect it with an argument of unconstitutionality one correct solution. We believe that we have sufficient procedural flexibility, if a change in time limits is required, then this change should be ordered by the head of the relevant phase. So we withdraw it, but it is adopted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u194	You're very good at withdrawing it, but we have to vote on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u195	If you consider that since it has been adopted by the Commission, I will ask our colleagues from GERB's parliamentary group to abstain.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u196	In the vote. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u198	Are there any other statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 88.. with a view to the statement of the proposed ones of the text, it should not be supported. They voted 130 MPs: 5 against 53, abstention 72. The proposal for the creation of § 88 with its corresponding content per report is not supported. Paragraph 61 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u199	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 61, which becomes § 89. Proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Yordanka Fikirliyska and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal to create a new § 62. The Commission proposes to establish § 90: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: A copy of the sentence by which the defendant is sentenced to undergo appropriate punishment shall be sent to the prosecutor for execution. The prosecutor shall inform the court which issued the judgment in which the sentence entered into force of the action taken to comply with the imposed penalty. 2. The creation of para. 7. The decision by which the sentence under para. 2 has entered into force, shall be published on the website of the court concerned, upon receipt of a notification by the prosecutor of action taken to comply with the penalty imposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u200	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 89 and the Commission's proposal to create § 90, with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. We are voting on paragraphs 89 and 90 on the Commission report. 135 MPs voted: 94, against 39, abstention 2. Paragraphs 89 and 90 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u201	Paragraph 62. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 62, which shall become § 91: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words.............................................................................. 243, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 63, which shall become § 92. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64, which shall become § 93. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 65, which shall become § 94. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 66, which shall become § 95.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u202	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 91 to 95, including the Commission's report. They voted 132 MPs: 127, against 2, abstention 3. Paragraphs 91 to 95, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u203	Paragraph 67 "A proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 67, which becomes § 96: ...... 96........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 437 para. The second sentence is finally a comma and is added to the statement on the application.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u204	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for § 67 by importer, which shall become § 96. In fact, § 67 by importer is not supported and the Commission proposes § 96 by its version of the report. We are voting § 96 on the Commission report. They voted 136 MPs: 135, against 1, no abstentions. Paragraph 96 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u205	The Commission does not support the text of importers and proposes that § 68 be rejected. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 69 be rejected. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 70 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u206	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting on the Commission's proposals for § 68, 69 and 70 by importer. Vote 137 MPs: 98 against 38, abstention 1. Paragraphs 68, 69, 70 by importer have been rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u207	Proposal by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 97: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 440, para. The second sentence of the second sentence shall be replaced by a private protest or a complaint which is not in the interest of a private protest. Proposal from the MPs Kirilov, Fikirliyska and Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 98: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 450, para. The third sentence is amended as follows: The order of the court is subject to appeal by the convicted person and the warden of the prison, as well as a protest by the prosecutor in the order of chapter twenty-second and a sentence is created third: the order shall be executed immediately after the expiry of the appeal period, unless a private protest or appeal is made which is not in the interest of the accused. Proposal from the MPs Kirilov, Fikirliyska and Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal to create a new § 72. The Commission proposes to establish § 99. ......... 99..................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 457, para. 3 the words "and the type of prison establishment" are deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 71, which shall become § 100.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u208	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals for the creation of § 97, 98 and 99 with their respective content under the Report and § 100, which is the actually supported text of the importer for § 71. We are voting § 97, 98, 99 and 100 on the Commission report. There are 132 MPs voting: 132, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraphs 97 to 100, including the Commission report, are unanimous.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u209	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 72, but on the basis of art. 50, para. 1 of the Decree on the application of the Law on Legislative Acts, proposes that § 72 be divided into § 101 and § 102 by the following wording: .............................................................................. In Chapter Thirty-Six after Art. 479 a name is being created. Division V. Decision on subsidiary competence. Parallel criminal proceedings. § 102. Art. 36 is created in Chapter 36. 481-484: Information in parallel criminal proceedings Art. 481. In parallel criminal proceedings in the Republic of Bulgaria and other Member States of the European Union, competent authorities shall provide each other with information on: 1. the facts and circumstances which are the subject of criminal proceedings; 2. details of the identity of the perpetrator and of the victims of the crime; 3. the procedural actions carried out; 4. measures imposed for procedural coercion; 5. Name, address, telephone, fax and e-mail address the competent authority; 6. other information. Exchange of information Art. 482. (1) The exchange of information may take place through: 1. the contact points of the European Judicial Network; 2. Eurojust (Eurojust); 3. mail, e-mail or fax; 4. any other duly protected manner in which it may be possible establish its authenticity. (2) The information shall be provided by the Bulgarian competent authority to the competent authority of the other Member State of the European Union within that period, together with a translation into the official language of the requesting Member State or in another official language of the institutions of the European Union which it has adopted by means of a declaration deposited with the General Secretariat of the Council. (3) Information sent to a competent authority in the Republic of Bulgaria shall be accompanied by a translation into Bulgarian. Consultations Art. 483. (1) A decision on criminal proceedings in the Republic of Bulgaria or in another Member State of the European Union shall be taken after direct consultation and written agreement between the relevant competent authorities. (2) Competent to provide information and participate in the decision under para. 1 are the monitoring prosecutor for the pre-trial proceedings and the court which examines the case. Consequences of agreement Art. 484. (1) Upon agreement on the conduct of criminal proceedings in another Member State of the European Union, the formation in the Republic of Bulgaria shall be terminated on the basis of art. 24, para. 1, t. 6. (2) Upon agreement to conduct criminal proceedings in the Republic of Bulgaria, the competent Bulgarian authority shall inform the authority of the other Member State of the result.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u210	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote § 101 and § 102 of the Commission Report. Please vote. 130 MPs vote: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraphs 101 and 102 of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u211	Under § 73 "A proposal from the National Representative Pencho Milkov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 73, which shall become § 103: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Chapter thirty-seven shall be created with art. 485-490: Chapter 30-seven. PRESENTAL INTERVIEWS ON CRIMINAL QUESTIONS Competentness of the national court Art. 485. Where the interpretation of a provision of European Union law in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters or the validity and interpretation of acts of the institutions, bodies, offices or agencies of the European Union on such matters is relevant for the proper resolution of the case, the court before which the case is pending shall refer a preliminary ruling to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Enquiry Art. 486. (1) The request shall be made by the court of its own motion or at the request of one of the parties. (2) The court whose judgment or judgment is subject to appeal may refuse to respect a request for a preliminary ruling unless it finds the grounds under para. 4. The order is not subject to appeal or protest. (3) The court whose judgment or judgment is not subject to appeal shall, unless the answer to the question arises clearly and unambiguously from a previous judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union or the meaning and meaning of the provision or act is so clear that it does not raise any doubt. (4) The Court shall always make a request where there is doubt of the validity of an act under art. 485. (5) Upon request of a preliminary ruling, the court shall send a copy of it to the branch carrying out the procedural representation of the Republic of Bulgaria before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Content of the request Art. 487. (1) The reference for a preliminary ruling shall contain: 1. the relevant facts and circumstances of the case and subject matter of the dispute; 2. the applicable national law and case law; 3. the provision or act the interpretation of which is sought; 4. the reasons why the court accepts that the preliminary ruling is relevant for the proper resolution of the case; 5. a brief statement of the relevant opinions of the parties; 6. the specific questions referred for a preliminary ruling; 7. a statement of the facts and circumstances which justify the need to examine the reference for a preliminary ruling under the order of urgent proceedings, if such a need exists; 8. e-mail or fax to carry out direct contact. (2) The Court may keep the identity of one or more parties to the proceedings confidential. (3) The reference for a preliminary ruling shall be sent together with certified copies of the relevant documents in the case. Suspension and reopening of proceedings before the national court Art. 488. (1) By making the request, the court shall suspend the proceedings in the case. The definition of suspension shall not be subject to appeal or protest. (2) The proceedings in the case shall resume immediately after receipt of the judgment in the preliminary ruling. (3) The Court may reopen the proceedings in the case before receipt of the judgment in the preliminary ruling, if procedural action is necessary as the only possibility to collect and preserve evidence. Where new facts are established relevant for the reference for a preliminary ruling, the court shall immediately inform the Court of Justice of the European Union. Measures for procedural coercion in the event of suspension of proceedings Art. 489. (1) In the event of suspension of criminal proceedings pursuant to art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 The court shall rule on procedural measures Force. (2) The Parties may make requests for amendment or revocation of measures of procedural coercion and of suspension of proceedings. (3) The definitions under para. 1 subject to appeal and a protest pursuant to Chapter Twenty-Two with a private complaint; or Private protest. Send Copy Art. 490. The Court of Justice shall forward to the Court of Justice of the European Union a copy of the decision in force in respect of which the reference for a preliminary ruling has been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u212	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u213	(BSP for Bulgaria): Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will make a procedure and it is related to the following: as colleagues withdrew their proposal under art. 411 years, however, is related to the proposal that we have already voted on and adopted in the new § 9. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 63 the following amendments and additions are made: "2." A new para is being created. 5. The measure of non-retention in custody in pre-trial proceedings may last for more than two years if the person is brought intodictment for a serious criminal offence under Article. 411 a.m., not to read the text until the end, and so on. 3 "Today's Act. 5, 6, 7 and 8 become respectively. 6, 7, 8 and 9................................................................................................. I suggest we rethink this text because it is practically without art. 411 years, which was withdrawn, remains dead, hanging text without any extension and without any meaning. In this regard, I propose that we vote again on this. 2 et c. 3, the same should be removed from the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u214	What do the colleagues who withdrew their proposal think?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u215	We don't mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u216	And now you want to tell me exactly what you're proposing and where to go back?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u217	Mr President, honourable Members, the proposal is to re-vote § 9 on the report and otherwise is § 5 by importer which becomes § 9. The text of the Commission, where p. 1, t. 2 et c. 3, in practice, colleagues propose and should comply with the relationship to be dismissed. 2, that is, to cancel the new para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u218	Who's the importing paragraph?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u219	The importer shall be § 5 on page 4 of the report a new § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u220	Okay. What's going on over there?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u221	Let's drop it. 2, as...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u222	Which reads: A new para is being created. Five.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u223	That's right. And et cetera. 3 also cancels out because it is a renumbering of paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u224	Points 2 and 3 in a new § 9, which is § 9 in the Commission report. We are voting on the proposal to return to § 9 on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 124 MPs: 124, no opposition and no abstentions. Unanimously, we return to § 9 on the Commission report, in which paragraph proposes to drop points 2 and 3, which means that the number one will be dropped if points 2 and 3 are adopted. There won't be a need for numbering, most likely. Please vote. Vote 127 MPs: for 126, against none, abstention 1. Points 2 and 3 are out. We vote § 9, which will read as follows: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 63 the following amendments and additions are made: In para. 2 is created t. 4. "4." the charge has been filed under the terms of art. 269, para. 3.................................................................................. Isn't that right? Please vote. They voted 122 MPs: 90, none, abstention 32. We adopted § 9 on the Commission report in the version that we have now amended.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u225	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 74, which shall become § 104: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Paragraph 1 of the additional provision establishes para. 3 and para. 4. This code includes criminal proceedings which take place in two or more Member States of the European Union in respect of the same facts concerning the same person. (4) The protection needs to be addressed within the meaning of this Code are available where additional means of protection from secondary and repeated victimisation, intimidation and revenge are required, emotional or mental suffering, including the preservation of the dignity of those affected during questioning.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u226	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 104 on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 127 MPs: for 127, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 104 has been adopted unanimously. All we have to do is see if we voted § 103. We didn't vote on it. Are there any statements under § 103? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote § 103 on the Commission report. They voted 139 MPs: for 139 against and abstentions there is no. Paragraph 103 is unanimously adopted on the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u227	"Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 75, which shall become § 105.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u228	We are voting on the name of the section of the Additional provision and § 105 on the Commission report. They voted 136 MPs: for 136 against and abstention there is no. The term "Additional provision" and § 105 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u229	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 76, which shall become § 106. Under § 77, there is a proposal from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov in accordance with Article 77. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 77, which shall become § 107: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 para. 2 is amended as follows: If a criminal offence is detected, administrative criminal proceedings shall be terminated and the materials shall be sent to the prosecutor concerned. The physical evidence and items of art. 41 shall be kept by the administrative punishing authority until the Prosecutor is pronounced. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36, para. 2 the judge or prosecutor is added after the words, or the prosecutor has refused to initiate criminal proceedings. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following point shall be , (e) where the act for which administrative criminal proceedings have been concluded constitutes a criminal offence. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72 after the words the district attorney shall be a comma and shall be added to the cases referred to in Art. 72. 70 (e) by the monitoring prosecutor. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 78, which shall become § 108: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on Special Intelligence (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 3 sentences first and second, the word "s' shall be replaced by the words "for crimes committed by'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the words "72 hours' shall be replaced by "48 hours'; (b) in para. 4. (aa) in the text before t. 1 after the words are given... is added for crimes committed (bb) c. 1 and 2 the words "s' shall be deleted. According to § 79 there is a proposal from the MPs Christian Mitev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 79, which shall become § 109: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Incarceration (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42, para. 1 after the words..................................................................................... 340, para. Article 6 is amended as follows: 354, para. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58 in the text before t. 1 words.............................................................................. 43, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62, para. 1, t. 5 words................................................................................. 43, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 43, para. The following points are inserted after Proposal from the MPs Kirilov, Fikirliyska and Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 110: ........................................................... In the Law on the Judiciary (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 64 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word, the courts shall be a comma and shall be added, except for those in criminal cases by which the defendant shall be sentenced to a corresponding penalty. 2. A new para is being created. 2: The decisions with which the sentences entered into force shall be published on the website of the relevant court on the Internet after receiving a notification from the prosecutor that they have been implemented. 3. Previously on AMC's... 2 and 3 become para. 3 and 4. Proposal by the National Representative Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish paragraphs 111 to 113: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Assistance and Financial Compensation of Victims of Crime (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 12, para. 2, p. 3 words.............................................................................. 24, para. 1, t. 1, 7 and 9 shall be replaced by the following: 24, para. 1, t. One, seven, eighta and nine. § 112. In the Law on Legal Aid (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 28, para. 1 the words...................................................................................... § 113. In the Civil Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 124, para. 5 words................................................................................. 25, t. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 25, para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 80, which shall become § 114: .............................................................................. (1) The cases which have been changed before the entry into force of this Law shall be dealt with by the courts in which they have been set up. (2) The pre-trial proceedings before the entry into force of this Law shall be completed by the bodies to which they are pending. (3) Unfinished until the entry into force of this Law proceedings under the repealed Chapter 25 shall be completed by Previously on Order... The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 81, which shall become § 115: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The provisions of paragraphs 13, 15, 36... 46, 62, 72, 76, 77 and 78 shall not apply to cases pending before the entry into force of that Law............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 82, which shall become § 116. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 83 which shall become § 117.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u230	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Colleagues, you have the floor for speaking under the section "Transitional and final provisions" and paragraphs 106 to 117 including, in view of the withdrawal, i.e. not taking § 88 all the paragraphs will change the numbering. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have an editorial proposal regarding § 77 by importer, which becomes § 106.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u232	Paragraph 77 by importer, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u233	Paragraph 78 under an importer in the Special Intelligence Means Act, in the text before point 1 after the words.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 12, para. 2 and para. 3..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u234	So we add all of this after we add it, or after it is given, is that it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u235	After that, it's given away.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u236	What's in it for you?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u237	It shall be given to all participants, including persons, and witnesses under art. 12, para. 2 and para. 3. "In order to be absolutely symmetrical with the text which we have adopted in § 24 in respect of art. 174 of the PPC.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u238	Okay, but this is § 78, not § 77, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u239	Yes, §78.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-26.u240	Any other statements under all these paragraphs, is there? I won't. I put to the vote the clarification and addition to § 78 by importer, as presented to you by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Danail Kirilov. Please vote. We are voting on a proposal to § 78 by importer. They voted 137 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 35. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the division "Transitional and final provisions" and paragraphs 76 by importer up to 83 by importer together with the change made to § 78 by importer. We are voting on the name of the section of the Office of Transport and Final Provisions and paragraphs 76 to 83, including by importer. Please vote. They voted 141 MPs: 104, none, abstention 37. The sub-division is adopted by all its paragraphs. We're adjourning the meeting due to the exhaustion of the agenda. [[PHONE RINGING]]
