ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Message: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 85 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we withdraw the bill submitted by us on 10 May 2017 amending the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land by No 754-01-3. Next are the signatures of all importers. "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 85 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we withdraw the bill tabled by us on 10 May 2017 amending the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land No 754-01-3. Importers: Dimitar Petrov, Desislava Taneva and Menda Stoyanova. On 16 May 2016, a final audit report No 1000-200-116 was received by the President of the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance in the financial management of the City Mobility Centre (CPA) for the period from 1 January 2014 to 30 June 2016. By letter from the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and was available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We move on to today's item on the agenda: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE BULGARIAN ACADEMY OF THE LEARNINGS FOR 2015 AND A YEAR REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE BULGARIAN ACADEMIA OF THE LEARNINGS FOR 2016 Report from the Committee on Education and Science. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u2	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, before I present to you the Commission Report, please vote on admission in the hall of academic Julian Revalski, Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and Prof. Julian Revalski. Mr. Ivan Dimov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u3	Yes, please vote on the proposal made. Vote 197 MPs: for 197, against and abstention there is no. Please invite the faces to the hall. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u4	♪ I can't believe on the Annual Activity Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2015, No 705-002, submitted by the Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on 11 May 2017 and the Annual Activity Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences 2016, No 705-01, submitted by the Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on 24 April 2017. At its extraordinary meeting held on 16 May 2017, the Education and Science Committee discussed the Annual Activity Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2015 and the Annual Activity Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2016. The meeting was attended by Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, prof. Mr. Ivan Dimov, Deputy Minister, Academician Rivalski, Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Member of correspondent Konstantin Hadjievanov, Deputy Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Prof. Evdokiya Pasheva, Chief Research Secretary of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, representatives of the academic community and trade union organizations in the field of higher education and science. The MPs united around the decision to hold a joint discussion on the two reports, which were presented by the Acade. Revalski and Prof. Pasheva. The reports concerned shall be submitted within the statutory period. When they're performing an acad. Rewalski, make the statement that a technical error has been made when writing the name of the documents concerned, instead of 3 of the Law on the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. In 2015, 2741 scientists worked at the Academy and in 2016. 2707. The publication activity in 2015 includes 9183 titles. Of these 3388 are in international referee magazines. In 2016, audience activity included 8192 titles, of which 3020 in international reference journals. The highest share are scientific publications in the field of sciences, new materials and technologies and in the field of science and communication sciences and technologies. In 2015 the budget subsidy amounted to 75 million. Eight hundred and seventy-five thousand. BGN and 2016 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in 590 thousand. lv. Almost the entire subsidy is spent on salaries, insurance contributions, benefits and scholarships. In 2015 the own revenue and transfers amounted to 55.2 million. BGN and 2016 This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of They are formed by contracts under international programs and agreements, by contracts with ministries and offices, with Bulgarian and foreign companies, by selling production, services, donations and others. To them are added transfers from the Research Fund, from ministries and offices, from operational programmes and other programmes of the European Union. The conclusion is that despite budgetary constraints BAS retains its position as a leading research centre and center of spirituality. The problem remains the attraction of young scientists. Written opinions on the Annual Activity Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in 2015 came from the Minister of Education and Science, from the Minister of Economy, from the Minister of Defence, from the Minister of Environment and Water, from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, from the Union of Scientists in Bulgaria, from the Council of Rectors and from the Federation of Scientific Technical Unions in Bulgaria, all supporting the report. [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u5	Excuse me, Mrs. Damyanova, interrupt for a moment, let's restore the silence in the room. Please, colleagues. Colleagues, please be quiet so we can hear the report. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u6	The annual report for 2016 provided a supporting opinion by the Minister of Education and Science. The discussion included MPs Snezana Dukova, Irena Anastasova, Stanislav Stanilov, Ivo Hristov and Errol Mehmed. The MPs pointed out that the two systems of science and education are closely related and welcomed the work of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences with children and students. A common opinion was expressed that the Academy should be a strategic partner of the country, which is expected to have a comprehensive policy at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Support for young scientists should be a national priority. The chronic lack of funding of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the difference in the structure of funding compared with leading scientific organizations in other European countries was mentioned as worrying. An increase in the analytical part of the report was recommended to highlight more clearly the trends in scientific activity and the effect of structural changes made. The Members of the National Assembly raised the following questions: - Is it just the financial problems of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences? - Is the reduction of young scientists only due to low remuneration? - What is the structure of capital expenditure and how to acquire new equipment? The importers recalled the severe and painful structural reform carried out in 2010, however, which was not supported by state institutions. Capital expenditure is usually on its own account and equipment is modernised through participation in national and European projects. The financial problems are prevailing, but beyond them the Academy does not stop reforming its activities in sync with the trends in world science. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has higher requirements for public activity compared to university lecturers who are also charged with educational activity. A systematic effort shall be made to improve the quality of specialised scientific publications, taking into account the specific differences between technical and humanities. Restoring the prestige of scientists and lecturers from all levels of the system is seen as the most important tool for encouraging young scientists besides funding. The members of the Commission agreed with the clarification made by the importer in the name of the documents under discussion, which is reflected in the proposed draft decisions. The draft decisions were adopted two separate votes as follows: After the discussion was concluded and the vote was held with 20 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Project! DECISION on the Annual Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 3, para. 3 of the Law on the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2015 After the discussion was concluded and a vote with results was held for the National Assembly to accept the following: Project! DECISION on the Annual Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 3, para. 3 of the Law on the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Honourable Members, we have listened to the Commission's report. I give the guests the opportunity to take part in the hearing report and on the topic which the National Assembly is discussing today. We are going to take a decision to adopt the 2015 and 2016 reports. We are discussing two reports in two years. We will listen to both the presentation and the attitude of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to the two reports and we will make separate decisions about them consistently. The discussion will take place in general. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me to present the annual reports containing the report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2015 and 2016. By coincidence, I will present to you the annual reports for two years, which may give you an opportunity to see the dynamics of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. I would also like to thank you for giving the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences the opportunity to present its activities to you in one of your first meetings. Usually over the years, we are looking for events that are of a larger nature and in 2015 these were related to the International Year of Light and Light Technology announced by UNESCO. You know that we have a very strong part in physics. In this sense, a number of events related to this year were held by the Academy, focusing on the importance of light and light technologies for sustainable development and finding solutions related to energy, communications and healthcare. Another thing that is particularly important for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is, of course, how our scientists present themselves in our national competitions. Traditionally the most prestigious awards were won by our colleagues in 2015 by four colleagues who were winners of this prestigious award of the Ministry of Education and Science. I would particularly like to point out that in 2015, which I am talking about, an international organisation which is the most prestigious in terms of the world's naucometric data has awarded its award to the Institute for Nuclear Research and Nuclear Energy. Another important activity, which is of a general nature, relates to our work with the students. What has been going on in a number of sciences up until now, mathematics, physics, has already been promoted to the level of Academy and we have the so-called School of Education at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, in which children from 8th to 12th grade have the opportunity to present their own developments related to initial steps in the research process. Of course, a number of our colleagues are also winners of prestigious state awards. You can see our colleagues - academician Dochi Exerova, academician Damian Damyanov and Professor Balarev - who received high awards from the President in connection with their activities. Two words about the activities of the Academic Assembly and the correspondents. You know, academics and correspondents aren't just colleagues working at the Academy. More or less half of them are from institutions that are outside the institutes of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Their activity is extremely active and important, and it can safely be said that they have production that is more than a major institute of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in both the field of public activities and their participation in projects and also in their pedagogical activities. Let me start with the naucometric part of the criterion by which the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is good in the world space. You see a diagram that shows you the distribution of our publications. I would especially like to draw attention to the fact that we are seeking to increase the share of publications that are in international publications in referees and in so-called impact-factor journals, because this is the criterion on which, when we apply for international projects, we are appreciated. Prestigious publicity is a prerequisite for successful international projects. This is the dynamics for several years, as you can see both in terms of publications, which are the most important in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and in terms of citations. I would like to pay particular attention to the citation, because it shows how the external world, the international scientific community appreciates our publications. The high citriuity shows that these are results that are interesting, important to them and they quote them. Relative stability is noted in both types of activities, which shows that we have sustainability in this part of our activity related to science. Here are given only four of the most important players in the field of research in Bulgaria, I mean BAS, Sofia University, Medical University, Technical University, and what is the distribution only between them of this publishing activity, which is observed, I repeat, outside of the international databases. It's about the Thomson Reuters case. You can see that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is very good and the larger part of these publications is in our institutes. The same applies to the citation of the...................................................................................................................... Again we see that we are leaders in Bulgaria regarding how the outside world recognises our results. Another activity, after the publication, which is extremely important for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, is our work, in general, in the projects. It is about scientific projects as well as, of course, projects that can be commercialised. Here you see a diagram that shows you the number of projects we have. [[Shows slide.]] As you can see, it is quite impressive over 1300 for 2015. A reduction is noticed in the Fund of Scientific Studies. However, as you will find out later, this is due to the fact that there is an unevenness in the announcement of competition sessions. Otherwise, in terms of, as you can see, we have significant success on projects from abroad as well. This is the second important pillar of the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences after its publication activity, which is, of course, no less important for us. A diagram to show you what is about the amount that we attract per year in recent years is about 2015 from scientific developments. [[Shows slide.]] These are additional funds outside the budget subsidy. The difference between 2014 and 2015, which you notice, three million, is due to the fact that in 2014 there was a large consure for infrastructure projects, where a number of institutes of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences managed to have successful projects. But you notice that the amount that is extra is a fairly solid amount of 47 mlb. This is a diagram. [[shows slide]] which probably will not represent much interest for you, because it shows what the distribution of our different nine directions of this project activity is. Of course, the largest share are nanosciences and new materials and technologies, because there are most of the institutes of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. One diagram [[shows slide]] , however, for your information to see how the funds are distributed, which are attracted by Bulgaria. For 2015 there was practically no competition of the Fund "Science Research" and therefore the attracted funds are the smallest, most of them from ministries and departments "About 75 percent, and about 25 percent, the next large feather, are attracted by commercial companies. Here's what I was just talking about. [[Shows slide.]] This chart clearly shows that at the Fund of Scientific Studies we have years that are practically zero and for this reason, naturally, as well as our organization, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and universities and other research organizations can not have much of a revenue. Practically 2015 is zero in respect of the other years. This is the additional funding already from scientific projects and scientific developments from abroad. [[Shows slide.]] We have good success there too. The largest percentage of the European Union and the various scientific programmes related to the European Union come from the European Union. From various other organizations we also have about 15%, and what is important to note for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is that we are a sought-after partner from commercial companies from abroad. This year's total amount is 15 million. BGN, additionally attracted from abroad. What can I say about projects finishing this part? We attach extremely great importance and competitiveness to the institutes of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is at an extremely high level. I'd like to make a special note of one thing. In 2015, a report of the entire previous period was presented. The Framework Programme of the European Union was presented in Bulgaria as well. The European Commission has published a book entitled "The Practices I am proud of." There were about 25 projects and there was a Bulgarian project of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. I would particularly like to emphasise that there were large countries that were not represented in these projects that were truly honoured. In other words, we can be proud that Bulgaria has entered this ranking with a project from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. This is the distribution of the different directions in terms of what is the success rate of the different directions. [[Shows slide.]] Of course, again, the biggest directions are related to what I just mentioned to you about nanosciences and technologies, because that's where we have Most of the institutes. Third important pillar and third important activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is its expert activity. [[Shows slide.]] We have always argued and we can proudly state that we are the Expert Center of our country in different directions. Here I will give just a few examples that show this potential. Of course, there are many others. I will mention the publication of the Red Book of the Republic of Bulgaria, which was jointly published between the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Ministry of Environment and Water (MoEW). This is a rather large, volume work that has been carried out for more than ten years by scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, of course, together with the Ministry of Environment and Water, which contains endangered species both in fauna and flora, as well as ecosystems in Bulgaria. Another important activity in which we support state institutions, these are all problems related to demographic policy, demographic development and measures to overcome negative trends. [[Shows slide.]] A third important activity, which I can mention in 2015, was related to the challenges in technological development in Bulgaria, which was jointly with the Ministry of Economy. [[Shows slide.]] Of course, there were other forums, as well as international forums. The most important and hot topics of our time such as cybersecurity, such as refugee problems and related security problems in Bulgaria, migration processes and others are not overlooked. Once again, I give only examples of these hottest topics that have excited our society in recent years. Here I do not mention such traditional things that you see every day, like all things related to the National Institute of Metrology and Hydrology, as well as our seismologists, who 24 hours a day, 365 days a year carry out these observations and accordingly give their analyses. Let me also say a few words about the people who are doing all this. First of all, I'm starting with our defenses. In 2015, they were almost 140. Here is the distribution given in directions. [[Shows slide.]] I would like to emphasise specifically, which is why it will also be a question later that we attach great importance to the work with young people, because this is our future shift and there are also our biggest problems lately in terms of attracting more young people. There are some problems that you will notice in 2016, which we discussed in detail in the Committee on Education and Science in the National Assembly. With regard to our scientific potential, I mean both the junior assistants and the chief assistants and the habilitated professors, we have a certain sustainability in recent years and we do not have such a lure in which to appear much more habilitated in terms of what is expected. [[Shows slide.]] But I still wish there was a bigger part of what's very important is a higher percentage of junior staff, assistants and senior assistants. That is why we are making considerable efforts. As you know, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is also a spiritual center. We have a number of institutes that are related to the national identity and preservation of our cultural and historical heritage, as well as, of course, in the Assembly of Academicians and a member of the correspondents are members of our distinguished artists. In this sense, we also pay great attention to this part of our work. Here I will give just a few examples related to this. We have a number of joint activities, e.g. with the French Institute, which are related to aspects of science, science and conscience, whether research is at the service of society. [[Shows slide.]] For the second consecutive year we celebrated together with colleagues from the Macedonian Academy of Sciences and Arts, May 11 - the festival of the brothers Cyril and Methodius. We have good cooperation with a number of countries, in this case an example is given with Poland and marking the role and place of science in our two countries during the transition period. We have similar problems. [[Shows slide.]] Of course, we have a number of exhibitions that are of a general nature, and I have mentioned here several of them related to the Russian-Turkish War and the liberation of Bulgaria, which was in our building, which is here next to you. To mention in particular the Bulgarian contribution to the cultural and historical diversity of united Europe. A very nice exhibition related to the work of Kolyo Ficheto, which bears the name of destruction and creation, which you have also been able to see, I hope, was presented here and in our building. Finally, let me say a few words before I move on to the conclusions regarding subsidy, revenue and transfers to get a clearer picture of what the situation is in this direction. Here you can see the subsidy in the last 6-7 years "to 2015. As you can see, it has been relatively sustainable in recent years, there is no significant increase. We have various transfers that I will mention, perhaps rather in 2016, which are targeted. The distribution of own income and transfers by different items is given here. Maybe it's a little large this diagram, but we have, of course, operational programs, we have from ministries several, the Science Research Fund, as I mentioned, was very few. It is very much the feather from European Union projects, as you can see, and from contracts with scientific organisations from the country. It is more important that you see the distribution not only of the subsidy, but first of all our revenues. The blue you see is the subsidy, it represents about 60%. As you will notice later, this is a sustainable trend that has been noticed in recent years, and the rest is from different parts. This diagram is more representative because it shows you what the ratio is. You can take a look at the last three, four years by 2015, what is the ratio between subsidy and own income. As you can see, the sum of $75 million and something on top is $55 million. This is a 60% subsidy ratio, 40% own. In recent years this is a sustainable trend that is noticed in the part of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Here are the costs. As you can see, one large part of all these funds, I mean from the overall budget, is about salary, the other is about maintenance and capital expenditure. I would especially like to draw attention to how the subsidy that you are voting for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is distributed. The majority of the grant goes for salaries and about 64%, and this is a little disturbing for us, goes for wages and an even 11% goes for insurance, so nearly three quarters of the grant goes for salaries and social security and a significantly small part remains for other things, say, international activity. Here we have a targeted subsidy and alimony. Large is the percentage of the subsidy that goes for salaries and for insurance contributions. This chart is shown to show that, in terms of capital expenditure, we are dealing entirely alone in recent years. Here on 2011, 2012 and 2013 there was an opportunity to draw a little from the capital subsidy, but after 2014. all capital expenditure is covered by own funds. You'll allow me a few conclusions at the end of the two years. I think it becomes clear from this report that we are the undisputed scientific centre in the Republic of Bulgaria when we need to look at the few basic criteria that assess scientific activity. I mean public activities, project activities, expert activities. Last but not least, I would like to stress that we have considerable merit in terms of preserving national identity, preserving cultural and historical heritage through our institutes in humanitarian and social sciences. You have seen from the diagrams that the main percentage of scientific production, especially that which is visible in the world databases, is more than half the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The same is true of how we are appreciated from the outside in terms of citrirumity, the same is the issue of patent activity. Much of the patents are concentrated at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. We can say that we are honored to carry out this work, which is related to Bulgaria's performance in the world research space. I would like to emphasise specifically that our great concern is young people. In 2015, it was initiated, you will actually see it in 2016, a Young Scientists Support Programme, which we hope will become a tradition, but we would like to emphasise in particular that we want and hope with the strategy that is expected to be adopted by you, a long-term and sustainable policy, because short-term funding has also a short-term effect and cannot give sustainable development. Here on this slide are given some recommendations of the panel, which was for 2015, by the European Commission. I will not dwell much on them, because the panel was here again at the beginning of this week until yesterday, and I suppose they themselves will draw the conclusions as to whether these recommendations have been implemented, and will provide them to you. What was supposed to be two main things - one is to see a long-term and sustainable research development policy in the Republic of Bulgaria, of course, not only in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, but also in higher schools, and the other that it is good to have the investment invested in research to those institutions and institutes that are best represented, i.e. to have targeted funding. This is actually one of the conclusions I have drawn here that stable national policy and funding, which can be accepted and seen in perspective by all state institutions, will only make research in Bulgaria even more effective and will increase Bulgaria's credibility in the world research and European space. You will allow me to present the other report now. So we did in the Commission, and it seems that it was better to discuss both reports at once, because, as you will notice, dynamics exist, but pretty much both the successes and the problems they have are similar.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u9	That's right, Mr. Chairman. We've already warned you this is how it's gonna be. Continue, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u10	Annual report containing the 2016 report I will start again with the fact that we always try to have activities that are not only of a national but also of an international nature. In 2016, this was the celebration of the 1100th anniversary of the Assumption of St. George's Day. Kliment Ohridski. On our proposal, this was included in UNESCO's programme and was supported by a number of countries such as Greece, Italy, Macedonia, Poland, Russia, Slovakia and Serbia. The other thing I would like to point out and it is of great public importance that a project is launched which is multidisciplinary in the full sense of this word. It is related to the study of Thracians, their genesis and the development of ethnicity, cultural identities, civilization interactions and heredity. This is a really large-scale project in which, on the one hand, historians, archaeologists and Balkanists stand, but on the other hand, there are chemists, biologists, mathematicians, because we want through the modern methods that exist, to examine which of the Thracians has then moved into Bulgarian history and into Bulgarian ethnicity. We have, of course, cooperation with a number of countries on this project. He's international, too. I would particularly like to stress that this project is fully implemented by a donating fund and is not touched either by the subsidy or by other additional revenues of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. I believe that it is extremely important to us and I hope that it will also be interesting when the conclusions come from it. This is what I mentioned a moment ago, I particularly want to highlight this programme, which was financed by the Ministry of Education and Science, to help young scientists. It had an extremely positive effect because it allowed young scientists to work independently, to write projects, it was on a competitive principle, to prepare projects and to apply after winning them to guide them, that is, the effect was not only financial, they received an addition to what they received from scholarships. As you know, alumni's scholarships aren't high at all. But rather, there was an additional motivational effect, and I can tell you that the activity of young people has increased significantly. About 380 projects were submitted, out of which 231 were financed. I've already mentioned the awards of Pythagoras. And here we had six awards in 2016, if memory serves, the great award for a young scientist, for a well-established scientist in the field of humanities and social sciences, as head of a scientific team. I hope that today, tonight, when they are served, we will again be pleasantly surprised to have representatives from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences who are winning the Pitagor Prize, we do not yet know who they are, we will understand them tonight. I have traditionally mentioned that I will no longer spend any more time on the activities of academics and correspondents. The academic body is an inextricable part of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which is extremely active in the life of the Academy, as I mentioned in the public activities as well as in the participation in projects, as well as the pedagogical activities of our fellow academics and correspondents. It really honors them to be so active and thus contribute to the authority and prestige of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. In 2016 there was an active donation campaign among academics and correspondents. Our colleagues understand that BAS is in a difficult period in terms of financial situation and about 90 thousand leva. were given by personal donations for assistance, mainly to young people and some of the activities of the Academy, for which we could not find funds from other sources. I would especially like to mention academician Anton Donchev, who received a prize as a donor in the category Supporting libraries with his donations that he made to our library. Once again I will say a few words about the publications, again I will only talk about those who are visible outside. I mentioned the reason why I wanted to pay attention to them. This nanometric part is where we are appreciated when we apply for international projects. That's what they see outside, and that's what they appreciate. We are again about half of the scientific production seen in the world in Bulgaria. The same applies to the citation and other science-metric data that I will not mention, they are a little more specific, but generally show that we are the main research unit seen in the World Research Area. We have an increase in the share of those articles we want. As has been said and there was a discussion in the committee itself, we have, of course, and problems, they are mainly related to a small percentage of our publications, which are not in referees. One part of them relates to the fact that, as I mentioned, we have the institutes of humanities who are obliged to care for our national identity, cultural and historical heritage and naturally there are a significant number of publications that are in Bulgarian and cannot be monitored or referred to. However, as has been noted in the Commission, this is one concern for us, and in this direction we will make an extremely great effort, we have already started specifically with a policy aimed at stimulating publications that are visible in the world databases, as well as a policy of raising the prestige of our magazines, which are issued by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. This is a diagram showing the distribution of the publications of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences by type of publications. I'm not gonna put too much into it. I would also point out that our primary concern is what is in relation to publications that are either in reference databases or an impact factor. Let me switch again to this diagram, which I told you is relatively sustainable last year, but still, as you can see, a slight reduction is also noted in both the audience and quotes, but, as has also been noted in Mrs. Damyanova's report, and our scientists are decreasing, although not very much, but less and persistently decreasing, unfortunately, which is extremely worrying because one of the recommendations of this panel in 2015 was precisely that the number of scientists in Bulgaria has reached a critical minimum and we should rather increase it, looking for a way to increase it. The second important element of our work is the project activity. Because in 2016, thank God, there was a session of the Research Fund, our success rate was extremely high. Success 56% is something really unique because if you take the European Union and look at what is the best success rate there, hardly any country goes to more than 25%, and here an organization, as you see in some sciences we stand out a lot, including the worst in agricultural sciences, although agrarian research is not at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, but in agricultural sciences. I am particularly focusing on this slide to stress that we are extremely active in the design work, we have been and will also be active in the future, because not only do we not underestimate project activity but, on the contrary, we attach great importance to it. Here is the number of projects, it has decreased compared to 2015 by about a hundred, but it is due to the fact that there was a consolidation of topics in the institutes of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Again, to have an idea of what additional funding on scientific projects is. As you can see, there's a resistance here. It is slightly smaller than in 2015. I mentioned that this sticking out in 2014 was due to the fact that there was a special program for infrastructure projects where the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences had significant success. Sustainability exists in these additional amounts. Again, there is no doubt that most of the projects are in the field of nanosciences, new materials and technologies, because there are most of our institutes concentrated there. This is the distribution of that 45 million. lv. in different directions One more picture to see how funding is from Bulgaria and abroad. First I will introduce you from Bulgaria. A very good percentage this time from the Science Research Fund, because there was a normal session. We continue to be sought by commercial companies, although, as you know, large companies in Bulgaria have their own external scientific development companies, yet 34% of the proceeds do not come from commercial companies, and, of course, traditional good cooperation with ministries and departments in this direction. Around 70 million from abroad are distributed by 38% of the European Union, from other organisations we have about 45% of NATO, UNESCO and other international organisations and foundations. Again, to mention that sustainable is also the rate of attracted by external trading companies outside Bulgaria, additional funds. Since the European Union's new framework programme has started, Horizon 2020, in 2016, when the new project machine is already running, new 15 projects have appeared to be worth more than EUR 3 million, so the total number of projects under the programme has increased to nearly 50 with a total value of over EUR 7 million. I would especially like to point out here some examples of extremely successful international cooperation. On the one hand, our audience activity clearly shows that we stand well, we are integrated into the global and European research space. On the other hand, the examples I will give you also show that in terms of projects, specific projects, we are also a sought-after partner and we have respectable international successes. I will mention this project, which I have already spoken about in the previous report related to the project "AKCOMIN" which belonged to the Institute of Information and Communication Technologies. You know very well that our Nuclear Institute has extremely good cooperation with CERN, where it develops various problems in physics involving new fundamental particles and interactions. In chemistry we also have successful projects. Here I have set an example with one that is related to improving stag-based, solid-oxide fuel cells. The Institute for Optical Materials and Technologies is also a sought-after partner, as you can see, not only from Europe but also from Taiwan, the University of Antwerp. I will mention the Institute of General and Inorganic Chemistry, which also has a successful international project under the Seventh Framework Programme. It is very important to say that our institutes of humanitarian and social science are also active on the international stage. Here I have given two examples with the two institutions for study of the population and people and for research of society and knowledge, which have two projects. The first is related to the dynamic nature of ethnic attitudes in Bulgaria and the second is related to the social exclusion of young people in Europe. As you know, in recent years we have common problems with a number of other European countries. These two slides highlight the fact that we are also a sought-after partner from a number of international organisations in the field of project work. I mean universities, academies and institutes from other countries. I'm getting back to expert work. I just mentioned a number here, in red, over 9,000 experts are given, I can hardly mention all of them. I have already mentioned the operational activities we perform every day and every hour. But let me still give a few examples that illustrate the fact that we are a sought-after partner in terms of expertise of a different nature. For example, the European League chose BAS to establish a European Institute for Analysis and Strategies. The second thing I'm about to mention is technology. At the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry there is a Council on Innovation and Technology Development with which we partner. They held a round table with examples of successful innovations at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. And this year I will be ahead of the events, in 2017 a number of our projects were honoured by this Innovation Council at the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Several strokes again on the hot topics of our society related to terrorism, refugee waves have not been avoided, the risks and threats to security and the construction of an integrated security sector is also a topic which was discussed in 2016 by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Bulgaria during the prism of the discussion of the Munich Security Conference. Perhaps many of you have noticed a number of young people in 2016, and still wear these T-shirts that you wrote on: Write properly! This was an initiative of young people from the Institute for Bulgarian Language, which was held throughout the country. You know, we've been having problems in the field lately, unfortunately, of common literacy. So we are also concerned about this problem, and young people have found an eye-catching initiative to support efforts in this direction. I'm going to mention the Student Institute of BAS again. We work with young people traditionally. You have heard of our success in the field of Olympics, but what is important is that we are trying to stimulate young people to make scientific developments so that they can have a taste for research as young as young people and, God forbid, become our colleagues tomorrow at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences or in higher schools. With scientists, I'm going to point out something that's disturbing, and we're having a sharp drop in defense of the PhD students, and that's what's really bothering us. If you've memorized the number that was in 2015, it was 130, we're dropping a little over 90, we're currently doing an analysis of the causes. Of course, sometimes there are years when the defenses are a little less, because the total number of PhD students is sustainable, but this is still a disturbing thing which has been discussed seriously in the National Assembly's Education and Science Committee. We will draw our conclusions to take steps to improve this thing, because without a new shift, Bulgarian science, as you know, will be lost. In terms of composition, as I noted in the previous report, we have one sustainability. The high criteria in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences are preserved and career development goes in a natural and normal way. A few strokes, again related to the spiritual life that boils, I would say, at our Academy. Perhaps many of you have noticed that in our hall, the great hall, practically every day there is something about national identity, culture, scientific manifestations of all kinds of activities. Last year, to mention the solemn celebration of the 140th anniversary of the April Uprising. We were also one of the organizers of the anniversary celebrations on the occasion of 150 years since the birth of Pencho Slaveykov under the patronage of Mrs. Fandakova, which was once again part of UNESCO's cultural plan. You know that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has four museums, three of which are among the oldest of the Archaeological, Natural Science, Ethnographic Museum. The colleagues from the Institute and the Ethnographic Museum are very active. Regarding the intangible cultural heritage, they were able to register the National Council in Koprivshtitsa in UNESCO's intangible cultural heritage. We noted the fact that already the "Surva" in Pernishko is listed in this representative list of UNESCO's intangible cultural heritage. These are things that we can only be proud of and our museums are extremely active in this area. Here I would especially like to point out in the second part of this slide an extremely appropriate initiative that we are doing together with the French Cultural Institute and the Bulgarian National Radio. Scientists from France arrive with scientists from Bulgaria and present important topics about the future development of science, at all, what awaits us in the future, discussed on the radio, at the French Cultural Institute are also usually debates on extremely hot topics that are expected in the near future. I'd like to introduce you to the beneficiary of the proceeds and transfers. As you will notice here, in 2016 there is a significant growth that is due to two things. Firstly, there is not a large increase in BAS's subsidy with regard to the classical subsidy that you are voting on here. But we would like to note in particular that in 2016, the government financed a target cyclotron at the Nuclear Institute by 3 million. BGN, as well as in December the government granted almost 6 million. lv. for work on targeted tasks related to education related to demographic problems, supporting young scientists, seismological risks, as well as in the field of archaeology. You can see the number, what a big increase. This is one of those additional subsidies that the Council of Ministers voted for targeted activities. Once again, own revenues and transfers are of the order of 55 million. lv. You noticed, and last year it was just over 55 million, now it's just over 54 million. lv. This is a graph that also shows stability... about where the proceeds come from, there are too many, I will not list them all. But we have significant contracts, as you will notice shortly, because it is important to say. This is a total distribution of the entire subsidy plus its own revenue. I mean, the subsidy that it is, plus the revenue that we have. As you can see, in this case, the subsidy, as I said, is a serious feather because of this 8-9 million. BGN, which came from above additionally. I forgot to mention in particular that we were funded for the repair of the ship Academic, which carries out the monitoring of the Black Sea. However, this sustainability that I spoke about in the previous report remains. The ratio between subsidy and own funds is in the order of 60:40% and the own revenues, as you can see, are roughly the same in recent years. Here are given our costs as a whole, but I may show the next which the National Assembly voted as a subsidy to know how it is distributed. Unfortunately, it is once again the same fact that a large part, as you notice, is even here more than three quarters, goes for salaries and social security. This is what we hope is a trend that maybe we can turn back together in the future. It was a picture of capital expenditure. In 2016, we didn't have the chance to carry out capital repairs much less than in 2015, but again we covered them with our funds, as well as in 2014 and 2015. Now a few conclusions and then two or three words I'll say in common and I'll finish with that. As I have already noted, we have an increase in that part of the bonding activity, which we very much care about, which is noticed by the world database, and the same is true of the citation. The total number of articles, as Mrs. Damyanova said, has fallen slightly, but the part of the one we nominate for the most important has increased. That's what I'd like to point out. With regard to the project activity, as at national level we have significant successes, as you notice 56% success rate in the session of the Fund Research, so we have success internationally. Fifteen new contracts appeared under the Horizon 2020 Programme at a solid amount of more than 3 million. Euros. With regard to pay, I can't help but note this problem, the salaries are low at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. You are all aware, so I will hardly tell you anything new here, in this part. I would especially like to point out something positive in this regard, and this is the Young Scientists Programme. We are very happy that this programme, which was financed by the Ministry of Education and Science at the end of 2015, received a sequel in the decision of the Council of Ministers in December 2015 to continue to have a targeted funding for young scientists. A few days ago was the deadline. Once again we have submitted more than 370 projects and now in about one month we will evaluate them and probably the same number of projects, as was the first programme, will be financed again for young scientists. This is extremely important, especially given what you noticed, that we have a decline in the defenses of PhD students. Now, a few activities around which I will concentrate I will not be able to list everything, but it is very important that I emphasise. The first, as I mentioned, we pay extremely much attention to increasing the quality of scientific production. This is what we care about and will be the continuous care of the management and not only of it, but of the scientific councils of the institutes. All institutes understand the importance of this part of improving the quality of our scientific production. Another important thing that we do not miss is our relationship with society and state institutions. We believe that our activity is not sufficiently popular and that is why we will make special efforts to promote the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. We have started an initiative "BAS" presents its. We have already presented three institutions of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and I can tell you that a very good interest is shown by both the media and young people. We invite young people to see how scientific activity is carried out, what the results are, we emphasize the effect of what the impact is on society and institutions. Without a doubt, an extremely important part is the work of our institutes in the field of humanities. We must strengthen the role of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences as the center of national identity. We attach extremely great importance to cooperation with higher schools and especially with research universities. The relationship of science is an education for us, in this case higher education is extremely important and we will continue to make efforts for the activities in this area. It is very important to stress that our relations with business must be significantly improved. Business expects more applied developments from us and we are ready to do everything possible on our part to improve this portfolio and get even more results. In this respect, we rely heavily on our regional academic centers, which tomorrow will become one more. In Varna we will open a Regional Academic Center and will become 15. Of course, we find it important that the government and state institutions are ready to finance targeted projects that are of extremely important public importance, which, as I have already mentioned, are education, demographic problems and some others. There, with the greatest pleasure and enthusiasm, we will take on such tasks. Without a doubt, our readiness to participate in a number of projects remains constant, both at national and international level. I have already mentioned this Programme for Young Scientists, which we will continue to develop further. Here again I will have to say that in terms of finance, the situation of what is arriving as a subsidy is not good and we hope that it will improve in the coming years, especially if a sustainable research development strategy is adopted. I would like to emphasise in particular that, for the quality work of scientific potential, it is also good to have adequate pay. What is important to mention here, I would like to stress that very often in the public domain it is said that project funding seems to be the only thing that funds science. There are warnings from many countries, both from Europe and we want to pay attention to the fact that project financing has always been complementary. There must be a sustainable institutional funding that supports the blood system of research and, accordingly, they must be successful in project funding. The project funding should have only one serious but complementary character, not only as a panacea for research development. I want to finish with three basic things. I hope that I have convinced you that there is extremely highly qualified scientific potential at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. As scientists we are about a fifth of the scientists in Bulgaria. As you have seen, that science activity, scientific publications that are visible from the world, which produces Bulgarian science is about half, i.e. one fifth of scientists produce at least half of the visible scientific production in Bulgaria. This means that this is a highly qualified scientific potential and internationally recognised, which is very important. This potential is capable of presenting Bulgaria to the world in an extremely dignified way. This potential is also extremely successful in the field of project work. You can see that the expertise they have collected makes them successful in the projects. As you can see in this ratio 60 to 40 per lev put by the state we bring almost one lev extra, which I believe is a very high utility factor. Last but not least, this human potential is able to solve at expert level a number of problems that stand before the state, before the public I mean mainly related to education, a number of problems that are important as expert for the state institutions, all state institutions, the National Assembly, the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and support the general development of Bulgaria. That is to say, a human potential highly qualified, successful in project work, highly successful in the field of expertise in the Republic of Bulgaria, I believe that we must do our best to preserve and further develop this human potential, and I hope that the National Assembly will assist our efforts in this regard. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer your questions. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the content statement, which I hope will help both the discussion and decision-making on the reports that are the subject of today's sitting. Thank you. Before that, honourable Members, allow me to give the Deputy Minister of Science and Education an opportunity. Ivan Dimov to take note of the topic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is an undisputed scientific and cultural centre of the country, a factor for economic and social development, for preserving our national identity, for forming a European image of Bulgaria as an active participant in the process of building a knowledge-based society. In implementation of fundamental and applied research in 2015 and 2016, BAS units attracted additional funding, which amounted to 27.5 million last year. BGN, as the largest share has the funding from ministries and departments. It represents 39%. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. Five hundred thousand. lv. It comes from the active participation of the Academy in the programmes of the European Union, NATO, UNESCO, UNESCO, Association of the Academy and Foundations. More than half of the projects won are on a program-competence principle both at national and international level. During the past year the share of the won projects of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in the competitions of the Fund of Science is 56% of all won projects. The participation of academics from the Academy in the European Framework Programme for Science and Innovation is noticeable and the President of the Academy presented specific data in this regard. Recommendation. In view of the forthcoming international evaluation of the Programme and its priority during the forthcoming Presidency of Bulgaria of the European Union, we recommend that a deeper analysis of the participation of BAS in Horizon 2020 Programme be presented. One proof of the significant place that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences scientists occupy in the European and World Research Area are the results of their scientific work. They report 8192 scientific articles, monographs and aids. The publications are referenced and indexed in the world reference and indexing system and represent half of the publications made by Bulgarian scientists. Recommendation. With regard to the statistical information contained in the report, publications in reference and indexed editions and patents, the sources of information should be indicated, in addition to the stated database of web-of-sines with a view to ensuring transparency, verification and comparability of the data. For this purpose, we recommend using the system of Sonix, which contains similar information. One of the main activities of the Academy during the year is aimed at the detention of young and capable scientists in Bulgaria in order to overcome the worrying trend of recent years for their reduction. The President of the Academy noted about the successful competition for young scientists, which we at the Ministry of Education also consider successful and made a significant contribution to improving the conditions of the work of young scientists. In this regard, we also have a recommendation. We consider it appropriate for BAS to offer a vision for the development of the academic staff as well as activities for attracting scientists from the Bulgarian scientific diaspora. In some areas, in some institutes, including the Institute of the President of the Academy, such things are done. We would like this to be extended to other areas of knowledge. I would like to point out that both in 2015, and in 2016 the active activity of the Student Institute at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences continued, which created opportunities to provoke the interest of young people from school to research. As a national center of spirituality during the reporting period, BAS has developed and activated public activity. There have been numerous events - roundtables, conferences, thematic discussions, press conferences, interviews, exhibitions dedicated to significant national and international events. Recommendation. In conclusion, an annual report presents a programme containing the main priorities of the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2017. We consider it appropriate to summarize this information in a separate section of the report by adding concrete measures, financial instruments and expected effects on the socio-economic challenges in accordance with the National Research Strategy, which, as you know, was adopted yesterday by the Council of Ministers and also the Innovation Strategy for Smart Specialization. In the preparation of the 2017 report, we would recommend defining the vision for the next period, which would give a better opportunity to overcome the trend for reporting the results and contribution of the Academy to the Public National Development Strategy. In view of the above, the Ministry of Education gives a positive assessment of the annual report and recommends that it be adopted. In conclusion, allow me, as a person who well knows the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on the inside, as I have been both a scientific secretary and a member of the Management Board of the Academy and I am a long-standing Director of the Institute of Information and Communication Technologies, to say that the new management of the Academy and the President are very seriously focusing on attracting capable young people from abroad, looking for forms for this thing to happen and we already have the first positive examples in this regard. The second thing I would also like to stress is that an important and useful activity is developing in attracting children and students to Olympiads in mathematics, informatics, physics, chemistry, biology. This thing has grown and you know well that the international Olympiads in which our children participate, they usually, if they are not in the first three, are in the first five! We consider this an extremely important achievement of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Mr. Chairman, thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u13	Thank you. Thank you to everyone we've listened to with attention to the Professor's exhibition. Dimov. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we are going to discuss the annual reports of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2015 and 2016. There are no prior requests, so I expect a sign from the auditorium. We will give everyone who wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Revalski! Today we are looking at the two reports of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2015 and 2016. We are carrying out an objectively late discussion and a timely one. This, however illogical, is a logical opportunity to debate with an analytical and reflexive approach in chronological order the activities of BAS in two consecutive periods and to assess in development the objective academic processes in these years. I would like to say that the political party GERB will support the systematic analysis in the reports, will vote for their adoption. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is undoubtedly a scientific and spiritual center in the Republic of Bulgaria. At a meeting of the Committee on Education and Science, I expressed satisfaction with the correct and comprehensive analysis in the report, the recorded achievements in the fields of academic activity, the trends in chronological order, both in structure and volume. The undisputed contribution to the Academy's scientific work is bright and in certain scientific fields professionally high. The new policies of work, the relationship with secondary school students and teachers working in the system are highlighted. The more favourable trend of growth of the annual budget and project funding has been highlighted. I also said in the Commission, and I will say now: the effects of capacity of useful action in a strategic plan are clear and visible. I will address some problems that bring a chronic taste and emerge as trends that require strong administrative and management intervention, and must be clearly highlighted in order to overcome and reduce their systemicity. First of all, I would like to share the lack of comparative quantitative and qualitative analysis of the results in development and perspectives, which is a sign of a lack of trends in the development of some scientific areas. Undoubtedly, there is chronic underfinancing and the involvement of wider project activities in the years. Secondly, several years there is no consistent and clear analysis of structural changes in the area of lag-back scientific units and processes in the different scientific fields. Thirdly, it became visible the practice in the reports to register a decrease in the volume of young scientists and highly palliative, or at least less effective care in this direction. The rate of annual regression of the presence scale of young scientists is frightening from 0.2 to 3,5 scientists to 26 years. This trend deepens and needs quick, informal management solutions to overcome it. This is only with financial impulses from the Ministry of Education and the state budget is not going to happen. The philosophy of engaging young scientific potential with applicable interactive contribution and capacity is a complex dialectic which is built with many incentives, including purely moral. I do not see proper support and measures in this direction, at least giving young scientists a chance to participate more operationally and more fully in the management systems of the Academy. Fourth, the drastic reduction in the defenses of PhD students by one third less than 2015, approximately 1000 left the academic system in this period, is not just a sign of financial incentives. There are clearly deeper reasons, and they must be carefully examined and serious measures taken to reduce those outlined as system processes. To create internal, academic and support mechanisms. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has a serious building fund and not a few acres of land to manage. What do we do with them? This could also be part of the objective analysis and report. Finally, I would like to put the issue of scientific plagiarism and the fight against it seriously once again. This is becoming an increasing problem and devalvirate scientific knowledge. Research and publications must bring contribution and discovery, importance both in regional, national and worldwide. Some technologies, in most parts not even so many, are developing quickly and their adequate applicability is extremely important. In my opinion, restrictive measures are needed to overcome these plagias processes with serious, reliable filters for their removal. Isn't it possible, I ask today, to introduce a single scientific public register of scientific publications in scientific fields, or cataloging these scientific publications, for easy and operational access and monitoring to monitor the quality of the publishing activity of scientific production, in order to have the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences own monitoring policy and contribution to this difficult battle, as expressed also by Professor. Stanilov in a meeting of the Commission. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Revalski! It is clear to all of us MPs: Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is the scientific and expert potential of the nation in order to give strategic directions and paths for their realization, a natural and important partner of the legislative and executive authorities with its expertise and scientific prognosis. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has its own integration policy research contribution to the nation, to our national identity, to the quality of the public activities of high scientific production, to adequate measures to overcome the demographic crisis, to support the quality of secondary education. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has a strong reason to admire the authority and dignity of the scientific profession. I wish you a dynamic rhythm, overcoming some emerging processes, deep scientific wisdom in the name of the prosperity of the Bulgarian state! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. [[Replications from PP "BSP for Bulgaria".]] There's lines? Sorry, I didn't notice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Dukova! You have graduated very optimisticly and gratefully to the scientists of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, who are our spiritual center, which is the oldest scientific institution. My line relates to the fact that you paid serious attention to young scientists at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the reduction of their number and, accordingly, the need for BAS to deal with this issue on its own. This is a question of the budget, it is a matter of state policy, which is related to the fact that a young scientist, in order to develop, needs appropriate decent pay. A 450 leva. I do not see how a young scientist can be in the situation to invest not only in his knowledge, but also to work in favour of the scientific development of each institution. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences' budget is systematically underfunded and there is no funding for research. It's all about paychecks! This is at least recorded in the 2015 and 2016 report. My line to you is: rather to pay attention to the budget when it is accepted, and this paradox, this humiliating situation in which the scientists of BAS are placed, is overcome. Otherwise, what are you doing? A budget that does not finance the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is adopted and for the course of the year some adjustments are started, i.e. an hour per spoon to provide funds to ease the system's plight. There must be urgent measures to stimulate young scientists, to be directed, to be maintained in order to have this potential! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u17	Thank you, too. Is there a second line? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u18	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman! I also had the opportunity to say in the Commission meeting, where the two reports of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences were discussed in detail, the reports are nice, they are structured well, according to modern standards. There's only one problem they don't have to deal with! The important thing for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is to put the issue in a global context. Why does this institution exist? What's the reason?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u19	Is the line to me?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u20	Yeah, yeah. What's the reason? We're a small-time guy. We deal with the consequences, not the reasons. The National Assembly is a political body. The political visions for the presence or absence of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences are created here above all. I call on Members of Parliament to bear this in mind when discussing this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u21	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Apparently, Mrs. Dukova will take the opportunity to have the back. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mrs. Bachvarova! I will not enter into a disastrous debate with the questions that you have asked, because in a sense there is logic and reason for what you said. In my presentation, however, I said: the funding really must be increased for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, although you refer only to young scientists and the processes that are developing. However, my analysis may not be academic, but it is professionally accurate. For just last year we have 40 million extra, which have been translated for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, so that it can do its work well, including with young scientists. For 2015 and 2016 only there are open programmes with 2 million each. BGN, which are only for working with the young capacity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. It seems quite illogical to me just to look at the country's financial injections that the budget has to give. It is easy for the opposition to speak in all directions of activity and expertise in all these directions to be provided according to what the budget contains. In view of this, with one part of your finding, I agree, and with the other one, I certainly do not. I said there should be special internal rules, special internal management decisions. In addition, I see the trends that academic Revalski, who has not yet one year since the management of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences as its chairman, I think he will succeed. Because his steps are clear, transparent, firm, deeply motivated, and I believe that this trend will be overcome in this regard because, when we talk about trend, things are already dangerous. I think it's exactly a question that's being asked to me by Professor. Christov. There is hardly anyone in this room who can't give himself a logical explanation for this illogical question: why does this Academy exist? I hate to break it to you, but as a professor, you could answer that. It is strategic for Bulgaria, it has in addition to the goal of high scientific potential and high results, and strategic and pragmatic solutions for Bulgaria. For me, if not for you, this is essential and I really wish success without excessive optimism of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, because we have given all reason to believe that our potential of a scientist, our research results go very far, even to space! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. The word has the people's representative Anelia Klisarova. I hope it's a success this time, I beg your pardon. Here you are, for a statement. [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I want to thank the Akad. Revalski for the detailed report, for the exact analysis he presented to us about the state and development of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. It even happened that we saw 2015 and 2016 and we can draw conclusions and comparisons. From the presented report, as was said earlier, it is obvious that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is this national scientific centre with a strategic role, a crucial role in the process of building the knowledge society. This knowledge society is linked to both economic and social and cultural life, and we are all convinced that BAS plays a major role in this. In addition, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has been proven to be a window into European and world science. Thus, we have links with European and world science, as well as with some other scientific companies. And last but not least, it is a crucial factor in preserving our national identity and our national pride, if I must say so. What do I mean right now? From the presented data.. about 60% of the budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is formed by its own income or this means that for each lev that gives the state of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'm not gonna tell you about the projects, the project start, I think we're all convinced of that. On the other hand, I have to emphasise a trend that I think is positive... the relationship of BAS with the business. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has always received some criticism that this is not happening, but at the moment 34% or a third of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences' own revenues have links with the business, with the industry, which also shows the practical focus of the scientists on the production of the so-called "scientific product" and not only publications and audience activity. For the entire period in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the public activity is very high. Yeah, there's criticism, there should be better magazines, refereeed. But one more thing to stress: one fifth of the Bulgarian scientists are focused in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and they give 40% of the scientific production in these reputable magazines, which is extremely important to be able to be heard, to be read in Europe and in the world. And after all this, what is the biggest problem, as has been shown in the report? This is a lack of funding of the research system in our country and this lack of funding leads to the following consequences, namely: the status of the Bulgarian scientist. I stress here the Bulgarian scientist, because not only young scientists, but those with great experience must have a decent place in society, a decent pay. And, of course, that's where the small number comes from, reducing the trend you're talking about to young scientists. How is that not gonna happen? According to the National Statistical Institute the average salary in BAS is 750 BGN. versus £1,300. for the country. Is this supposed to be the status and status of the Bulgarian scientist? And the salary of a young specialist at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, of a young researcher, is linked to the minimum wage. It is a minimum wage and is equal to the salary of the one who works with secondary or primary education at the Academy. A doctor's scholarship is higher than a doctor's salary. For me, it is an extremely important and serious problem, namely underfinancing, and I would therefore like to address the current government. Let us have a clear state policy to preserve and not only to preserve, but to increase the capacity of scientific potential, of research, not only in BAS, but also in universities! Because what's happening? Yes, we have this strategy, yesterday it was adopted by the Council of Ministers "National Strategy for Research Development." We also have a strategy or more precisely in our political platforms talking about how we will finance the system of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and Research. But, unfortunately, I guess this just stays on paper and I'll prove why it stays on paper. The project for National Strategy 2017 - 2030 envisions funding for science to reach 0.5% of gross domestic product, with a trend of 1%. This is a state subsidy and we want to reach, gentlemen, at least 3% of gross domestic product for science. That's what we've already recorded in the previous Research Development Strategy. And one more thing I would like to say: for next year 2017 - 2019 You can see the estimates of the Ministry of Finance, we will report: Ooh, for BAS we will give approximately one million! But, please, let's see that for this million, which is an estimate of an increase what will happen? The minimum wage is increased, the minimum social income is increased. They're growing up, and that has to happen. Will this million be enough just for research, for wages, and let alone for research? Therefore, we should pay particular attention to the 2018 budget, what will we allocate to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences? What should we particularly focus on for funding? Financing in fundamental and humanities. Humanities have much less contact with business. Their audience activity is smaller, but it is extremely important "Bulgarian language," Bulgarian history, for our national identity, for our national pride. Colleagues from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences win projects and sometimes they need co-financing. We need to ensure this co-financing for projects won, for example under the European Programme of Horizon 2020, the project is won, but after three years it expires. Very good equipment has been purchased, at a very high level and in the end there is no consumables and human potential to work with this equipment. That's where we need to focus our efforts. And, of course, the chain of fundamental science, applied science, patents, and their application in the market. So in conclusion, I would like to say: yes, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is our national scientific centre. I would like to wish them: thank you, colleagues, from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for working, for creating such a product appreciated at international level, for receiving such a high accreditation rating. Despite your efforts for the structural changes you have made, there are some better financial results, but the status of the Bulgarian scientist has not changed. Therefore, I wish we could make such a budget for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2018, so that we can improve the status of the Bulgarian scientist, and I wish you: work, conduct, despite the lower level of funding that the government provides! Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Replies from the National Representative Milena Damyanova.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Klisarova. For a statement, the popular representative Stoyan Mirchev has declared a wish. [[Reply from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev.]] I don't understand. [[Reply from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev.]] You don't give up after that, do you? Got it. Here you go, Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Anyone who takes account of the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences goes with the respect that scientists and academics deserve. BAS is a scientific and expert centre, at the same time it should be a structural defining component for statehood. However, this respect should be based on the work and achievements of scientists and not just a tradition and a routine. That is by no means a heretical doubt. We live in a dynamic and fast-growing world, and our society now requires that we keep up with both the research of the past and those scientific discoveries that will determine our common future. As everyone knows, we are wandering around in the present and looking for money to secure our existence. We have met the two reports on the activities of BAS for 2015 and 2016. We accept what is written, but we also take into account what is not said and is not written. At the meeting of the Committee on Education and Science, the answers to some questions did not receive the necessary depth. We've never been able to get into the heart of the problems. I am definitely not convinced that BAS's problems are only financial. Its overall activity deserves a serious and responsible attitude, and this also implies a serious discussion of both chronic financial failure, that is, the heavy responsibility of the state, given the requested priority, and the lack of courage and desire of the Academy to reform, to optimize its activities and to restructure it. Generally speaking, it is not particularly prestigious to be a scientist without really applicable scientific production, and your scientific developments do not contribute to the development of the country in the different aspects, plus the benefit of the country in quotes and without quotes, for the development of the economy. This insinuation of mine, of course, must be getting away with the self-assessment of everyone working at the dozens of BAS institutes. Dear colleagues, this is not an evaluation and analysis of the Prima Vista of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. It's not a voice against. We require BAS to be BAS at that scientific height and achievements that finally push, to help bring our society into the 21st century. We want a scientist not only to be known for his learning, but for his really applicable scientific developments in different areas of life. We want a working and creative Academy in which the ambition and energy of young people is in line with the experience and wisdom of established minds. We want an Academy that, with the scientific potential of the nation, is a real motor for the development of the country. We want science worthy of 1300-year-old Bulgaria. We want adequate management of weather conditions. When these efforts are made with a stately attitude towards science, our support will also be our constant policy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u27	Thank you. Are there any lines to the statement? Professor Stanilov for a line. First line.... prof......................................................................................... Stanilov, the second representative of the people Stoyan Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u28	Dear colleague Mehmet, I'm sorry you didn't pay attention to what I said. I've worked at this academy for 40 years, a little over 40 years. I have witnessed all the incarnations so to speak, of all the changes in this Academy, of all these weaknesses and priorities. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is restructuring, reformed according to European requirements and a guarantee of the truth of my words is the European audit carried out by a special committee at the request of the Academy of Sciences, by the European Association of Academies. This assessment shows that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is on average European level and was compared with the Portuguese Academy of Sciences. After this audit, a new restructuring was carried out, which was very painful. These restructurings have led to a weakness that I do not know how to correct. The Bulgarian scientist is a team leader, working almost without help. He performs his laboratory research on his own in most cases, alone or with his habilitated assistants, senior assistants, docs, perform all these operations, while in all European scientific institutions he has specialists, masters who do this work. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences works on overheating. This is the optimal thing that can happen now, even it is not quite normal. That is, when we go out on the stand, when we need to talk about the Academy, we must bear in mind this audit, because the political power that is now ruling Bulgaria is the party called Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria. It is not self-assessment that the self-assessment of scientists does not matter, it matters what the assessment of the international scientific community is, and it is carried out with this audit. The assessments of science are carried out in the same way with reviews. There's no other way. We're talking about fundamental sciences, not technical disciplines. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Dear Members, one moment, Mr President, bear in mind that we must bear some responsibility. I will make a separate statement on the problem that I am dealing with because it is a fundamental problem of state policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u29	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Second line.. People's representative Stoyan Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u30	Dear colleague, it is not funding that is one of the main problems, because when it is lasting and is long in time a failure to finance a system, this system starts to become sick, and when it is sick enough for a long time, it may eventually disappear. I will give you only a few data to disprove your statement that BAS needs to be reformed. The scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences are authors of 63% of the country's foreign publications, 72% of the country's patents, as well as 60% of Bulgarian authors' quotes in foreign scientific literary publications. The face of Bulgarian science in the world is BAS. And I will read you something else, which became a scandal at the end of 2016, when the budget was adopted and Mrs. Menda Stoyanova announced the scientists from the Institute of Biodiversity for beggars. And they gave the following statistics: they have as an Institute implemented projects projects s 23 for the European Commission, for the European Economic Area s 7, the National Science Foundation of the United States What do I mean by all this? Despite the secret underfinancing and deprivation of BAS, they continue to be the face of Bulgarian science and are fully adequate to the new realities in the economy and in knowledge worldwide. What you are directing for reform brings me to mind that, given the forthcoming huge European budget that will be poured into science, do you not have any interest in using some of these funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Mr. Mehmet, would you like to use the right to dodge? Here you are, you have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The ending was very interesting. I appreciate it, because just for the sake of science, we hadn't been blamed. We've lived through this. Actually, my critical attitude wasn't self-inflicted. It was more supportive. If you have noticed, I am returning to the distant memories of three or four minutes ago, I stressed the responsibility of both the state, given the financial failure and the responsibility of the Academy itself, but the main thesis is the scientific production to be really applicable, the scientific production of BAS to be used for the development of the economy as well as for the development of the society itself. In this case, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has always supported the allocation of additional funds for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, so we will continue with this policy. I'm sure this will be appreciated in dignity, but here the idea is not to be misunderstood and not every critical opinion to be evaluated in a negative way. Rather, the idea is to create a discussion and where there is a need to optimize the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and make this happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u33	Thank you, Mr. Mehmet. Any other speeches? Mr. Mirchev, come in, you made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Akad. Revalski! Every year in the National Assembly we accept the report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, we accept it with deserved applause. Another two reports show that under the worst conditions under which BAS has lived for years, it proves its capacity and its international competitiveness, its usefulness for the country and for the Bulgarian citizens. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences continues to be the leading research and spiritual center of Bulgaria. At this point, however, we should not be silent that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences achieved its results in spite of us politicians, despite the misguided state policy of both the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the science contrary to all world and European trends. That's what the European Commissioner for Science says. Is state policy wrong with BAS and science in Bulgaria? In the seventh year she went through cuts almost half the budget and investment in science. He went through political gems of a finance minister: We stop their money, they will close themselves. He went through another political gem of another finance minister: "Professors are not sought on the market." He has gone through the still unattended Strategy for the Development of Science and the risk of losing European funding under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." He went through blaming all attempts to solve the problems of science. Then why are we wondering that there are no young candidates for the scientific community? Why do we wonder that the golden Bulgarian minds do not remain in Bulgaria? Well, why would they stay? To get 450 leva. And be humiliated, Mrs. Dukova? Thousands of Bulgarian minds flow to those markets and to those countries that value them, and if we do not change our policy so far, we will soon not only have welders and not just tourism specialists, we will not have scientists and experts for anything else. I would not have reminded the two finance ministers of GERB if they had not expressed themselves to a sustainable disastrous policy of the eradication of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the oldest Bulgarian institution, a policy showing its face in every discussion of the state budget. Financial blood loss is neither related to efficiency nor to the capacity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. It was after a high and independent international assessment that Djankov halved the budget. It was precisely after recognition by the European Union of efficiency that the highest in the criterion of the "Current scientific result to the volume of funds invested' that BAS was deprived of the necessary minimum investment in 2017. And when we say that we are representatives of the people, it is unforgivable to act surprised and worried today, and not even to make the minimum possible when the time is right. Because when young talents and young scientists see that the Bulgarian state does not value them, it does not provide them with any prospect of development here in the country, they will not wait for the favor of anyone and will go where they value them dearly and respect them. When we accept the BAS report, we must ask the question: will the new Bulgarian government continue to work against the interests of the state, destroying the crops of Bulgarian science? Will he continue to pursue a policy that gives Bulgaria a place of undeveloped, leaving a country with a disappearing population? The alternative is: investment in science, investment in its development, support for BAS, real support for scientists, including young scientists, reflected in respect for their work, in normal pay for their work, in the prospect of their development. Then our medalists from the world Olympics will not leave Bulgaria, and BAS will not be ashamed of the conditions under which it works. Think about it. Only by building a knowledge society can there be a normal future for Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u35	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Here you are, Mrs. Dukova, for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I wouldn't take the floor for a line or a personal explanation. I do so for two essential reasons: firstly, because I very much respect the young people, in which part of the hall they are, the pace, if they are in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences first. Secondly, I appreciate both the political and still insufficiently mature political drive of Mr. Mirchev. There are sometimes good hits, but, let's say, he's young, he learns. I'm sure he will. I would like to call mainly on young people: let this not become a principle. Leave the confrontational policy and unproven knowledge expressed by the stands. The oldest institution makes an apostrophe because it's illogical to speak untruths from here, even when you're not a professor if he's just your father. The oldest Bulgarian institution is the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. I admire that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is a spiritual center many years back, but we must give a clear, correct and fair assessment when we talk about these things. Graduating, I say: except that I want you to be constructive opposition, education, you know it's conservative territory. [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] , but it is extremely common territory. In recent times, the opposition is mainly involved in development. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria, the President gives a signal that the time has run out]] , scenarios and non-professional attacks. [[(Replicates from the BSP for ……]] Stop! Bulgaria is for everyone, not just BSP. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. Are there any lines to Mr. Mirchev's statement? I can't see. Professor Stanilov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Of all the truths that have been said in the Chamber, both by government and by opposition, by all the things that we ask each time we talk about research science in Bulgaria, not only at the Academy of Sciences, we talk, we can ask a question that I have asked many times. Few of the people who have been in previous parliamentary mandates know that I will constantly repeat myself because that is what I am doing. In fact, I am a lobbyist of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences here, probably because I am part of it. There remains one fundamental question, which I have also asked in the presence of the Prime Minister: is there a Bulgarian nation and its country's attitude towards high brain matter, if I may say so, and is it necessary for our country, our society? Does it need them? Because during the Renaissance, when the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences was founded, when our Revivals formed its forefathers, the Bulgarian Book Society, participated the Apostle Vasil Levski and gave half a golden lira to form this company, understood that without knowledge there is no nation, there is no country, there is no Europe, there is no modernity. There's nothing without knowledge. Do we have that question? Here, when I talked about these problems, I think it was GERB's first term, in the presence of Mr. Borisov I asked: who convinced the Bulgarian Prime Minister that the Bulgarians are simple, stupid and stupid and do not need science? Who?! Who poured 27 years on the heads of Bulgarian scientists shit? Who called them feudal old men, agents of State Security, backward people who can't think, who don't do anything, who are projectors of the budget, all of them? And those who called them that, and those who did not call them, are to blame for the current state because, whoever has ruled Bulgaria, constantly since the changes, since the liberal revolution has been a continuous decline. When this issue was put in the mandate of the Triple Coalition in the distant year 2005, the salaries of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences were still not increased. 120 million were given to the Science Research Fund, a monstrous sum, of which two thirds were stolen, colleagues, literally. And to this day in this process, the then spending of this money has not been audited. No results, no results. Two thirds of the projects were carried out by private companies and commercial companies for empty topics, but no one said it and raised it, only the scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the universities settled scandals on the press, but none of it worked out. So whatever money is being given, if you don't create a distinct organization for their spending, it won't work. But that kind of money, of course, is not given. The question of young scientists, who all colleagues, without exception, touched on that there was care that there was a million and two million. No, the young scientists aren't coming to the Academy. People who graduate from foreign universities who graduate from our universities with distinctions that relate to knowledge and draw them from within to this knowledge will not come to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and universities to engage in science, for the simple reason that the salaries they receive do not have enough for the ordinary existence to create families, to create children, to raise them and so on and so forth. Why is what the Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences said true about PhDs and their defenses that fall? But he didn't say one very important moment. The defense of doctoral dissertations for the very simple reason: they work in two or three more places to be able to eat. Because with 450, 460 leva. You can't eat, there's no way. There's no such thing, it doesn't happen, but by budget and by pay, it actually happens. How can they stay?! The same goes for young people. Not many people know it. The scientific diaspora of the Bulgarians is two thirds of the entire capacity. Two thirds of everything - Bulgarians working scientific, research work are outside. Also calls for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to have good management and to receive money are long-standing calls with which I might, for example, support myself. I'm asking, does the Great Collider in Switzerland not support himself? Again I will tell you a corny phrase, which according to the protests of Bulgarian scientists repeat it: elementary particles on the Women's market are not sold. Therefore, fundamental research disciplines everywhere are financed by the state budget. The ratio between project financing and state subsidy in Bulgaria is abnormal. Normal and mid-European is as follows: 85% state subsidy, 10% projects and 5% private business. That's normal. It's in Germany, which we constantly turn to. So we close our eyes, and with many words we talk in common, but one thing remains: do we need this, or do we not? We say it clearly, and if we don't, we shut it down and that's it. Do you know from gross domestic product what the approximate ratio is? In Europe it's 1.5, in America it's 2 and in Japan it's 2.5. Do you know how much it was with us? For example, I know from two years ago: 0.19 that's it. [[Noise and lines.]] This is the bitter truth we face. If this is not fixed in the coming years when we are discussing the state budget, Mrs. Klisarova has affected him, we are simply transferring the ball from the ruling opposition and vice versa and so on and we are doing nothing. And that's everyone's responsibility. There is no politics here, although science is also a policy Do we have a connection to this, do we need to, do we have an understanding? I will tell you that in the distant 1992, the number of MPs who came from academic circles was about 30. How many are there now?! It's just me from the BAS. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u39	Thank you, Professor. Is there any lines to Professor Scully's statement? Stanilov? I can't see. Willing MPs for speeches on the point? Docent Mihov. [[Noise and lines.]] That leaves us with a vote. I suggest we finish this point, so I'm not calling a break. If you agree to continue, this will probably be the last statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will try to be brief and address two problems that exist in the two reports. They were discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Education and Science and I think they are at the root of all problems concerning the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and, in fact, the development of Bulgarian science today. I will step on a statement by the Apostle of Liberty Vassil Levski, who says: "For the revolution, we need two things - people and money. We have people, we have no money. This report shows something quite old that the Academy doesn't have money, but it seems that we are going through the other big problem? the question of people who are very worried. I made two simple calculations from the data presented by 2707 scientists at the Academy between 60 and 65 years of age are 468 people. There's only 100 people in 30 years. If we have to visualize it, the hundred are only caught on one of these blocks. In four years' time, 460 will leave the Academy, and it is questionable whether these 100 to 30 years will stay at the Academy. The problem with the personnel potential of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences actually opens up the personnel issue in Bulgarian science. In my debates, I was impressed by two things the Academy puts on scientific staff about stimulating young doctoral students, and the second to opening the Academy to Bulgarian scientists abroad. The debates talked about returning scientists to Bulgaria. I would say about working together between scientists in Bulgaria and scientists abroad to build a common Bulgarian scientific community outside the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria, which unites our partners, colleagues, friends, fellow students who work in Europe and abroad. In this direction it is necessary legislative and financial strengthening of Bulgarian science, in particular the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, as well as efforts by the institutions themselves and scientists to open the institutions, to open our approach to working together with our colleagues who still guard Bulgarian science, keep the attachment to Bulgarian science and to their colleagues here. We will support the report, but with it we must draw conclusions about our joint work, because politics with science cannot be done! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-18.u41	Thank you, Assoc. Mihov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other MPs wishing to speak on the subject? I can't see. We are going to vote on the decisions proposed in the Commission report. As stated, the decisions will be two, separately for the 2015 and 2016 reports. The proposed decisions are as follows: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the Annual Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 3, para. 3 of the Law on the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2015 Please vote. Vote 154 MPs: for 145, against none, abstentioned 9. The decision's been made. We vote next: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the Annual Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 3, para. 3 of the Law on the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2016 Please vote. Vote 158 MPs: 149, none, abstention 9. The decision's been made. Dear Members of Parliament, with this the agenda for today's sitting has been exhausted. Message for parliamentary control for tomorrow. I turn your attention to the fact that tomorrow, parliamentary control will begin at 9:00, which includes: Participation of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov with answers to four questions from the MPs Vasil Antonov, Nikolay Ivanov, Georgi Gokov and Stoyan Mirchev. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer a question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov. The Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov will answer two questions raised by the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Elena Yoncheva along with Violeta Jeleva and one question by the MP Anelia Klisarova. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer five questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Svetla Bachvarova, two questions, Doria Yankova and Krastina Taskova. Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer a question raised by the MP Dimitar Danchev. Postpone answers by seven days have requested: - Deputy Minister of Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on two issues from the MPs Vassil Antonov and Ivo Hristov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Petar Petrov and to a question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Petar Hristov Petrov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov and Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to three questions from the MPs Pencho Milkov, Krum Zarkov, Georgi Stoilov, Dora Yankova and Atanas Kostadinov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelakova to a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov, one question from the National Representative Mihail Hristov and two questions with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answer to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov to the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov is postponed. Due to a prior commitment to the parliamentary control meeting, Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will not participate. Honourable Members of the National Assembly will open an exhibition dedicated to the Bulgarian alphabet on the occasion of May 24th in the Northern lobby. The exhibition presents the use of Cyrillic in the digital sphere, in personal, public and business correspondence. All MPs are invited. I'm adjourned today's session. The next meeting is tomorrow at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
