ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] We start with yesterday's item one: LEGISLATION OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PRE-SCHOOL AND SCHOOL MOVEMENT. The People's Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017. Report from the Committee on Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Please allow the following persons to enter the hall: Tanya Mihaylova "Deputy Minister of Education and Science; Emilia Lazarova " Advisor to the Minister of Education and Science; Kaloyan Damyanov " Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u3	Please vote on the proposal made.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u4	Vote 165 MPs: 161, against 3, abstention 1. Please allow the faces in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u5	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education, No 754-01-14, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017. At its regular meeting on 19 June 2017, the Committee on Education and Science examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education, No 754-01-14, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017. The meeting was attended by: Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, Tanya Mihaylova, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Maria Semerdjieva and Emilia Lazarova, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Yordanka Petrova, Minister of Education and Science, Johanna Germanova and Stefka Lymanska, Head of Departments at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Yanka Takeva, Chairman of the Syndicate of Bulgarian Teachers, Asen Alexandrov and Diana Stamatov. The bill was presented by the MP Anelia Klisarova, who stressed that the proposed changes aim to lead to quality education and equal access to education. The bill proposes: - part of the State Educational Standards to be adopted by the National Assembly; - to drop funding from the state budget of private schools, which will overcome the disproportions between state, municipal and private schools; - to create different types of schools, to achieve a greater variety of schools, such as mathematical, artistic and others; - introducing a textbook by subject for each class as a way to avoid corruption practices at the expense of the quality of training; - in order to reduce the risk of dropping out of fifth grade education, it is envisaged that the student will repeat the classes at an initial stage; - to regulate in the law a minimum threshold of 4% for funding education. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev presented the opinion of the Ministry on the submitted bill. He said that the Ministry has notes of a different nature, some of them are conceptual in terms of auxiliary schools, of repeating a class, others are more of a legal nature, such as the adoption of state educational standards by the National Assembly. Regarding the proposal to drop the possibility of financing private schools, Minister Valchev said that this concept has been developed for many years, but in the Bill it has not been proposed consecutively. In the Preschool and School Education Act, private schools have the choice to be included in state funding, but they need to fulfil certain conditions, namely to ensure equal access. The proposal for state educational standards to be adopted by the National Assembly is contrary to the Law on Legislative Acts. The Ministry of Education and Science does not accept the proposal to return to auxiliary schools. The proposed change does not correspond to the philosophy of the Preschool and School Education Act for the inclusion of every child and student. These schools have already been converted into Special Education Support Centers that can provide specialized assistance in accordance with the specific needs of the child. Failure to repeat a class in the initial stage is not new for our educational system, it is also regulated in the already repealed Law on People's Education, turned into a basic concept and into the Law on preschool and school education. The proposal to approve a textbook on a school subject is contrary to good European practice and would violate the principle of transparency and objectivity. The regulation in the Bill of increasing funds for education to 4% of GDP runs counter to the Public Finance Act. The opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy was presented by Stefka Lymanska, head of the Department of Labour and Labour Mobility, who said that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy did not support the submitted bill, which was also discussed by the National Council for Disabilities and was also not supported. Attitudes on the submitted bill took representatives of trade union and non-governmental organizations. Mrs. Yanka Takeva, Chairman of the Bulgarian Teachers' Syndicate, expressed her opinion that it is too early to amend the Law on pre-school and school education because there is a complaint lodged at the Constitutional Court. The law works less than a year, for which its essential manifestations cannot be seen. She proposed to form a working group of representatives of all parliamentary parties, and when at least two years pass, it should analyse the effect of the application of the Law and assess which texts should be reformulated and supplemented. Ms. Takeva believes that it is necessary to reconsider the curriculums and plans, and with the proposal to adopt the state educational standards of the National Assembly the system would be blocked. She expressed her opinion that social policy should go through the educational system. Danny Koleva from the National Network for Children stressed that at the end of the adoption of the Law on pre-school and school education a consensus was reached, which cannot be said for the adoption of state educational standards. The law takes an essential step towards the education reform we all have long awaited. A clear vision and a roadmap on how to apply it for the next 3 years will help enter the system into dynamic equilibrium. Changes must be made following an assessment of the impact of the Law and expressed a clear disagreement with the changes relating to social Tsveta Brestnitsa from the Association "Parents" expressed her opinion that the proposed amendments are in contradiction with the philosophy of the Law. Children should be joined and schools should have greater autonomy. The proposal to introduce an initial evaluation of education would lead to their division and segregation. The imposition of a textbook on a subject shows mistrust of teachers, and they are the ones who can best judge the needs of specific children. Maria Karabelyova from the "Prosveta" Foundation stressed that the bill shows poor legislative equipment, contradicts the Law on Legislative Acts and contains very controversial ideas, which are rather harmful to education. The following discussion was attended by the MPs: Snezhana Dukova, Stanislav Stanilov, Irena Anastasova, Donka Stoyanova, Milena Damyanova. Professor. Stanilov expressed the position of the United Patriarchs for the differentiated use of a textbook on humanitarian disciplines and several textbooks on natural sciences. The consensus reached on the financing of private schools does not imply a new debate on the issue. People's representative Irena Anastasova said that acrobing is done before, not after the adoption of the laws, but with the adoption of the Law on preschool and school education, the system is thrown into experiment. She expressed a position that state educational standards regulate important public relations and can be adopted by the National Assembly. It does not deny that the Law should have happened, that there are many good things in it that should have happened, but there are a number of provisions that should have been changed. National Representative Donka Simeonova expressed support for inclusive education as an idea and philosophy, but also an opinion on the preservation of auxiliary schools. Milena Damyanova expressed satisfaction with the support of the philosophy for inclusive education because it is key to the Law and stands in its basis. She expressed her confidence that the Ministry of Education and Science will help both schools and kindergartens in the event of inclusive education, which is not an easy process. With regard to the auxiliary schools, all opinions and opinions have been taken in the drafting of the Law and consensus has been obtained, in practice they have not been closed, they have been converted into Special Education Support Centers in order to enable communication with schools. After a vote with results: the Committee on Education and Science proposes that the National Assembly should not adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education, No 754-01-14, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Peeva. The word has the Committee on Budget and Finance to imagine the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education, No 754-01-14, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017. At a meeting held on 20 July 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Pre-school and School Education Act submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Education and Science Tanya Mihaylova. On behalf of the importers, the reasons for the introduction of the bill presented Mrs. Svetla Bachvarova, who said that it will improve the organization of activities and standards in schools. The main changes are: - state educational standards to be adopted by the National Assembly; - dropping state funding of private schools; - a more flexible educational structure creating conditions for higher educational results; - a restoration of technicians, such as specialized public schools, is offered; - introducing the rule one textbook per subject for each class; - to be able to repeat until the fourth grade if the student has not shown the necessary knowledge and skills; - a minimum threshold of 4 percent of GDP to finance education. Deputy Minister Mihailova motivated the failure to support the bill by the Ministry of Education and Science, saying that the state and municipalities are obliged to provide conditions for children's coverage and prevent early school drop-out. Regarding the proposal to drop funding for the education and training activities of children and students training in private kindergartens and schools, the Ministry is of the opinion that the state's commitment is to promote education regardless of whose ownership the kindergarten or school is. The introduction of a textbook by subject will put at risk the provision of the system with approved cognitive books and study aids. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance suggests that the National Assembly should not adopt the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Pre-school and School Education, No 754-01-14, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. And the Commission's report on children, youth and sport. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u9	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education, No 754-01-14, submitted by Ms Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017. At its extraordinary meeting held on 20 July 2017, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Pre-school and School Education, No 754-01-14, submitted by Mrs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Tanya Mihailova Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Mrs. Sonya Krustanova Director of Finance at the Ministry of Education and Science, Teodora Ivanova Secretary General and Tsvetelina Georgieva State Expert at the State Agency for Child Protection. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Vesela Lecheva, who explained in her statement that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on pre-school and school education aim to realize the commitment of the state to guarantee a higher level of mass education, conditions for quality education in all schools, initial professional training for young people, as well as future successful development of the graduates. The Bill proposes that the majority of the basic State Educational Standards should be adopted by the National Assembly, that state funding for private schools be dropped, that technicians be restored as specialized schools, the introduction of the rule of a textbook by subject for each class, also - the annulment of the text in the current law - the children until IV do not repeat the year. With regard to pedagogical staff, the ongoing qualification of teachers is proposed. Regarding the standards of action within the Commission's competence, importers propose that the social pedagogical boarding schools should not accommodate students who have performed anti-social activities, but only students who do not have adequate living conditions in the family or who are deprived of parental care and supervision, as well as the obligation to be present in the team to support the personal development of representatives of the child protection authorities. Written observations were submitted to the Commission, in which the bill is not, for the most part, supported by specific or principled support for certain texts. For the proposed amendments and additions to the standards relating to children at risk (Art. 44), all the opinions presented reject them on the grounds that new institutions for children are thus created, and this goes against the policy of deinstitutionalization of child care. The amendments to art. 188, related to the obligation to be present by representatives of the child protection authorities in the composition of the personal development support team, is not supported by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the State Agency for Child Protection and the Institute for Social Activities and Practices. Their motives are that the current provisions of the Preschool and School Education Act provide for support teams to include representatives of the child protection authorities if necessary. The Departments of Child Protection shall be included when it is identified that the child is at risk. In all other opinions, this proposal is supported as it relates to the extension of measures aimed at disciplining students and the commitment and responsibility of other state authorities outside the education system. People's representatives Vesela Lecheva, Galya Zaharieva, Mihail Hristov, Theodora Halacheva, Hristo Prodanov, Ivan Chenchev, Yordan Yordanov and Sevim Ali took part in the discussion. In the course of the discussion, a few important accents were addressed. People's representative Mihail Hristov raised the question about the access of children with disabilities to the material school base for which the state owes. Mr. Yordan Yordanov drew attention to the representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science in the working groups, which draw up state educational standards, to include pedagogical specialists working in schools, not just experts from NGOs. People's representative Sevim Ali voiced support for the proposal to cancel the current provision for children up to the fourth grade not to repeat the year and the proposal for a textbook on a school subject, but said he did not find the arguments of the importer for dropping the state funding of private schools convincing. National Representative Galya Zaharieva stated her opinion on rejecting the proposed amendments and additions with the reasons that the principle of state funding of private schools was laid down in 2006. in the National Education Programme adopted by consensus of the National Assembly. In addition, under the provisions in force in the Law, the financing of private schools is under strict control. The possibility of choosing more than one textbook per item also creates conditions for a competitive environment and reduces the risk of corruption practices. According to Mrs. Zaharieva, a small part of the proposed texts in the Bill are legally unsupported and unfounded. National Representative Teodora Halacheva requested information from the Ministry of Education and Science whether the State Educational Standard for Physical Environment has already been drawn up. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, with 6 votes for the vote, 8 votes against the vote and 5 abstentions, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports suggests that the National Assembly should not support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education, No 754-01-14, submitted by Mrs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u10	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. I now give the floor to the importers. Here you go, Professor. Klisarova, present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u11	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In 2016 educational reforms were launched, regulated by the new Preschool and School Education Act. With good intentions, but unfortunately, the public assessment for them is far from positive. The Law entered into force on 1 August 2016 without available basic standards by which it is intended to operate this Law. At the entry into force of the Law only four standards were established, which had to be until 19. Late adoption of standards has led to great chaos in the education system. They were accepted on the move. There was even a statement by the Minister of Education that no checks will be carried out in schools on the implementation of the new Law. At present, there are still standards that have not been written, and the students last year, the school year 2016, started in the first voice without letters, in the fifth class without textbooks. The programs of the sixth and seventh grade had to include subjects and educational requirements that were for the eighth grade, which led the children to the opportunity to study scrolls, teachers were extremely burdened, filled with information, administrative paperwork, by unfulfilled claims. What led to this? Increases the growth of dropouts. In 2015, it was 29,000, in 2016 it was 37 500. The number of graduates who have no qualifications is growing, they have no knowledge. Functional literacy remains at critical levels for a large number of students. Against the background of the deep inequalities in society, the social, regional, and the inequalities in schools, between schools, are also growing. The closure of small schools in turn leads to an increase in the growth of prematurely dropping out of education children and to a new, more acute depopulation of settlements. All these and many more arguments have led us to make and propose changes to the current Law, which must regulate the commitment of the state to quality education and equal access to education of all Bulgarian children. What we propose with the Draft Law is that the basic state educational standards should be adopted by the National Assembly, not all colleagues, I stress, and not that this contradicts the Law. Because it's a lasting social relationship. You know, the purpose of the Law was to make new curriculums so that there would be new educational content, from there a very quality textbook. Any luck? No. We have no results, because the curriculum under the current rules can be changed every year. Which parent agrees or does his child's teacher study on a new curriculum every year? Dropping state funding for private schools. This creates further growing inequalities in the way of access to the material base, the pay of teaching work, inequality in residence, inequality in regional peculiarities. This should not be allowed, so we propose that there should be no public funding for private schools. We're not against the Law on Private kindergartens and Private Schools. They must be supported and developed, and such forms are happening now. There are free textbooks and teaching aids, scholarships for students, educational and methodological support for teachers and students, access to national European programmes. You know, from 86 schools nearly 50% have been declared innovative schools. This proves that private schools have all the rights to those of the state. What do we suggest as a third point? A more flexible educational structure and creating conditions for higher educational results. What does that involve? Let there be a diversity of schools. As the interests of our children are diverse, we must support their development. We should not leave only such schools in the field of arts, culture and sport. We offer such schools to have in the field of mathematics, natural sciences, technology, humanities, national security. This will create conditions to preserve and develop children with their needs, interests and talents. How do we feel about vocational education? Our Law must be in line with this Law on Vocational Education. Colleagues, in order to be able to include the dual system in vocational education, there must also be schools that will accept students from the tenth grade. After united schools, this is how we become in sync with the new law. The introduction of the law for one textbook per item. It's a very controversial subject. They say children are different, so teachers should be able to choose which textbook to work on. Sure! Right, yes, but let's see the truth. Kids are different in class, and in class you can't work on different textbooks. We offer a basic textbook, a basic textbook to guarantee the knowledge to be learned by the students, and at least three aids to it. Here, with these aids will express the master's work, namely a straggler with such a helper to be able to catch up with the processes; a child who is doing very well on the subject with such a help to enable his development and to develop ahead. So the philosophy of violating the ability and creativity of teachers is at all wrong. The project envisions students from the second, third and fourth classes to repeat if they have not shown the skills and knowledge, the competences required for the relevant level. And I'll tell you why! They need to learn work, discipline, get the attitude that progress requires the achievement of certain criteria, and in their entire lives they will be evaluated anyway. Of course, it is very important in the second, third and fourth grade how we will give the information to the students. We will not condemn any child: No, you cannot go forward! We'll look for ways to motivate him. But if we don't literate the kids by fourth grade, fifth grade dropout is a sure thing. A very important point in our proposals is a more effective system for qualification and career development of teachers. Colleagues, it is extremely important for our teachers to be able, to know, to constantly develop and qualify. In our changes we offer more hours and more flexible methods for conducting the qualification and continuous development of the teacher. The last thing I want to say is this: it is serious and we need to introduce measures and norms aimed at the discipline of students, the norms requiring state authorities outside the education system to participate in the activity of inclusive education and to combat aggression. Finally, in order for this to happen, we must, when determining the budget for the next school year and the state budget, at least 4% of gross domestic product should be for education. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Klisarova. You have the floor for speeches on the presented Bill, honourable Members of Parliament. Here's your speech, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u13	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Preschool and School Education Act entered into force on 1 August 2016, a month and a half before the new school year and put the entire education system to the test. At the heart of his philosophy is inclusive education. Undoubtedly, inclusive education is the priority of many countries in the world, and we therefore support the idea of it. However, inclusive education places the child at the heart of his individual needs and the diversity of his requirements. Communicating education also requires significant public consensus and time to be realized. What happens in our education system? Parents, teachers, representatives of institutions in various ways, with various means, have repeatedly expressed the disapproval of the new regulation. Surely the Law has its merits, but certainly one of them is not that it is a quality legal document for the education system, which concerns each of the families. What are the results one year after the adoption of the Law? First, the law is large in volume, there are more than 400 texts. At the same time, however, it does not provide specific answers to significant questions, but merely declares a wish, in which way implementation will be given in the standards. Unfortunately, however, when the Law came into force, there were only four standards. Late adoption of standards is another example of a lack of coordination in the development of new regulations. What happened at school? Chaos, vague regulatory requirements, responsibility for teachers and directors without clear definition of rights and obligations, ignoring the tradition in Bulgarian education, the curriculum and curricula should be state documents. Unregulated clear mechanism for cooperation between institutions, uncertain necessary financial and human resources. The aggression at school is not controlled. The number of dropouts continues to increase. Concerned parents of children with special educational needs because of a vague perspective. Concerned, scared, humiliated, exhausted to the limit teachers. Pain, anger and frustration! And this happens to most teachers because they are entangled in a relentless system of administrative requirements. Their rights have not been regulated. However, their duties and responsibilities are not required for their qualification. Bureaucracy and the huge documentation shifts the focus from the most important child to be the center of attention. The saddest joke that is currently relevant among teachers is that this regulation has led to the fact that our students and children are preventing us from doing our job. The great Bulgarian revolutionary Hristo Botev in his work, Kalup for teachers, sadly says: The teacher must be patient as an ox, good as a lamb and body healthy as a Bitola beggar. [[GERB lines.]] Is that what we want from our teachers? You can't create people with a position when you're constantly overwhelmed and depressed! You can't raise people without being free! The changes we propose are related to the responsibility of the state. They arise from a continuing discussion and are provoked by the opinions of the people who implement the Law. The objectives of the changes we propose are for the quality of education, equal access to all children, improving the qualification and motivation of teachers. Better educational environment and sustainability of the educational system. The topic of Bulgarian education should always be at the centre of the public debate. The philosophy of the Law should be that every child, teacher and parent feel well accepted and appreciated in society, which understands and respects different things. Finally, I end up grateful to my colleagues, teachers. Thank you, colleagues, that despite the problems in the education system you accept your work as a cause for the future of Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. The word asked for Deputy Minister Tanya Mihaylova. You have the floor, Mrs. Mihaylova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u15	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to the presented Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education, No 754-01-14, the Ministry of Education and Science expressed the following opinion: The Bill proposes that some of the state educational standards should be adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science. The proposed orders pose the following legal problems. Although the bill does not specify the act by which the National Assembly will adopt these standards, the only option, according to art. 86 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, this is to be done by Law. We believe that the proposal does not correspond to art. 10 of the Law on Laws, according to which public relations from the same area are governed by one and not by several regulations of the same degree. The laws by which the National Assembly would adopt the standards could not qualify as special laws in relation to the general, but would further develop at the level of the law matter the legislator has delegated to the executive bodies at present. The proposals made for the most part do not appear to be amendments with regard to the current legal framework in art. 22 paragraphs 3, 4, 6, 7, 9 and 10. The proposal to expand the scope of specialized schools through the introduction of new types of mathematics and sciences, humanities and public sciences, technology and national security, and technicians, is not supported by the Ministry of Education and Science. The addition of schools that are preparing in the field of natural sciences, mathematical sciences, humanities and public sciences, technology and security, and of technicians to the group of specialized schools that are preparing in the field of sport, arts, culture and the needs of religion, practically completes all areas in which training is carried out in school education. He also added an area under which no general training was carried out. Beyond that, the use of mathematical science should be refined to the extent that there is no such use in a scientific field. It should also be noted that the proposal for technicians to carry out training after completed XII grade is contrary to the legal definition of school under art. 25 of the Law, according to which the defining characteristic of this institution is that it provides conditions for the completion of a class and stage, or for the acquisition of a degree of education. The proposed possibility for education in schools of culture and art schools to start from the ninth grade is not in line with the concept laid down in the Law, as well as with the other provisions. The absence of special provisions in this direction would lead to the inability to apply the provisions in force in the Law on these students. The Ministry of Education and Science does not support the proposal made to add to the special schools of schools for students with special educational needs that do not allow them integration into the school of general education. In practice, this means returning to the system of preschool and school education auxiliary schools. These changes do not correspond to the philosophy of the Law on Inclusive Education of each child and every student in the ordinary kindergarten or school, together with his peers in appropriate support for personal development. Opportunity for such support is provided in special educational support centres for children and students. At present, socio-pedagogical boarding schools are special schools where students are trained with deviant behaviour, against which the relevant regional court has imposed a educational measure. In socio-pedagogical boarding schools are accommodated minors over the age of 8 and minors who have performed anti-social activities, to which educational measures have not proved sufficient for their normal upbringing and there is no appropriate social meeting. The distribution of minors in socio-pedagogical boarding schools is indeed carried out by the Ministry of Education and Science, but it depends on the number of decisions entered into force by the respective regional courts. Failure to repeat classes from the initial stage is not new for our educational system. It is also regulated in the already repealed Law on People's Education. It has also been transformed into a basic concept into the Preschool and School Education Act, with which a number of other elements arise: the idea of the student, who is at the heart of the educational process; the idea of individualizing the educational process taking into account the various interests, opportunities and paces for personal development; the idea of inclusive education, oriented towards offering adequate general and additional support and based on achievements, not on students' failures. In this sense, leaving a student to repeat even in the early classes contradicts the spirit of the Law. The Ministry of Education and Science does not support the proposals made for a textbook or study kit, because a textbook on the subject poses a corruption risk and does not guarantee an objective and transparent choice. The Minister of Education and Science approves the draft textbooks and study kits which, based on the evaluation, have been found to comply with the state educational standard for cognitive books, textbooks and textbooks and have been developed on the basis of established programs and are applicable in practice. The teacher is given an opportunity to choose. The approval of only one textbook for each class, for each subject will distance our country from European practices. The existence of several textbooks on a particular subject will not hinder the examination and assessment of students' knowledge and skills, as there is a mandatory requirement for textbooks to have a common structure and consistency of subjects in accordance with the curriculum. The distribution of textbooks by the Minister under the Public Procurement Act will make the process of issuing and distributing approved cognitive books, textbooks and teaching aids available for free use. At present, PMS No 79 of 13 April 2016 to ensure the free use of cognitive books, textbooks and teaching aids sets out the regulations of the funds for their purchase, regardless of the author or publisher. Competition between publishers and authors leads to better quality of textbooks and lower prices. In a competitive textbook market, all publishers will strive to offer the best. At the same time, the unlimited number of aids will have an indirect effect on another problem in the elementary school. The teacher is involved in evaluating the suitability of textbooks and study kits. Each teacher chooses textbooks and teaching aids that are provided for free use, depending on the level of knowledge of students in the class and the specifics of the specific educational environment. The choice shall be agreed with the Public Council, which shall have at least three parents' representatives. As regards inclusion in the personal development teams, the Ministry of Education and Science considers that representatives of other institutions not employed by the director of kindergarten or school will make it difficult for the work of the teams created in the school itself. In addition, their participation depends on a specific need to carry out the evaluation, which does not require the permanent composition of the support team for the personal development of the child or student, but to participate as necessary. The compulsory qualification of 48 hours for the period of attestation in the existing text in the Law is introduced for the first time. The effect has not yet been measured and the impact of the application of this text by the Law has not been assessed. The proposed 100 hours of compulsory qualification for the period of attestation contradicts the text in the reasons of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education, namely: new and broad public changes are introduced without the necessary preparation. The applied preliminary impact assessment does not specify all the resources and regulatory changes necessary to secure the proposal. The proposal for change is not in the interest of the students either, it does not correspond with the current trends for carrying out the continuing qualification and is not in itself a guarantor of the quality and effectiveness of the qualification carried out. The proposal does not take into account what financial, organizational and human resources are needed to provide substitute teachers. A number of opportunities can be used to enhance the qualifications and competences of the school, without the use of only the present form of training. The already available open resources and the capabilities of digital technologies, electronic platforms, networking can be used. The Ministry of Education and Science considers that the current wording on state budget funds planning should be maintained as it is consistent with the policy on increasing education funds. Furthermore, it does not create prerequisites for violating the principles of the allocation of public resources in accordance with the country's development priorities. It should be borne in mind that the proposal does not comply with the fiscal rules laid down in the Public Finance Act, including the size of the budget deficit, which should be respected when developing the Draft Law on the State Budget in the Republic of Bulgaria for the relevant year, as a member of the European Union. In view of everything outlined, the Ministry of Education and Science does not support the introduced by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on pre-school and school education. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Minister, for the detailed presentation. To some extent, it added the reports we heard earlier. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you go, Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the Preschool and School Education Act was one of the most disciplined in the previous parliament and one of the most discussed in society. Even when he was admitted, there were the most diverse opinions that were controversial enough. I'm sure he'll tolerate modifications and additions, but I don't think that's going to happen today. We expected the submitted bill to give rise to a discussion that would be useful for the system, but as always, we may not have guessed the right way in haste. The law is new, has not rolled another year, and the negative opinions are more preliminary than derived from its real function and impacts. I won't go into depth and detail. The coworkers already have. We reserve this right, if surprisingly the bill goes to the first vote today, to express our support for certain proposals, at the same time to make reservations regarding some other of the additional proposals tabled. We all know that there are problems in education, and we all start with the financial resources, especially their shortages. This is quite understandable, but at the same time it will be proven responsibility if the state predicts in the years ahead not 4% of gross domestic product, but to make it 5. 6 in the light of the priority claimed. But it's never just financial problems. The teaching profession, colleagues, requires dedication, demands responsibility to the future. Students and the new generation want standards that meet the time they live in. The issue of one textbook is still very much discussed, but you know we agree with the opinion that it is not so important how many textbooks are taught, but what is actually studied today at the Bulgarian school. Another point is that this has become a business as well. Even more different is the question whether this Bulgarian school is still a desirable territory for both the student and the teacher. By receiving qualitative or digital assessments, do they grow before our eyes with those basic knowledge that continue their preparation for tomorrow, or just because the Law is such a... some children grow illiterate, despite work and energy input?! Do they grow up to be knowledgeable and able, confident of their future realization? And that question also requires an analytical answer. Without any of us accepting it personally, honourable Members, we are unlikely that we are all so competent here in the field of education that the National Assembly sets some of the most important standards of state-education, beyond the contradiction in the regulations. There is another interesting proposal for the Council of Ministers to lay down by regulation the standard for inclusive education. However, this is a zone of professionalism, of extensive experience and expertise and requires a lot of understanding. There are indeed problems here and the Ministry of Education and Science must react with an entirely new regulation, taking into account the wide range of different opinions and recommendations. The opinion on the additional 30 working days requested for qualification within the attestation period is highly controversial. Apart from the positive side of the question, and we all know how, with whom and with what projects, the improvement of the qualification of teachers is taking place, and this hint, I think it will be enough. Dear colleagues, in the field of pre-school and school education there are other problems not mentioned in this Draft Law and remaining outside the discussion today. Some of them are still identified, and if we want smart generations in a strong country, we need to realise our responsibility today and make the right decisions. You learn your whole life, and that effort actually has to be a state policy. Taking into account both the good and the bad aspects of the proposals tabled, we, together with our colleagues, will abstain from voting. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DPS and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u18	Thank you, Mr. Mehmet. Here you are, honourable Members, for speeches. The word for speech has Veska Nencheva. Here you go, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u19	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! By unfolding the pages of the books of one of the amazing Bulgarian authors Chudomir, in one of the stories you will read the words of an old history teacher, who quotes Socrates and says: "When God decides to punish someone, he makes him a teacher. Colleagues, I will not tell you, but I will share with you what the Bulgarian teachers, Bulgarian children and Bulgarian parents shared with me from September last year, when the punishment of the Preschool and School Education Act came upon them. Yes, we agree that there should be a change and reform in Bulgarian education. And deeply focused on understanding the philosophy and scale of the proposed in the new Law, many questions arise. The answers are difficult, and for some questions the new Law still has no answers. At the beginning of the academic year 2016/2017 teachers had only a few days to get acquainted with nearly 2,000. pages new documents.. Sisyphus work, but they cope because they have to. Who needed this fast reading and urgent application of the Law?! The first-graders had to be happy with the old letters to pretend they were new. Parents are still formally present in public councils without a clear idea of the importance of their activities. The pedagogical councils had to decide weeks after the start of the new school year how to restructure seventh grade classes in order to be able to pass on the study material on history, geography and biology at the expense of classes in other subjects, and you know that after the 7th grade exams for national external evaluation are made. Somewhere in the philosophy of the new Law, fundamental methodological requirements are also being blurred out, such as the inter-frontal relationships that are fundamental to the absorption of lasting knowledge. What is written in the new Law is only a phrase that is empty of content, without depth and completeness. The educational plans, programs and content continue to give a comprehensive idea of the world's knowledge, but the knowledge of Bulgarian identity through Bulgarian literary works, Bulgarian folklore, Bulgarian history remains a topic that is neglected and unbecoming. The patriotic education and education is lacking in the sense of that national self-esteem, in which every Bulgarian child and every Bulgarian student should be raised. The Law shows a brief thought about Bulgarians abroad "Section VI," art. 113, and that is the end of the state's care for them. The chaos that created the Law has its consequences. Almost every week we only find another case of aggression at the Bulgarian school. Our children have lost direction in measure and justice, because the laws are unclear. The Bulgarian teacher is under pressure and stress, losing his self-esteem, losing his respect, losing his strength. And how does the weak raise in force?! How can the humiliated one cultivate self-esteem?! These are a small part of the examples that have become broken into the new Law, so our findings have forced us to propose amendments and additions that are of your attention. It is imperative that I also recall a maxim, which states that when a nation is healthy and educated, it finds its own way, and the litmotive, the supporting points of the current government of the state, are roads. Colleagues, you have the opportunity, through the adoption of our proposals, to help the nation go on a healthy path to education. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Replies from GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u20	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Any lines to the statement? I won't. The word for speech is Mrs. Snezana Dukova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the House, Dear Mrs. Deputy Minister, Dear Guests, Today in the Chamber! Guys, I don't know if you're aware of what we're looking at today. In any case, one thing has become clear is that we are not looking at Cornelia Nino's Law. We're looking at the Law, which has been preparing for 11 years and has been passed. We are looking at the Law, which alone and only for this Law, had a strike in support of it and its faster adoption. I am very surprised, colleagues from Left Bulgaria (the least of the colleagues who have spoken here). [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u22	Left Bulgaria does not exist in the name, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u23	They outlined such an apocalyptic picture that I wonder what I'm doing here, and are they Bulgarian teachers, and are they working at a Bulgarian school? The comparison of Botevski with the yoke of oxen does not at least resemble you or quote to me Chudomir the wonderful Bulgarian language he has in his publicist. Apropo, I mean, yesterday when we talked about a law by Mr. Turnovalysky, whom I don't see here, it was said...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u24	I'm here.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u25	Show yourself, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u26	Yes, you're here, Mr. Turnover. ...that our law, you see, was breaking the Law on Laws. Today and now we are looking at a Law that not only violates the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the I would understand everything about ideological bias and nostalgic taste and complaint over past and youth, but when they are structured on a professional sign and principle, on an expert analysis, on good practices, on adequate requirements of time, in this case, with this CI, this is not the case. My theme is private in terms of the comprehensive things that I would like to say about this Law and what you are saying. My colleagues will make major speeches and my theme will not be punctual. It is a topic which I have repeatedly explained about the financing of private schools, because there is no norm in this Law that meets legal and corresponds to the standards that are in Bulgarian law. Moreover, this Law contradicts not only legal norms, it contradicts the philosophy of the Law on preschool and school education. And if yesterday or the other day I was surprised and asked my colleague at the Commission if she had read the Law, now I am convinced that she has read it, colleagues, but she did not understand it! She didn't understand because the philosophy of this Law brings something different. It brings a change to the Law, which has a lot of problems and brings unfair reproaches and defects to the system of Bulgarian education. The law, which was adopted, is a difficult challenge I agree with, to the system of Bulgarian education and to the education of our children. I will divide my arguments into two: regulatory and those that are political. To be clear, I will clarify: we are talking, colleagues, about funding for children and students who are trained in private schools and private kindergartens. We're not talking about financing private schools and private kindergartens, first. Secondly, why, colleagues, you failed to implement the 2006 National Programme, which should have been implemented in 2009 and applied this principle, which, apropo, is not new for Bulgaria. You know as well as I that he has functioned far before. This is a norm that you have accepted and so you have found no strength or opportunity or understanding to fulfill it, but this should have started, as I said 2009. This is not a new topic for Bulgaria and I say that it has acted from 1909 to 1948. Second serious argument. Colleagues, you know very well that the Commission for Protection against Discrimination with its Decisions: Decision 234 of 2008 has a clear solution that every child and student should receive the single cost standard for training regardless of the status of the school. This is an established state policy in many European countries. Among them are countries that have extremely high results from their students. I will quote only some of them, without quoting the percentage they, apropo, in a publication which, in the last parliament, argued with today's President, only proves that it is increasing and not decreasing. These countries are Finland, Sweden, the Netherlands, Denmark, Germany, Norway, Spain, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, and in most of them, in one of the most social countries of France, for example The existence of constitutionally established norms in the context of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in art. 53, para. 6 does not define schools according to whether they are state, municipal and private, the rights of the child are guaranteed in an indisputable manner, without regard to the ownership of the school concerned and in accordance with the principles laid down in the Convention on the Combating Discrimination in the field of education. Colleagues, private schools are a real sector in the secondary education system. I'm gonna open the clamp and make a quick reference, because there's speculation about them. I'll give you a few numbers to be convincing anyway. In 2010, private schools in Bulgaria were 162 and private kindergartens were 54, in 2014, colleagues, private schools were 99, kindergartens were 72, clamped a drop in the sea. Against the background of nearly 3 000 Bulgarian state and municipal schools or an average estimated amount of about 13-15 million. Each year from the budget that should be allocated to them, it is set aside because no one can guarantee this child where it will be recorded................... whether in a private, municipal or public school............................ Two words on the financing mechanism of private schools and kindergartens, which is very much important, with the rules on State aid under the provision of art. 10, para. 3, that is, training on a school plan and nothing else. A few political arguments. First, each child will receive a single cost standard for training regardless of the status of the school. That's fair, that's equal treatment to our children, and I don't know why you're sabotaging him. Private schools will receive funds only for training, I repeat. The state subsidy for education shall be payable to each child. Private schools and kindergartens fulfil state educational standards and their activities will be monitored and monitored, which is currently difficult to do. State funding shall be suspended when infringements are detected, with explicit rules in the Law, as well as with low educational results. This, for your information, comes with a decision by the Minister of Finance on a proposal from the Minister of Education. The final argument is that competition, colleagues, gives birth to high quality and high results. There is no conspiracy, there is no backstage action that you on the left always see when we talk about the private sector in both healthcare and education. The general question, in my opinion, is is it a chance for the Bulgarian children the rights which the state makes or does not give? Is there a danger that this competitive environment, which is to change sharply in favor of private schools and there to go the elite of the nation, and under the elite we always understand the rich people, a rather outdated view, quite inadequate of time. Time, colleagues, allows the knowledgeable and able, regardless of which side they are on the social ladder and the social treasure, to be able to succeed in a society. You may be very rich, but the school won't make you smarter, you'll stay stupid, wherever you go to school. I think you should finally understand that the underlying and encoded principles will not produce results in either one or two years. The important thing is that we started. The important thing is that even you accepted some things. I will conclude by saying that I regret that we have been misled by some of our colleagues from the Reformation Block and have adopted a norm that now private schools, I think they will in no way want public finances to do their educational work, and will be right. I wish the young and new colleagues who are here who work at this level, but not as oxen, but with many morals, consciousness and with respect to Bulgarian education and to Bulgarian children, to understand this. Otherwise, it's pathetic. And we will work for the Bulgarian children and the Bulgarian nation. We need her educated and competitive in the world market! Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. Are there any lines to Mrs. Dukova's statement? [[Reply by National Representative Stoyan Mirchev.]] Mr. Mirchev, you? You can't... yeah. There are no lines. I'm giving you the floor of speech. Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It has been one year since the Law on pre-school and school education entered into force and, of course, with the many changes that have taken place in the field of education, we also see the effect of these changes. Definitely, putting forward decades of indicators on which we will define and which we will strive to improve the quality of education, we have also seen some points that, of course, tolerate criticism and which deserve to be changed. All of you, ladies and gentlemen, remember that when this Law was tabled a few years ago, there was an extremely thorough, professional and public discussion, and ultimately it led to the fact that importers accepted a lot of the reasonable proposals that were made. We now have a Law that enjoys relatively public trust and, above all, in the professional circles of education. What do you, fellow Members of the BSP for Bulgaria do you propose? You propose, in the familiar manner of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, a bill that is in a piece that is not related to any debate, with no discussion, even less by taking the opinion of the other political formations. You didn't even ask us if we had any changes in this sense and whether it was wrong when the Law on preschool and school education was being reconstructed, yet it should be comprehensive and solve some important fundamental issues. I would ask: What questions does your bill address to education? Does it resolve the issue of the fair distribution of delegated budgets, for example? Does the issues related to the early socialization of children solve important problems that affect society and which we already see bear certain negatives? Does it solve the quality of education problems? Does it resolve the question of the authority and dignity of the teacher, if you will, and the dignified payment of the teaching profession? These are all issues that are obviously not that important to you, and yet you have focused on some cosmetic changes. For example, a change in the name of professional high schools. What problem solves whether professional high school will be called that, or whether it will be called a technician? Is the foundation of this part of the Bulgarian education system really changing? No, it only changes the name. As far as private schools are concerned. I would also ask the Ministry of Education and Science: how many private schools have benefited so far from public government funding. As far as I know, there are no requests at this time... [[Reply by National Representative Stoyan Mirchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u29	Mr. Mirchev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u30	... at the moment there is no request, Mr. Mirchev, any wishes of private schools to take advantage. You know that there is a clause in the Law that does not create conditions and opportunities for private schools to have an interest in using public funds. All of your proposals, which you point out, of course, without going into the pathetic tone, which we have just listened to and, with which we have described a tragic situation in the system of Bulgarian education, I believe that, although there are reasonable proposals in part of what you are offering us, let us say, we have also defended in the adoption of the Law thesis of a single textbook only that there is no way to support you in this sense, as our proposal was to have a textbook on the subjects of the historical cycle, on the geography of Bulgaria, on music. These are the study subjects which usually make interpretations that we believe that in the training of our children are not correct and the authors should definitely have a single opinion at least as regards these parts of Bulgarian history. In this sense, I can state on behalf of the group that we cannot stand in support of your bill. We will vote with abstention and thus appeal to you: let us deepen the discussion a little more. I believe that we will lose nothing if, in a few months, after public debates and after working together between the parliamentary groups, we come to united proposals and when we are doing a reconstruction of the Law, it really is worth, quality and meaningful, and not just chasing political dividends from such a proposal. We've already seen a lot of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u31	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. The word for a line is Mr. Stoyan Mirchev. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bogdanov, the discussion on this Bill and on the changes that we are currently proposing has been taking place for over two years. So you're telling me that there's going to be some discussion ahead of you is ridiculous. The other thing that's ridiculous is talking about a law you've never read, and I'll tell you why I think so. I'm sorry, but that's what you sound like. This Law, if you have read it, you know that the funding of private schools is being activated only from 2018. So we cannot now talk about an avalanche rise in the wishes of private schools with state funding, for the simple reason that this amendment in the Law, meaning this text in the Law has not yet been activated in practice. It shall enter into force from 2018. Mr. Bogdanov, I'll bring you back here as soon as the money in the health care system started leaking to private hospitals. At the time they were not so many, and at the moment they are of such size that we are wondering what to do with the state because the funds for them are not enough. So, Mr. Bogdanov, and the discussion has been going on for a long time, and the funding I explained to you exactly what the reality of funding is. What we are proposing are concrete solutions. In my speech, I will speak in particular about them, but they are related to problems that we have seen for over a year now. Problems we talked about at the initial adoption of the Law that will become reality, and they become reality. And right now, what we're proposing is only to prevent the system from collapse.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u33	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Any other lines? A line, Mr. Vitanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have been provoked by the angle of the conversation and I would like to focus on another aspect. First, as regards the name itself. You may think it's irrelevant, but it's indicative to me. How can pre-school education be at all, given that in the Bulgarian language it means, firstly, a process of learning and purposefully obtaining some knowledge and, secondly, a system of different degrees of schools that give a certain qualification? Both definitions say preschool education is a nonsense. Second, training implies such personal maturity, in which a child can delay his motives or purposes. That is, a leading role in six-year-old children always has the game, not the training. And in age, in fact, up to six or seven years of age, the person is unable to participate in the study work. Of course, this can be learned in the form of a game or spontaneously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u35	That's what it says in the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u36	Apropo, apropo!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u37	Can we please not do any lines from the hall? Mr. Vitanov, do not engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u38	This mechanical translation and copying of the Law is also an attestation for the quality of some of the texts. I would like to say one more thing about the effect, as Mr. Bogdanov talks about the effect and the reckoning. In 2016 and 2017, there was a sharp increase in aggression in the school. In just a few months, two children were killed by their classmates in seemingly everyday, elementary and conflicting situations. One of the effective measures to regulate aggression with violence is saturation at school with representatives of the assisting professions. Well, how do you do that when practitioners are called the pedagogical specialists? I'm talking about psychologists, psychologists and educators.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u39	To have a pedagogical internship and...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u40	And one last thing. Add to that the lower pay and motivation, respectively, to these people, is zero. Thank you. [[Single applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u41	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Are there any other lines to Mr. Bogdanov's statement? Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u42	Mr. President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, I will observe the procedure, as we must make a replica of Mr. Bogdanov's speech and not in principle talk about the Law, although, colleagues, it is very clear in the Law that education is a process of training, education and socialization, and this has always been the case, whether we are talking about kindergarten or school. In kindergarten training happens through a game and it is recorded but whatever. Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov, for paying attention to the fact that the texts under art. 10, concerning the funding of children in private schools and kindergartens, it goes from 2018. It is good that colleagues on the left also understood it, because during the election campaign were pouring out some sentences and facts as to how, you see, we transferred the money from municipal kindergartens and government to private ones, how we closed down municipal and state kindergartens and schools and so on. I would ask my colleagues, and I would urge them to designate one such school from which we have transferred money from municipal, respectively, to private. It's good that you read it, colleagues on the left. Mr. Bogdanov, these things must be recalled, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Let me remind you that the procedure is a replica, and we still don't have a thank-you procedure. If we accept a procedure of gratitude in the Rules of Procedure, you can fully fit into it. Here you go, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u44	Dear Mr. Mirchev, whether I have read the Law or not, you are at least a witness within the last parliament during the night hours when the Committee on Education and Science met, we were together and assuming that by attending these meetings, at least I had the opportunity to discuss and debate on these issues. Unfortunately, then you were not as extensive as you are at the moment, which leads me to believe that your setup at the moment is to seek a political dividend from these proposals. I will therefore repeat once again: we are preparing proposals that are valuable and meaningful and which will solve most of the problems that we have seen have caused some inaccuracies in the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u45	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. For speeches? Procedure? Here you go, Mrs. Yotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u46	Mr President, honourable Members, I propose a procedure to extend the time until the debate on the subject and the vote is exhausted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Yotova. Any other suggestions? A counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mrs. Yotova to extend the time in the debates of the Law until the debate is over. They voted 144 MPs: 139 against 4, abstention 1. The proposal for an extension of time has been accepted. We continue to discuss the bill. Please come in for further comments.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u48	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of Parliament, the Act on pre-school and school education, which has been in force since 1 August 2016, expresses to the greatest extent the changes in public development in its regulated area and meets the expectations of the participants in the system, society for a more quality and complete educational and educational process. Thanks...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u49	Can we have quiet in the hall? I'm sorry. It's too loud.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u50	Thanks to the experience of school directors and teachers, the school education system is in dynamic balance and the introduction of new changes before the start of the new school year, which have no proven positive effect, will cause chaos and lack of stability, which is not in the interest of either teachers or children or parents. Some of the proposals for a change in the Bill: The children from I to IV class to repeat class... a rule that does not meet the idea and spirit of the Law. It is not a measure against dropping out of school, especially in children from vulnerable groups. Starting school age is the time when children build their basic learning skills. Putting quantitative assessments and repeating a class direct the responsibility for the student's success or failure on the very thing. In Finland, who is the leader of educational results in Europe, when someone has a problem or is behind, the school does not exclude it, but receives support from students, teachers, from the whole school community. The school is the main environment of child development. The teacher's right to choose the textbook on which to work with his students and introduce an unlimited amount of teaching aids. Children are different and learn using many sources and all their senses. And right now, the children are learning a textbook about the one chosen by their teacher. The proposal in the Bill takes the freedom of choice of a textbook from the teacher, which shows a lack of confidence in teachers, in particular to parents, as the choice of textbooks is agreed with the Public Council. It takes completely the wrong logic that children are the same and that universal instruments can be applied to them. Hiding a huge corruption risk and lack of any guarantees for objective and transparent choice. The large number of aids offered will also have an indirect effect on another problem in the elementary school. And now the school bags are heavy enough, and such an idea will certainly burden them further, especially if the teachers at the school concerned are not satisfied with the textbook approved and rely on additional collections. At the same time, I must point out that it is necessary to require us, those working in the system, developed electronic textbooks, aids and platforms to provide alternative training for different subjects. At least 30 working days for an attestation period paid leave under art. 161 of the Labour Code for the increase of the teaching qualification. The norm which is inadmissible for school budget. The school should stimulate higher qualifications, bind it to the results, create conditions for applying instruments for attractive education at the school, which means higher pay for teaching. The proposal does not take into account the necessary financial, human and organisational resources to provide replacement for absent teachers and how this will affect students, how it will be explained to their parents. There is no legal obstacle and at the moment the number of teachers' qualification hours is greater than 48. 100, 200. It's a decision of every school and it's only in its capabilities. Whatever state our basic and secondary education is in today has one huge plus sign, which is worth bearing all the minuses and the free choice. The freedom to choose away children from the absolutely wrong and unenforceable model in the past, which had to train universally developed individuals. For more than two decades, there is one of the most important prerequisites for successful and constructive education in school years. It is a matter of choice, and sometimes it is a matter of money for a child to study only what he is interested in. The proposal to restore technicians as a new kind of specialized schools is a duplication of vocational schools. They, together with the profiled high schools, make up a core of educational institutions that offer quality and competitive education. Many of them have come forward-looking and wisely out of institutions whose sole obligation is teaching and function as exam centers for receiving internationally recognized diplomas for secondary education and language certificates. They work successfully in collaboration with the business. Maintaining close contacts with our and foreign universities, they facilitate the reception of their graduates in them. Departure from public funding of private schools would be a serious withdrawal of the state from the commitment to promote education, which is a public and solidarity case. It is necessary time to develop private education in more settlements, not only in the capital city; to analyse and evaluate the impact process of how many private schools will benefit from this opportunity, which will take effect from 2018; what will be the effect of this on the accessibility of these schools to children and parents; how many schools have applied for such funding and why; what public resources are aimed at private schools and what is the effect of this on ensuring equal access and quality education for each child. Only after such an analysis should a decision be taken to extend or terminate state funding or to change the eligibility conditions. Regarding the introduction of norms aimed at disciplining students. Solving problems goes through improving trust and interaction between family, school and state bodies that are outside the educational system. Coherence, coordination and interaction between participants in the educational process is the successful way to reduce aggression. Good results are achieved if there is working integration between the educational and social environment. School education should be focused on creating an environment that motivates each student to improve his knowledge throughout his life, master new technologies, develop entrepreneurial spirit and the ability to assume social responsibility. I am convinced that the children are ready for the changes, only the adults need to be convinced.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. [[General applause from GERB.]] You have a word for a line to Mrs. Tanya Petrova's statement. Mrs. Irena Atanasova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u52	Mr. Chairman! Mrs. Petrova, three things. The introduction of innovation at the beginning of the school year will disrupt the dynamic balance of the system. Do you think she's in dynamic balance now?! Do you think that last year, when the new Law came into force from 1 August and we started the school year with four out of 19 standards, and by New Year's Eve, standard after standard was applied, the system was in great balance, dynamic?! My other line is that in a textbook, of course, there will be a lot of help, depending on the level of the children in the class, according to the teacher's assessment, and that is the good thing. You think now they're not carrying aids and their backpacks are light?! Do you know when their backpacks will be light? When the state allocates enough resources and as in some other countries children have sets of textbooks at home and sets of textbooks at school. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] No, they don't now. Now we leave Mrs. Dukova, the old textbooks in one set in the classrooms so they can be used. Freedom to choose. A great freedom has been given to the children at the moment. Freedom to choose. From what? They choose from what they're offered. Do you think they have such a rich choice right now? Take a look at what they choose for the classes of compulsory electives and faculties what the school has. That's what they choose. If that's what you call freedom...?! Freedom is to provide resources so that schools can afford to attract external personnel according to children's wishes. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Next line, Teodora Halacheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mrs. Petrova! In your speeches you talked about the middle of schools. Well, let's talk about it. It is about one of the main problems at school, namely growing aggression. Mr. Vitanov also addressed this problem: growing levels of aggression and shocking manifestations of violence. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u55	Can we please not have any lines from where you are, Mrs. Dukova? You had the opportunity to speak for 12 minutes undisturbed. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]] Go on, Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u56	The research of Bulgarian psychologists on the problem of aggression proves that one of the main reasons is the physical environment in Bulgarian schools. This was also mentioned at a round table organised by the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and also by the State Agency for Child Protection. I take this opportunity to ask you why the standard of physical environment in Bulgarian schools has not been adopted? Isn't it appropriate for him to be adopted by the National Assembly and not by the Minister? In order not to get the case as in the first GERB government, when with a decision of the Minister of Health the area for a child in kindergarten was reduced from 8 to 4 sq.m. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Halacheva, for the line. For the next line, Mr. Mirchev, come in. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u58	You're always looking to the left.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u59	For a line? [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] I'll give you a chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Petrova! You said in your statement about the wrong model before 1989, in the past. I will just remind you that Bulgaria was at one of the top places in education. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Ignorance was minimized. Currently, functional illiterateness is 40%. And because you're a right-wing party, I'm going to end up with the so-called "wrong model." In 1971, Margaret Thatcher came to Bulgaria, one of the most right-wing politicians in the history of mankind, and she was completely impressed by the Bulgarian education and said it on Radio BBC. And the English education system borrowed a number of models from our education system then. [[GERB lines.]] So don't talk to me about a misguided model, given that the non-speaking colleague from the Patriotic Front (Patriotic Front) said that changes are being prepared in your brand-new Mercedes law (Mercedes), which turns out to be of no use. Thank you. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u61	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Do you want procedure, Mrs. Dukova? Come in the manner of conduct. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u62	I should have, first of all, the doppelganger, of course, but it has to be read by the Rules. Mr. Chairman, you have my cue and it is clear! All the chairmen who hold Parliament's meetings are usually proportionately distributed the floor in all sectors of the House. You're only looking to the left all the time. I don't know why. Actually, I do! This one, first. [[Loud noise.]] I would like to maintain a dynamic balance within myself and in my colleagues, and to say that education, Mr. Chairman, is a consensual territory.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u63	Is this the way it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u64	Yeah, yeah. ...make it so when you lead, because otherwise I will accuse you of special discrimination in relation to my colleagues. [[Loud noise.]] Please! Otherwise, I'd say a lot of things. Mr. Chairman, let us speak of this tribune exclusively and only on the subject! Otherwise, is the Bulgarian education introduced in London...? I don't remember...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u65	And you're not on the subject right now, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u66	I don't remember. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u67	Thank you for the procedure. I really look to the left more often. [[GERB lines.]] I'll adjust in my eyes, but I also have statutory duties. [[(Radio.) Noise and lines.)]] Here you go, Mrs. Petrova. You had sharp lines, we're waiting for your backdrop.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly on the left! Only Mrs. Irena Anastasova is a person who has worked for many years in the secondary education system and I would say that she understands secondary education. We certainly do not understand the notion of freedom in the same way. I believe that even now Bulgarian teachers have freedom in their choice of textbooks, of teaching aids, of teaching methods and training at school. Regarding colleague Mirchev. Colleague Mirchev, you are a significantly younger person, but this imperative tone you speak from the stands is not a dignified tone. We are talking about the past related to the proposal in the Bill to restore the name of the technicians of specialized schools. This was a reference to the past, and current vocational schools have the same content as what you are talking about. With regard to the other one, the young colleague, I would say that there are no measures against aggression in your bill. Why hasn't the standard of physical environment been adopted? Naturally, I, as a Member of the National Assembly, cannot answer that question. The Ministry of Education and Science answered that question. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] The way you're leading it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I hope I didn't understand, but I consulted with colleagues who also heard you earlier. From the high tribune you're sitting on right now, Mr. Chairman, you said just now, if I'm wrong, correct me for looking to the left because you're under statutory obligation. You are the President of the National Assembly first among equals, and you have no right to political bias from this high tribune. [[Applause from GERB.]] I ask: if you have said it, not only should you apologize, but I think you should bear a greater penalty, because you have no right in any way to politicize this tribune that you are sitting on right now and this tall chair that you are in. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So think about it. Once again, I hope you haven't said it, we'll request the transcript and check it out. If you said that, there would be consequences. Thank you. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Proclaims: "Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u71	Mr. Ivanov, the Rules of the National Assembly are also regulations. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u72	There's no such thing... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u73	Here you go. What procedure do you have, excuse me? It's the way it's supposed to be. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct. Mr. Chairman, you are currently acting as Chairman, you are a representative of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, which is a political party and as such you can say whatever you want from this platform. Because, colleagues, we are politicians here and you understand that once and for all. Politicians speak politically, and experts speak expertly where he belongs. Here, this National Assembly, is Parliament. That means talking from politicians, not talking from experts. And you can't make any remarks when a person speaks politically, because each one of you here is a representative of a political party and as such be honest with your constituents. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u75	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there other procedures in the manner of conduct? I won't. They're all out. We continue with the statements under the Law. Here you are, honourable Members of the House. I'm just looking to the right. Here you go. [[(Radio.) Noise.)]] Mrs. Irena Anastasova, come in. [[Heckling]] There are also objective things.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u76	I'm asking for an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u77	Increase the parliamentary group's time by five minutes. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Act in force on pre-school and school education, as has already become abundantly clear in this House, has been since August of last year. It's almost a year. I have very detailed knowledge of the opinions of this Law amendment bill of ours. Including the House, here, there have now been statements that it is too early to make changes. We need to give time to identify the problems, we need to see which provisions of the Law do not work, or work not as we wish and so on. So I'm gonna do a little flashback. Before the Act on People's Education in force has been in force since 1991, the Law on the degree of education, the curriculum and the general educational minimum has been in force since 1999. In fact, this Law, colleagues, has caused the greatest damage to education, because thanks to it new curriculums, new curricula, therefore educational content and textbooks were introduced. Here, Professor. Stanilov was right at the Commission meeting when he said that things that were being studied, for example, in the seventh grade before the entry into force of this 1999 Law, are now being studied in the fourth grade. Well, we can't want to achieve significant successes, to master knowledge and skills with abstract concepts and content inadequate with children's age. Why am I saying all this? That there were problems was already clear in 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005 and to this day. And we continued a government would have passed the Law, and secondly, it would have been public discussions, but it was clear that the system was stalling, the results we saw. This is in terms of learning content. In terms of funding. 10 years ago, delegated budgets were introduced. Until now, their philosophy has acted without correction, despite repeated discussions, comments that delegated budgets in the way they have been introduced have made good schools even better and sinking even deeper. And yet, you see, it's been 10 years. Why am I saying this? Because in my opinion, yes, it is too early to make changes to a Law that has been in effect since 1 August last year, but since we have to, we have to make them. It is a pity that we have to make changes to a Law one year after its action, but that is how it works. The other option is to wait for a year, two, three, five, as we have been waiting for the action of previous laws. I am convinced that you, colleagues, will propose changes to the Law yourself, even I know that this is being worked on by the experts of the Ministry. This is also a recognition of the qualities of the Law. When the discussion in the Commission said that, you see, at the moment the Law is absorbed, I honestly told you that I was speechless at first. How can we talk about absorbing something within an entire system, such as education? It turns out that we subjected the system to this experiment to see what would happen. Well, we see what happens. [[Reply by MP Milena Damyanova.]] No, Mrs. Damyanova, look at the transcripts, it's not our thesis! [[Reply by MP Vejdi Rashidov.]] I would like to speak to you on the substance of our proposals. You're right, Mr. Rashidov. The standards. Why should some of these standards, and certain standards, be adopted in our opinion by the National Assembly? Of course, I disagree with the motives here that, you see, this would be rude political pressure. Then the Law for what is it about......then the Law accepts it the National Assembly, rude political pressure?! Of course they are developed by experts at the Ministry, of course they are also offered by the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly accept them or not, but I do not accept the thesis that standards should be developed in the Ministry because this is the expert view. Colleagues, and current standards have been developed by experts at the Ministry. Very expertly developed! We see what's happening. Not to mention that for some of the standards, we are now going to make an option so that we do not completely change them, we will say that only some adjustments are made, and they are important and essential adjustments that will be made. So I do not accept your thesis that the standards, some of them, I can even say who, in order to see how insignificant they are in your opinion, about the curriculum, about the general education, about the acquisition of qualifications in professions, about the status and professional development of teachers, about the financing of the institutions, our thesis is that because, thus, the standards regulate important public relations, so they must be adopted by the National Assembly. I don't see that as an unimportant social relationship. What I read to you. On the subject of the single textbook, colleagues. Those who were exposed to the Commission meetings I have participated in television debates, including with Mr. Kizkovski as a representative of the Publishers, including with other representatives of the private publishers and this thesis was not new to me, I knew it. More like the rest of those of some of the other representatives were new, but ultimately they were in one choir about how terrible it was to be taught in a textbook, how it was extremely retrograde, how the educational system worked only in Greece from the time of the colonels, i.e. the military junta, how this was valid only in Mozambique, except in Bulgaria. Colleagues, I don't know, you're almost all parents and some of you grandmothers and grandpas. I don't know if you opened your children's books? And if you opened them, are you happy with what you saw? How could a child...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u79	That's another topic!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u80	It's no other subject and don't apostrophe, please! How do you explain to a kid in third grade, colleagues, what mass and body volume is? How can I test you to a child in the sixth grade here, whether you will also answer the question, what are the principles of the Tarnovo Constitution, and which ten liberal and ten democratic parties during the adoption of the Tarnovo Constitution have functioned in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u81	The law doesn't say those things!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u82	Why am I saying all this? Because those textbooks I'm talking about, fellow Members, were created within the framework of a legally regulated provision for many textbooks. There was a period with three textbooks, then there was a period with the number of textbooks. That's the kind of textbook we created. Why do you think that when our children are going to study a textbook, it's going to be something very scary? The evaluation of a textbook will be carried out by the Bulgarian teachers, in the way that the evaluation of three textbooks or the number of textbooks is carried out. And that's how he's gonna beat the best. With the extra help, each teacher will be able to evaluate the level of the children in the class in which he teaches and use the appropriate tool. Low, medium or higher. The other institutions. Our proposal is that when there are identified problems, other institutions that have an obligation to work with troubled children should return a written response to the schools within 15 days for measures taken. What did you see wrong with that? Yeah, you're gonna tell me they're still in debt. They're under the Administrative Procedure Code Act, but do you think they do? Why don't we put that obligation in our law? Personally, I have faced absolutely non-haber social services and department for child protection, which have in no way responded to ours, including written signals. So I don't see anything wrong with that, colleagues! Otherwise very well, wishful thinking, very good sounds that the policy of working with children will be successful. It just doesn't seem to work out. About private schools. Article 10, para. 3, whose cancellation we want reads as follows: "When private kindergartens and private schools receive a state subsidy, they can only carry out activities in return for payment outside those financed by the State. As principal of school I have repeatedly asked the question at the Ministry to tell me: the single cost standard what does it include? It is clear that it includes the cost of salaries, the cost of building overheads, but to tell me in percentage, how much percentage of how much of the other. I never got an answer. In this regard, it is interesting how will they identify which activities will be financed by the private school? There was a work option in which it was referred to as "training." Mrs. Dukova used that too. The costs of the training. What are the costs of the training? Salary expenses? The costs of implementing the technical means? What are the costs of training? And then, what do parents have to pay for? There is nothing wrong with wanting and believing that all children are children of Bulgaria. That's true. No one's arguing against that. Since they are all children of Bulgaria, why are child benefits with a threshold? Didn't those parents who had high incomes give birth to children of Bulgaria? Why don't we give child support to them, too? When a man decides to travel by public transport, he pays his ticket. The municipality provided transport, but when it decided to travel by taxi, the state did not read with BGN 1.60. The taxi driver, because he's transporting someone who's decided he wants to use other terms and pays. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] My fellow Members, I am not saying that all our proposals are not subject to comment. And changes could be made, and your suggestions between first and second reading could be taken into account. You just decided that this Law, this Draft Law and these changes could not be made. Maybe that's what you've decided at the moment. I really hope it'll be different in the fall. I'll tell you what. I will quote an opinion from a document by the employers' organisations of directors, which yesterday unknown why they expressed another opinion in the Chamber or rather known why. When making a reference or a report becomes more important than sharing, dialogue and empathy with the child and the young man, it is time to change things. Opinion of the employers' organisations of directors.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u83	Your time, Mrs. Anastasova, is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u84	We've known for a long time that it's time to change things, only we didn't change them the right way. So let's do it now. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Are there any lines to Mrs. Anastasova's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Interesting, serious debate in the committees, so is he in the room. Debate, which was provoked by a submitted Bill by BSP colleagues, but a debate that brought back the debate on the adopted and entered into force almost a year ago a new Law on preschool and school education. A new Law that entered, I said, there is not yet another year in force for a very small part of the students, and any predictions, predictions of its failure, of the destruction, of the apocalypse that awaits, unfortunately, are only in the sphere of the supporting points of our colleagues on the left. The law, which we adopted in the Forty-third National Assembly, became a fact thanks to the effort and perseverance of the Political Party GERB, but he, honourable Members, is not the Law of GERB. It is about the Law in which labor and thought, ideas, the experience of hundreds of teachers, experts, practitioners, unionists and parents are invested. This is a Law which went through dozens of discussions, with all interested parties and all comments have been taken into account. Moreover, over 80 suggestions of colleagues on the left found a place in the Law. If anyone today wants to destroy it and change it just to earn some supposed political dividend from the very fact of opposition, we will not allow it. I would like to remind you that the last European Commission Monitoring Report praised Bulgaria for reforms in this area. This is the only area from which all criticisms have already been removed because of the adoption of the Preschool and School Education Act. I will also not forget to remind you that during the Oresharski cabinet, during the management of the BSP, the bill we submitted never came to discussion. Moreover, then, you, too, have not put your vision into the development of the system. It is absolutely hypocrisy to claim that you support raising education as a national priority and, at the same time, to prevent it knowingly and with all the efforts of change. And today we are witnessing another manifestation confirming my words. Today, when state education standards are improved, when every day the Ministry of Education and Science and the Council of Ministers propose and discuss measures to ensure the coverage and detention of children in school, measures to motivate teachers, a change in funding is being prepared, guaranteeing and supporting the preservation of more schools, and quality education in classrooms, in these schools, you propose that we go back, open the old supporting points. Today, honourable Members, you are exhibiting behavior not of nationally responsible politicians, but, once again, you are relying on a party PR. It is important to know, to note, to repeat once again that all the measures that the political party GERB is taking today in the field of education are a logical upgrade on the foundations of what our party has achieved over the years. They logically derive from the party's successive actions in this direction during both our mandates. Moreover, they are stepping on the National Program adopted in 2006 by a majority of the political forces, tabled, honourable colleagues on the left, by your Prime Minister Mr. Stanishev, supported, honourable colleagues, by your fellow MPs! There, inter alia, as has already been said, is also the partial financing of private schools, which should have started in 2009, but today you continue to attribute it as an argument to us and create moods among people. The funding in the system, you say, is insufficient, we want more. During GERB's first term, we achieved a 20% increase in teachers' salaries. Budget 2016 included 140 million for secondary education, of which 80 million for salaries. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. BGN, which is the highest growth of funds in this sector. In 2018, more than 330 million were envisaged. lv. only for salaries. Separately are provided all national programmes, which outside the uniform cost standards, will finance and support Bulgarian education. Dear colleagues, from 2009 to 2017 only in the 2014 budget there is no proposal to increase the money of teachers and their salaries. Who makes this budget? Mr. Oresharski's government! The subject of a textbook. I will not comment on it, my colleagues have made it very clear, but I would like to remind you of something. In proposals between the first and second reading of BSP colleagues regarding the topic with the textbook, you had a very interesting proposal which definitely ensured the emergence of a monopoly. There you had recorded that the textbook would be chosen by procedure, by negotiation, without notice. The only thing missing from your proposal was the name of the publishing house. A very interesting topic has brought about your proposal for the SPIs, the socio-pedagogical boarding schools. Extremely incomprehensible, unprofessional, without a dose of any expertise is the appearance of this proposal in your Bill. It was categorically defined by all institutions that are relevant. With this proposal, you have declared yourself against state policy in the last 10 years for conducting the most serious reform for the deinstitutionalization of children. With this proposal, you are interfering with a system that has long been waiting for reform and this is the system for child justice. Moreover, I would like to ask, in a personal capacity, my colleagues from Sliven's multi-mandated electoral area from BSP, how two days before they signed as importers of this proposal, supported the closure of the SPI and sought methods and ways, and agreed with us. [[Voices: Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, and applause from AG to GERB.]] That you need to reform there? But in just two days they are signed as importers of a text that wants the SPI to be like a new institution for children. I'm sure I can talk more, of course, about auxiliary schools, because for two years... [[Replys from "BSP for Bulgaria"]] . You don't feel good, I know. You don't like it! But the auxiliary schools for two years you have flooded with negative emotions and troubled colleagues, teachers and parents that these schools will be destroyed; that teachers will remain on the street; that there is no one for the children to take care of. Today, when they all became convinced that this is not true, and this is not going to happen, you are reopening the subject and returning, and you are trying on the back of the pain of thousands of parents and thousands of families to play with the topic of supporting children with special educational needs. No school will be closed. No teacher will be on the street. No child will be left without care. On the contrary, all of the institutions and specialized units together will work with a single goal of taking care of each child and each student, according to his individual abilities. Yes, I know, honourable Members of the opposition, that it is certainly party justified for you to predict collapse, chaos and failure, but it is politically irresponsible to cause unjust and false turmoil for failure in the education system. The truth is that the Law, which makes BSP so nervous because it clearly reminds them of their own failures and of the time when the European Commission assessed Bulgaria with a weak 2 We, honourable Members, MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB, will strongly vote against your proposals, not because they are BSP proposals, but because we do not accept political play with the topic. This is dangerous and will have lasting and harmful consequences for the whole of society and the state. We will vote against it, because the discussion of thoughtless, forward-looking and short-sighted proposals leads only to the creation of lasting distrust in the system. We will vote against it, because all organizations in the field of professional, commercial, non-governmental, are against the concept and philosophy of your bill. And since we've been quoted here several times by texts from different classics, I'm going to read you a single sentence from a favorite essay of each teacher. It's called "I'm a teacher": I'm a warrior! Every day I fight battles against peeping violence, fear, prejudice, ignorance and apathy, but I have great allies: intelligence, curiosity, parental support, individuality, creativity, faith, love and laughter. They all flock under my flags and with their support I am invincible! I believe, honourable Members, that one day Bulgaria will have only politicians who will honestly and with responsibility be part of the great allies of the Bulgarian teacher. Thank you. [[Voices: "Bravo, bravo! "]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Dear Members of the National Assembly are young people from Yambol, so I suggest that we welcome them. [[Applause.]] We continue with the speeches. Are there any lines? There are no lines. In that case, after no statements have been made, I propose that we proceed to the vote on the proposed Draft, No 754-01-14, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017. Please vote. Vote 187 MPs: 67 against 82, abstention 38. The bill hasn't been passed. Do you want a procedure? Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Since there was a technical problem in the room with Mr. Rashidov's vote, I ask for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u89	We waited for Mr. Rashidov to vote. Is the technical problem solved? He's not determined? It's a rethink mode. Vote 188 MPs: 66, against 84 abstentions 38. The bill hasn't been passed. We move on to the next item on the agenda for today: PARLIAMENT CONTROL.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u90	Colleagues, I'm calling a recess at 11:30. At 11:30, parliamentary control begins. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u91	Honourable Members, we are continuing with what is scheduled for today: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Since we start at 11.30, it will be extended until 2.30 with possible declarations from parliamentary groups. New questions concerning the period from 14 July to 20 July 2017 from: - MPs Filip Popov, Tsvetan Topchiev, Ivan Genov and Nikolay Ivanov to Nikolay Nankov The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 28 July 2017; - Member of the Parliament of the Council of Ministers of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, on the lack of analyses, visions and positions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry for the new Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) after 2020. It should be answered in plenary on 28 July 2017; - Member of the Parliament of the Council of Ministers of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, concerning the delay of the procedures under measure 72 of the Rural Development Programme. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 28 July 2017; - MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Georgi Svilenski at Ivaylo Moskovski, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, on the policy of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the security of Sofia airport during the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018. Written answers for service by: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to two questions from the MP Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on questions from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Daniel Yordanov and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Daniel Yordanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the MPs Vesela Lecheva and Hristo Prodanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Hayri Sadakov, Sergei Kichikov, Errol Mehmed, Halil Letifov and Sevim Ali; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Tanya Petrova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Philip Popov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Donka Simeonova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Violeta Zheleva; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Yordan Mladenov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Yordan Yordanov. Here you go, Mr. Svilenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov! This is a procedure in the manner of conduct to comply with the Rules. Mr. Chairman, within the legal period within which we must submit our questions and questions, with Prof. Rumen Gechev, we have brought a question to Minister Goranov. A question concerning an obligation to the Bulgarian state treasury for more than 50 million. BGN, and we are surprised that in today's parliamentary control, Minister Goranov is gone. That is, we follow our Rules, which is a law in the Republic of Bulgaria, to submit the questions within the respective deadlines, and the ministers lightly release to you apology notes that they are absent. I will set an example with Mr. Karakachanov, who is here every Friday and answers, and I see Mrs. Tsacheva is coming. In other words, colleagues who were MPs and president of the Bulgarian Parliament know how to respect this institution, and ministers who have for a short time entered this House only until they are elected ministers allow themselves to neglect the Bulgarian Parliament. Please, Mr. President, enter into your functions as such and no longer allow ministers to pass the Bulgarian Parliament, going on vacation, on excursions, on trips, and on your program every Friday to cross it off as a day for the Bulgarian Parliament, and to be here at the disposal of the Bulgarian MPs. Otherwise, apart from mocking us as opposition, with us as MPs, they also mock you as President of the National Assembly for not being able to provide them. I hope for next Friday all those ministers who have been absent will come forward and answer until they answer all the questions, not say another word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. The Minister of Finance named by you Vladislav Goranov has requested a seven-day postponement of the answer under art. 96, para. 3. It reads as follows: The Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister or the Minister to whom the question is addressed may request a delay of the reply, but by no more than seven days from the deadline set under para. 1.................................................................................. Absolutely by our rules he acted. There's no way all the ministers could be here at the same time, but he's been using a ground for delay, which is recorded in our Rules of Procedure. There's nothing I can do. Here you go, Professor. Gechev, you too for procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Analog even heavier is the case with colleague Ivaylo Moskovski. You announced from the stand yesterday that he would come today and answer the question we asked him with colleague Svilenski. Two hours later he allowed himself to cancel your decision and request a delay. I would like to warn the MPs, colleagues, and the parliament's leadership that particularly my colleague Moskovski did not appear during the entire session. This is a unique Bulgarian minister who has not come to parliament at all. I would like to draw attention and demand, Mr. President, if the ministers in question think that they will get sick next Friday, warn them not to get sick, because we will expect them to fulfil their obligations under the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. They can delay, I understand the rules have been respected. Let it be understood, however, that a minister may be absent from parliamentary control, first, if there is to be an urgent international commitment once. An urgent international engagement! We will see if there are such commitments next Friday, because indeed the ministers are obliged to comply with Parliament's work and not us with theirs. We all know that even if there are, in most international commitments, he can send his replacement. Under the Constitution, ministers are obliged to answer our questions here. I ask you to warn the two ministers not to stall and to come up next Friday and answer our questions, as it is a total of 60 million. lv. People's money that can be lost. Secondly, this can also lead to losses in hundreds of millions if penalties are brought by the European Union, so our questions are very serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u95	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. Minister Moskovski used the same reason, absolutely according to our Rules: art. 96, para. 3 Each minister has the right to postpone his answer by seven days. The other is speculation. We'll see next Friday. Let's not assume such severe assumptions to get sick, for God's sake. There are other reasons, if at all, to delay. We're moving on to the answers. We begin with Krassimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence, who will answer a question from MP Petar Vitanov about the sale of military clubs in the country. Mr. Vitanov, come in for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Madame Minister, colleagues! During the time of the farmer, Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev was decided to sell military clubs in a number of Bulgarian cities, with the Ministry of Defence conducting intensive preparation for their sale. These are for example the cities of Krumovgrad, Momchilgrad, Razgrad, Sredets, Samokov, Telish, Simeonovgrad, Slivnitsa, Belene. Some time ago the club in Nova Zagora was sold and the sale was carried out by the Military Clubs Executive Agency and military-rest case. At the beginning of his term Boyko Borisov announced that he stopped privatisation. You, in answer to my question about the problems in the Military Publishing House, stated in plenary that you would not allow the sale of state property. My question to you, Minister, is: why are you selling the only places of social importance to the soldiers of the reserve and reserve? What will the Ministry do to stop this practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. For a response, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Mr. Karakachanov. Here you go, Mr. Karakachanov. Three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u98	Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Vitanov! In your question next to me, you start like this: the defence department starts a hard sale of military clubs and you list them. In answer to your question, I am obliged to inform you of the following. I inform you that in my subordinate office, the Ministry of Defence has had a practice for a long time for planning and carrying out instrumental acts of property with the status of private and public-state property with the need for the Ministry of Defence and the Bulgarian Army. In part of the properties subject to your inquiry were carried out as follows: on the basis of the order of the Minister of Defence Mr. Stefan Yanev of 6 April 2017 a procedure was opened for the sale of property of private government in the management of the Ministry of Defence, representing a private establishment of a military club in a building with a number............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ An auction was held on 17 May with a secret auction for the sale of this property. On the basis of the abovementioned Ministerial Order for the initiation of the procedure, together with a protocol of the auction commission, I have issued an order of 25 May on the designation of a buyer of the property of private government, management of the Ministry of Defence. On the basis of the order entered into force and the payment of the sums due by the successful bidder of 49 500 BGN. a contract for the purchase and sale of the property in question has been concluded. Next: by decision of the Council of Ministers, I mean the caretaker government, of 15 April 2016 property representing a garrison military club in the town of Slivnitsa, located on Slivnitsa Str. Paisii Hilendarski was transferred free of charge, owned by Slivnitsa Municipality, Sofia District. By decision of the Council of Ministers of 26 January a property representing a garrison military club in the town of Sredets, located on 26 January. "Dimitar Blagoev" was transferred to the property of the municipality of Sredets, Burgas district. In summary, as of today, one property was sold and two properties were granted free of charge to municipalities. All other properties subject to your question have not been carried out by the authorising officer. The same are in the management of the Ministry of Defence and the Executive Agency To conclude, I would like to add that, as is known, the funds received from the sale of such properties are included in the state budget. My vision of things is this. Not at all cost to sell property to the Ministry of Defense. Where there is interest in municipalities, and there are similar interests, for example, Sofia Municipality has stated a desire to transfer to it a property for expansion of a cemetery park. These are things that, since they are of poor necessity and it is something that concerns public interest, I will support it. In other places where you refer to similar clubs, which you refer to as "Sredets" and "Nova Zagora" if there is a possibility to be rented rather than transferred to the municipality, I think this is better for the interests of the Ministry. It's all a matter of one, how to say, a particular problem in a particular locality. My preference is to use these properties to generate additional revenue, which, although entering the Ministry of Finance, is revenue, which I, as Minister of Defence, will subsequently ask for funds to increase the wages of the servicemen, repair and repair of fighting equipment and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. For a line, Mr. Vitanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Karakachanov, thank you for your answer. It is satisfying for me because your preferences in my opinion justify public expectations first, as well as those of the representatives of military and military-patriotic alliances. My opinion is also that part, especially clubs in the neural regions, such as Krumovgrad, Momchilgrad, Razgrad, are also centers of Bulgarian culture. In my opinion, the subject of their transfer or sale is too delicate. It is at least your duty as a patriot to conduct military-patriotic upbringing and to preserve Bulgarianity. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. For the doppelganger, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u102	Thank you for understanding. There are really very nice properties that are military clubs and can be used on purpose if, however, they are renovated. This is the case in Vidin, Plovdiv. This is also the case in Razgrad, and there are other such properties which, due to the condition in which they are located, cannot be used for anything. Therefore, it is no accident that I said that I prefer such properties rather than to stand and destroy them or rather than be sold to private interests, to be provided for use or rent to municipalities which, after recovery, would be property in which military alliances, reserve armies, and citizens would benefit. Indeed, there are buildings that are unique and are cultural monuments, but because of the lack of funds and because of the fact that they are not interested in developing any activity, they have declined over the years to such an extent that they are dangerous to use. This is my preference: municipalities, rent or some military-patriotic organization for rent. The rent may be symbolic, but there may be a commitment, not a free transfer, because there are times when similar properties transferred to one or another municipality were then subject to sale. That's my understanding of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov about the financial situation of the company. Here you go, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! As we know, TEREM is 100% owned by the Department of Defense. It includes six subsidiaries, from which one is It is notable that in recent months there has been a very large shift, several times of managers of companies................................................................................................. In January, this year has been replaced for another time by the manager of TEREM. At that time, 504 thousand were left in the company. lv. profit and 800 thousand. lv. available funds. April, a new personnel shift was made. Turns out there's already 350 grand in cash. One company "Kovelit" appears to have scored 25 anexes from January to April, that is, we have a large abuse of funds and deliberately draining of funds from the company. My question to you is: Do you know about this abuse in the TEREM military-repair companies and what measures will you take to punish the responsible persons and indict them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, for the first quarter of 2017 It ends with a profit of 293 thousand. lv. and own cash of 799 thousand. lv. Takes by the parent company amount to 303 thousand. lv. As directed by the Minister of Defence, within the caretaker government, with effect from 24 April 2017, eng. Nikolay Penev Zagorski was released and appointed manager eng. Lukanov. At that date, the enterprise's own funds were 322 thousand. lv. The claims from the parent company are the same.. 303 thousand. lv. For the second quarter of 2017 "Terem" "Letts" Ltd. reports a negative financial result - loss of 250 thousand. lv. As of 30 June 2017, the own funds were 460 thousand. BGN, since on 26 June the parent company paid 356 thousand. lv. The new claims from the parent company amount to 382 thousand. lv. In its written reply to a parliamentary question of 19 June concerning contracts concluded with legal entities of commercial companies with the principal Minister of Defence, placed by a group of MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB, which you can get acquainted with in the Ministry or on the website of the National Assembly, I have fully indicated what contracts, since there is no time to be listed, with whom and at what value it was concluded in the company in this period, which you refer to. Regarding the question of whether we are going to take responsibility from the perpetrators of the attempted robbery of "TEREM" (TELEM), I believe that we should have sufficient evidence of a crime committed and such measures will be taken. In this regard, if you have data on abuse of state capital, please provide them to me in order to facilitate such action. I assure you that in the event of a crime committed, those responsible for this will be brought to justice. I'm saying it without a drop of populism. The practice of siphoning state enterprises to the Ministry of Defence is longstanding, unfortunately. Some of them lend facilities, warehouse facilities, territory and are mainly engaged in renting, not manufacturing. At the expense of this activity, which is owned by the respective company TEREM, private companies make huge profits against the mischievous rents that the respective company of TEREM receives. This is, in my opinion, an extremely wicked practice. It does not in any way increase the ability of these enterprises to the Ministry of Defence, and it must very carefully adjust these things by enterprise, because I have just said this to your colleague, my aim is to maximize the resources as reserves from the Ministry of Defence to be put into the national budget so that we, as a minister, you as MPs, the Defence Committee, can seek additional funds for the salaries of our servicemen, to buy new equipment, so that it is clear that the Ministry of Defence is not only one user of public funds, but does everything possible to tighten the gaps from which funds are draining, to realise profits thanks to which we also have the moral basis to claim more funds in the national budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Tsonkov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I am partly satisfied with your response and I agree with you that you need to work on purpose, to heal the TEREM military repair plants, all the more so that they can be used in the upcoming modernization, at least to repair available equipment that can be used in the future. Unfortunately, poor governance in recent years has produced its results in TEREM in terms of abuse, financial status and any kind of violations. I would like to suggest that you do a very detailed analysis, not only of TEREM headquarters here, in Sofia, but also of subsidiaries. To present you with a production program, what is their vision for the future, so that you can make the right decisions with them. I believe that there are enough circumstances and facts that suggest that there are abuses in "TEREM". It seems illogical to me, since the Governor in question Zagorski has made such a large drain of funds from the same firm, which has allowed, instead of being indicted, to be rewarded and now, I don't know if you know, but he is currently an employee of TEREM, the headquarters. I don't think it's right, at least it's not serious. Therefore, I ask you to make a complete inspection and that those responsible should bear not only responsibility but also more serious measures to be taken towards them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, this is done under the leadership of the Deputy Minister of Defence Anatoly Velichkov. The structures, the subsidiaries of TEREM are going around, revisions are being made. The problem is that for a long time many of these enterprises have relied on the activity of TEREM headquarters in Sofia or if, on some interstate line, one of the ministers, or respectively, the Minister of Defence provided them with work. Unfortunately, I often speak in the years back, people who are more or less appointed on a party line than professionalism and do not behave as managers, and as officials.. are waiting for someone from Sofia to lower their work. Again, I stress the practice of using TEREM's material base only for personal interests, against ridiculous, repeating, ridiculous, offensively small rents, this is not good practice. The logical practice is to develop these enterprises, because this is their purpose for repairing our available equipment. And when we are talking about the enterprises in the defence structure, what is, of course, not to us, but to the Ministry of Economy, Because after all, they are not missionary and landlord structures, but structures that need to develop production activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. We move on to the questions to Tsetska Tsacheva, Minister of Justice. First, we will answer a question from the National Representative Pavel Shopov about the construction and commissioning of new places to endure punishment. Dear Mr. Shopov, come in for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u112	Dear Madam President, currently Minister of Justice, Mr President, honourable Members! When we talk about prisons, we all understand that we are talking about prisons in Bulgaria. The prisons in Bulgaria are old, very old, we all know it. Built more than 70-80 years ago by then standards, by then requirements, and although they are built very firmly, they are depreciated materially and morally, as they do not meet the modern concepts, of the modern standards by which prisoners suffer their punishments. That's a well-known fact. One of the criticisms that we are constantly putting up with from the European Union and from other countries is for the rights of prisoners, for the way they endure punishment and for the terrible conditions under which they endure imprisonment. And the lack of adequate facilities, let's call them prisons, hindering general prevention. In my opinion, the lack of places for prisoners is largely the reason for the penal penalty and repression in Bulgaria, which is very serious, it is a deep topic in law, as it leads periodically to the need to make amnestys in order to reduce the number of prisoners to endure punishments. My question to you is: what is being done to build new prisons according to modern requirements? What stage have the relevant policies reached in this regard, are they separate, are funds envisaged? And all of this I ask it as a question in the hope that this government, and you, in particular, the Minister of Justice, will be the ones who will finally build at least the first new prison in the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u114	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Shopov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I agree with your finding, Mr. Shopov, that in their advantage, the places of punishment, of imprisonment, are with buildings that have been built back in time. The Ministry of Justice, in particular the Directorate General, has consistently conducted a policy for the renovation of existing prison buildings and premises in the last three years, and in this sense we already have our achievements. This site is built with funds under the Norwegian Financial Mechanism. With funds from the state budget, the construction of an open-ended prison hostel of Belene to the prison in Belene, with a capacity of 60 people in prison, a new arrest in the city of Bourgas with a capacity of 36. New arrests, but since you are only asking about the prisons, I will not stop in detail at the places where the prisoners are held, as for the most part they are already going to prisons, and not as was recently to the Ministry of Interior. Currently with funds under the Norwegian Financial Mechanism are doing repairs to the prison corps in the town of Stara Zagora. This includes the construction of bathrooms in every room for the accommodation of the imprisoned and repair of all common premises of the city of Troyan to the prison in Lovech, repair, furniture and equipment of the kitchen block in Lovech, prison dormitory of the indoor type atlant. to the prison in Lovech, construction of a new kitchenette in the building of the prison in Burgas, repair and furnishing of the prison dormitory of an outdoor type. To the prison in Varna, repair, furniture and equipment of the medical center and nursery to the prison in Sliven. Since, without a doubt, only by renovating existing locations, we would not fulfil our commitments with regard to the European norms for creating such conditions as we are obliged to comply with with the prisoners, and these include 4 sq. m area for each of the prisoners, direct light, bathrooms in the respective cells Yes, funds are provided for under the Norwegian mechanism for the construction of a pilot project with a staff training centre. What is planned to be built in the territory of Kremikovtsi will be 200 keys or 200 cells for 400 prisoners will be the volume of this site. In all cases, in parallel with improving the conditions for suffering the punishment, it is my priority to improve the conditions of those working in prisons. It's about the prison administration, the people who are committed to strict enforcement of the law and compliance with the rules in these establishments. Regarding your second question, which you ask: when is the launch of this new site expected? In the beginning of 2018, the funds that have been awarded in all cases are being used after public procurement under the Public Procurement Act, and the information about the procedures has been published on the website of the General Directorate for Punishment and the website of the Public Procurement Agency. I have detailed information not only about the extent of repairs in each of the prisons, but also about the arrests. If you wish, I am ready to provide it to you, as otherwise my answer must become a roll-call listing of specific repair activities that go to individual prisons and arrests on the territory of the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u115	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. The line, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. Some of this data came out in the mass media, but it was very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very different. For the first time, you gave a picture of what is being done in relation to the prison case. It is evident that the prison case is developed mainly through renovations and by renovation of existing sites and these 400 places, which will represent the new places, in the new prison in Kremikovtsi. All this is positive because for years nothing has been done in this direction. And despite these 400 places, and despite this new prison, I believe that they will not be enough, too, because the fight against negative phenomena, with waste, with theft, idleness, including those phenomena that affect the ruling class and the political elite of the country needs new places to endure punishments. In order for the judicial system to be effective in order for it to produce its produce, there must also be places to put up with the penalties that will be imposed. This issue is general and it is part of the question of judicial reform, the future of the judiciary, its development. The material base in this regard is extremely important. I promise to follow this topic, this issue and to cooperate with all my powers, including my colleagues, to finance this activity, as it is not cheap. And to protect the society from those who occasionally escalate from the liberals in Bulgaria for private prisons, private interference in this regard. This is an activity of the state, exclusively of the state, of the judiciary and we should not make innovations, actions that are not of the essence for Bulgaria, for our conditions, for our tradition, so that this new prison in Kremikovtsi will become faster and more to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Here you go, dear Mrs. Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u118	Dear Mr. Shopov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would not agree with you that until now the state institutions have not made efforts to repair the existing building fund and in terms of building up modern places to endure the punishment of being deprived of liberty. I stated in my reply that there is a complete continuity between policies in the last three years, which have been carried out by the various teams of the Ministry. However, my ambition is to speed up repairs and improve the living conditions of prisoners, but, again, I say, in parallel, at the same time as improving the working conditions of prison administrations. As for whether we should fully focus on building a whole new site, this should go along with prevention, with other means that can be used, with other types of punishments as probation and so on. Because agree that it cannot be the goal of a government saturation of the map of Bulgaria with such objects as to serve such punishment. I take it you'll be monitoring this process. I am ready, and if, on your next question, you ask in writing, which will once again be available on the website of the National Assembly, I could be much more specific with the information available to me at the moment, but the oral control regulation in the Chamber does not allow me, in view of the time, to answer you in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u119	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. The second question to the Minister of Justice is from the National Representative Vasil Antonov on concrete actions against the practice of the appointment of the enduring punishment. You have the floor, dear Mr. Antonov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u120	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen ministers! Dear Minister Tsacheva, on 10 July 2017 at 19.25 in the town of Belene, a vehicle with special mode performs a crash and hits a cyclist. When registering the infringement at the RPD later, notice, there is a certain time gap, it is found that the special mode motor vehicle has not launched its sound alarm and the corresponding others which are, and the person who has managed the position of a driver is a person deprived of liberty. The regulations in force in the prisons allow such a thing to be carried out and accordingly determine the regime in which these posts are to be carried out. But clearly, without checking, it is clear that there are a number of violations that have been committed. First, the person who is acting as a driver is not accompanied by anyone in the vehicle, and there is also doubt whether there was a corresponding person who was not present at that time in the subsequent inspection which was carried out by the police officer. My question to you: what specific actions will you take to specify the regulation that solves the work issues of prisoners; what will you take to improve control of the implementation of the relevant regulation? Thank you, I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u122	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Antonov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before answering this particular question, I would like to state categorically that the factual situation described by you in the case of July 10th, this year, with a prisoner who is deprived of liberty and driving a service car, does not correspond to the facts and data which have been determined in a clear manner by my timely inspection of the Inspectorate under art. 46 of the Law of the Ministry of Justice. The painting is clear. Indeed, a person who suffers punishment for being deprived of liberty has operated a service car of the Belene prison, but there is no evidence whatsoever that there is an accident, i.e. a contact between the car operated by the person deprived of liberty and the citizen concerned. We also have documentation from Emergency Aid in Belene, where it is explicitly stated that the person fell only and refused any medical care due to lack of need. For me, it is an important question that you are asking, and it is related to the legal capacity of persons imprisoned to work in a state of prisons. It's listed in the Punishment and Penitentiary Act. The law was adopted in 2009 and its provisions were developed in detail in the Rules of Implementation of the Law. According to an explicit text, the Minister of Justice may, by order of his own, on a proposal from the Director General of the Department of Justice, determine a certain number of posts from each place for the execution of a sentence to be deprived of liberty to be employed by such persons. The law is this, the Rules in particular, which limits to what size these places can be. The norm is up to 12%. In the present case, for this calendar year, the Minister of Justice's order from the beginning of the calendar year 2017 sets out the posts for which such persons may be appointed. In the majority of cases it is about service staff who work for maintenance of hygiene, equipment, in the sense of kitchen activities, there are also jobs for drivers. I believe that, in relation to these positions, the criterion should be increased, control. This is why, immediately after the incident, there was such an order issued by the Director General of the General Directorate for Punishment, who requested and ordered stricter accountability to the service cars and tracking the movements of these cars. All of them are intended to have a GPS device, but there is no legal requirement that the person who controls the car should be accompanied by another employee, because it makes no sense that certain positions should be occupied by persons by state who are appointed by employment outside those who suffer punishment. I repeat: up to 12% of the total composition of persons who suffer punishment in any place for the execution of punishment is admissible under the Law and, in this sense, I cannot agree with your qualification that this is a vicious practice. This is a practice in the implementation of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. Mr. Antonov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u124	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Tsacheva, we do have a private case, which to a large extent focuses us on the Ordinance and as a principle of laboring by prisoners. And it is certainly very important because it is a step towards socializing these people and gives opportunities that they want to do work. The percentage you are talking about is, indeed, 12% of the Regulation and the Rules of Procedure, but of those who are in the closed type of work, they are much less, they are somewhere within 2-3 percent, unfortunately, I say this because on one side there is not enough opportunity to work, on the other hand, there is clearly no ambition to work. This is something that occurs especially in those who serve the smaller sentences of those imprisoned with smaller sentences. Those with greater sentences, both in the case and in the case of more severe sentences, as is the case in the case at hand, are involved in a driver who is deprived of a serious offence committed by a murder. The case deserves attention. I won't go into details of it, but there's no sound signal, there's no light signal. I spoke with the very person who is the cyclist Marin Savov is called, I can give you the phones. We've got a hit like this. How the work is done, that's another matter. However, what is undoubtedly important that we should note, and what should happen as a perspective, is that we must try to try and, in particular, you as a minister, and the Directorate itself, to streamline once again the Ordinance, to allow the economic entities that wish and could, in this case, do such a maximum work on attracting more freedom of work, to give them a better working regime and better access to them. On the other hand, the Ordinance that we are commenting on should be strictly implemented because we do not have such observations in this particular case and not only in it, but in this place that we are commenting on. There are other similar cases, but I hope that we will not comment on it subsequently.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u126	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Antonov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's really about a private case that has a lot of peculiarities. The person has actually been convicted of a serious deliberate crime, but at the same time we have an act of pardon, partly reduced the sentence. Either way, it's in an open-ended place at the moment. However, I share your reasoning on the need to create a job opportunity by prisoners, because it is a fundamental obligation for these people to be re-educated in prisons, and through labour, their subsequent socialization is easier in society again. In this sense, as I make a commitment to closely monitor the specific positions that are assigned to work by such persons, at the same time to seek the possibility that those percentages that you shared about the indoor places, if possible in the implementation of the rules of the Law and in particular the Rules on its application, should be sought for an opportunity to increase them. Otherwise, much more difficult will be the reinvigorating role and the socialization of a person in our society once he is out of this type of establishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u127	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to questions to Nikolay Nankov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. He will answer first a question from the MP Vasil Antonov, Stefan Burgeev and Chavdar Velinov about the state and municipal road infrastructure in the territory of Pleven district.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! It is undeniable that the state of a country's road infrastructure has a decisive influence on its economic development, economic growth, the existence of foreign investment and so on. In Pleven the road infrastructure is relatively well developed, but as far as a significant part of the road sections are concerned, it is seriously destroyed and compromised, which has a negative impact on those living in the field and the development of the business. According to the Roads Act, the Republicans are managed by the Road Infrastructure Agency and the mayors' municipalities. The municipalities co-ordinate with the Agency the Road Infrastructure projects for the construction and connection of these roads with Republican roads. In this regard, Minister, please provide us with up-to-date data on the state and municipal road infrastructure, the state of the road pavement throughout Pleven region and answer the following questions: what measures and solutions for rehabilitation, new construction and improvement of its condition have you foreseen by the end of 2017? Which sections of the state and municipal road infrastructure in the area are in extremely poor condition and which of them are you planning to rehabilitate by the end of 2017? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u129	Thank you, dear Mr. Velinov. For a response, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nikolay Nankov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u130	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Velinov! Me and Fakir being in the fast talk, I could hardly answer in 3 minutes in detail the questions you have asked. Very quick. According to the Roads Act, the Road Infrastructure Agency is managing the Republican Roads, exclusively state-owned, Republican Roads, Highways, Roads, I, II, III Class. The roads from the Republican road network on the territory of Pleven region have a total length of 794 km and 110 m, including road connections. After a comparison to a road with two lanes the total length is 820 km 930 m. Of them 321 km are in good condition, 104 km The renovations undertaken by the Road Infrastructure Agency are financed under the Programme Current repairs and maintenance, major repairs programmes and programmes co-financed by European funds. The approved annual budget under the current repair and maintenance for 2017 for the district of Pleven is 1 million. 588 thousand. BGN 224. with VAT. At present, the following is fulfilled. During the months of April and May repairs were carried out worth 720 thousand. lv. with VAT. At present are under construction repair works on road pavements worth 522,000. lv. with VAT. In July, there is a job to be performed on the same program worth about 60 thousand. lv. with VAT. According to the additional assignment to the contract for ongoing repair and maintenance, repairs were undertaken for Republican road III-304, Byala Station, Pleven District, Izgrev, Tranchovitsa, Banovo, Bazova neighborhood, Novachene, Debovo worth almost 600 thousand. lv. VAT in order to improve the overall condition of the pavement by performing machine patching of the most affected areas. In 2014 are included two sections falling within the territory of Pleven district: Lot 7, road II-35 Pleven-Lovech on the territory of Pleven region with a total length of 11 km 784 m and Lot 17, road III-306, Cherven Bryag-Chomakovtsi with a length of almost 10 km, which is entirely within the territory of Pleven district. There are technical rehabilitation projects for both sites. Public works contracts and construction supervision were carried out for Lot 7. There is a contract with the selected contractor for carrying out construction supervision. However, the decision to elect a contractor is being appealed to the construction works. The procedures for selection of contractor and consultant for construction supervision are currently under way for Lot 17. The rehabilitation of road II-11, Milkovica-Cerkovitsa and road III-18, Gulyantsi-Dolna Mitropolia, API has applied together with Romanian partners to finance under the Programme "INTERREG" A good news, a little bit outside the procedures today I realized that both roads will be approved in the first phase, so we will apply to the second to receive funding for the two roads along the On the territory of Pleven for road sections poor condition is taken care of according to budget resources. In order to improve road sections, which are assessed as poor, is 368 km long and requires more than 100 million. lv. for expert projections. In the back, I might be able to give more information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u131	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line? Here you go, Mr. Velinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I have no reason to doubt that the answer to our questions, you provide us with all the information available in your administration. To the roads that are in extremely poor condition, and you plan to rehabilitate by the end of 2017, we could add a lot more roads, but they are registered in our reception rooms, so I will save time to sort them out. Either way, these are the facts, and they can't not be accepted. There's something in your answer, Mr. Minister, that bothers me personally. It worries me and the answers you gave to colleagues in the previous days for parliamentary control. You and I are permanent participants these days. This is what we're talking about. You represent the situation, the state of the road infrastructure in Pleven region and the prospects for its development as a mixture of facts plus plans, assumptions, ideas and, in a sense, fictions. Moreover, these fictions are not generalisations of the facts, in my opinion, but rather a substitute for them. How in this colorful environment can we see the way in which you will take these backward regions to the highway of sustainable economic development and what social perspective should we outline before these God-forsaken people? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] But that's another question, it's a political issue. It's a mixture of reality and reality, of facts and fiction. That is why I ask you and I would ask you to provide us with a linear timetable for the implementation of your planned rehabilitation measures, new construction and so on by the end of 1917. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So that the people who live in this region understand that they live in the country that we describe to them and not where they actually live.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Velinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u135	Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Velinov! I didn't see what fictions, abstractions and other concepts you saw in my response, you felt rather in my response, as I mentioned concrete steps. Two roads from all 26 Lots, which are rehabilitated under the Program "Regions in Growth" are in Pleven district. Two out of 26, I mentioned who are the Lots of Lovech-Pleven and respectively Cherven Bryag-Chomakovtsi. Apart from that, in response to other questions from MPs from Pleven District we talked that by the end of the year, there was not just time left in the answer to the question, we would rehabilitate the section of the third-class road from the municipal center in the city. Levski to Gradishte. Apart from that, the road from the city. Levski to the border with the district of Lovech, the municipality of Letnitsa, on the territory of the settlement Asenovtsi will also be rehabilitated in 2017. Against the backdrop of really extremely restrictive and conservative, and insufficient even budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency, evaluating the necessity and prioritizing the road sections in other areas, not only from Northwestern but from all over Bulgaria, what we will do in 2017 in Pleven district against the background of all other districts is many more. That's a lot more than that! So rest assured. I will provide in full the answer to your question in writing, I think that this was the more appropriate option, by the way, since 20 minutes will not be enough for me to list the road sections in bad condition and what we plan to do on a schedule not only in 2017, but also in 2018, but also in 2018, give God, and in 2019 and in 2020. So I will answer your question, I will provide complete reference, including a linear schedule of repairs both in this and in the next year on the territory of Pleven district. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u137	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question, he is from the National Representative Altimir Emilov about a problem section of the plumbing network in the town of Tutrakan, Silistra district. Here you go, Mr. Adamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I will introduce you to a problem section of the plumbing network in the town of Tutrakan, Silistra district. This problem has existed for years and reached its peak, which greatly worries the affected citizens of the city of Tutrakan. The pipeline of Stefan Karadzha Street is heavily depreciated and causes numerous accidents in the water supply area. Residents are very worried about water quality and frequent braking due to numerous accidents. There hasn't been a replacement in the last 53 years. The plumbing is located in a 700m active landslide zone, serves 75 residential buildings or about 500 inhabitants, as well as kindergarten. The problem is growing every day as school buses pass the street and accidents become more frequent. With regard to the above facts, my question to you is: what measures will you take to improve the quality of water and the well-being of the affected residents in the city of Tutrakan?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u139	Thank you, dear Mr. Adamov. The Minister of Regional Development for an answer. Minister Nankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Adamov, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works implements an annual investment programme aimed at improving the water infrastructure in the country. This is the programme with national funding and not under the Operational Programme "Environment" or the Rural Development Programme. For this purpose, the Directorate of Water Supply and Sewerage shall maintain a database in which the reasoned proposals for financing of water and sewerage projects from the state budget are presented by municipalities and district administrations. The sites are assessed and prioritized in accordance with established criteria for the selection of water sites and activities for funding from the Investment Program of our Ministry. By letter of 5 June 2017, the Municipality of Tutrakan informed us of a procedure and a selected contractor of an existing water pipeline and building construction of Stefan Karadzha Street and sought assistance in providing construction funds and construction supervision of almost 300 thousand. lv. to solve the problem that you summarized in the question. The request submitted is included in the database and assessed in accordance with the assessment criteria as eligible for funding, and the financial resources for its implementation will also be provided in 2017. The Ministry has concluded an agreement in 2017 with municipalities in which water projects with funding from the state budget will be implemented, expecting a much more significant amount of money to be saved than I have indicated, from the public procurements currently carried out by municipal administrations, so financial resources will be available. At the same time, something in addition, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works with the financial support of Operational Programme 2014 The objectives of these pre-investment studies relate to the identification of measures to achieve compliance with national and European legislation in the field of drinking water, waste water extraction and treatment, the effective absorption of EU funds and, of course, the development of water infrastructure and the improvement of the service at a socially bearable price. The measures for Tutrakan municipality include reconstruction of pre-investment areas. The measures that will receive European funding under the OPS include reconstruction of sections of the highways with multiple accidents at a total value without VAT of about 2.5 million. September month we will have detailed quantitative-value accounts, reconstruction of the inner plumbing network of the city of Tutrakan for a total value without VAT about 4.5 million. lv. and reconstruction of Tutrakan's agglomeration system for a total value without VAT of around 5.7 million. lv. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u141	Thank you, dear Minister. A line? Here you go, Mr. Adamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u142	Dear Minister, I am pleased with your answer. I undertake to follow what you said about the end of 2017. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u143	Thank you, dear Mr. Adamov. Mr. Minister? I won't. Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov, on behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u144	Honourable Members of the House, Madam President, Dear Minister! On July 23, 2017 are 75 years old, since the same date in 1942 at the garrison shooting range in Sofia were shot Anton Ivanov, Petar Bogdanov, Nikola Vaptsarov, Anton Popov and Atanas Romanov. According to the indictment, the indictment of the accused consists in organising battle groups and subversive activities against the public and state order established by the Constitution. We should note that in 1942 the Tarnovo Constitution did not work, Boris III's monarchic regime adopted the Law on the Protection of the State, with which the repression and murder of Bulgarian citizens with non-fascist and anti-fascist political beliefs were carried out. A year earlier Bulgaria has joined the countries of the fascist axis through a treaty, fully voluntary and conscious, and political organizations are operating in the Bulgarian society that preach the new world order of the Fuhrer. The five defendants are accused of destroying the constitutional state structure of the Kingdom of Bulgaria. Among them is the poet Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov, who proved with his life and with his creativity his faith in the beauty and humane future of society. The accusation of terrorism of the Sofia Military Field Court and the verdict seemed absurd against the background of the poems about love, homeland, the expanse of the sea and romance. It became clear from the police protocols that by 19.50 on July 23rd came the Commandant's aide with the priest and announced that the convicted Anton Nikolov Popov was allowed before the execution was married to Rositsa Manolova, daughter of former Minister Hristo Manolov, who was pregnant by him. After a while the car arrived with the bride, Peter Bogdanov's brother, namely Stefan Bogdanov, the wife of Nikola Vaptsarov and the wife of Peter Bogdanov. Undoubtedly, this moment contains exceptional personal and political drama. The families of those accused of subversive activity against the state of Boris III are forgiven before their passage into the Pantheon of the brightest Bulgarian heroes. At the last moment before prosecutor Anton Popov says: "The day of freedom will come when a Bulgarian Emil Zola will say: "I blame you! " and this Emil Zola will be the people! The police report of this 23 July ended as follows: "The faces who had already placed the book hoods withdrew immediately, and immediately the condemned group sang: "Toz, who fell into a fight for freedom........................... This is the end of the life path of the genius of Bulgarian poetry Nikola Vaptsarov the poet translated into 93 languages in 64 countries, the poet whose poetry became a symbol of resistance against darkness, dictatorship and fascism. But also the poetry of Vaptsarov became the epitome of the quest for the romance of the future just and humane world. For him, the life that I would do anything is the words of an incorrigible optimist, of a man of faith and determination in the victory of life-affirming universal values. The verdict of the Military Field Court against Vaptsarov and his comrades is a synthesized expression of the ugliest and ugliest phenomenon in the Bulgarian politics, which ended fascism with the heroic efforts of dozens and hundreds of dead poets. In 1999 the chief prosecutor proposed to the Supreme Court of Cassation to cancel the sentence of the Sofia Military Field Court and justify Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov. The Attorney General's proposal has been left unattended. According to the Supreme Court of Cassation, the proposal is inadmissible because it cannot be applied to judicial acts which became final before 1 April 1998. Legal and legal case studies are just one explanation why Vaptsarov and his comrades were not justified. The real explanation is that the ideal to which Vaptsarov and his comrades had dedicated their lives was subjected to systematic destruction by the builders of modern Bulgarian democracy. The second shooting of Vaptsarov from independent Bulgarian justice resembles in an amazing way the verdict of the Military Field Court of 1942. And as it should be said: here the similarity is not accidental. Today Bulgaria is pursuing new ideals related to the carefree Atlantic expanses, over which, however, the stars of Famagusta do not shine. But the next generations of our country will read the poetry of Vaptsarov, not the sentences of the military-field courts of His Royal Majesty Boris III. The shot poets are the universal human criterion for freedom of spirit, creativity and resistance. Their death gives the power of the ideal for which there are no bullets found. [[Extreme applauses from BSP for Bulgaria and Volya.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u145	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. We are moving on to the next issue of today's parliamentary control, which is from the MPs Manol Genov and Ivan Chenchev on the state of road sections of Republican road I-8 Sofia Pazardzhik. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u146	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I take this opportunity to thank you, Mr. Minister, for being regular in parliamentary control, unlike many of your colleagues, and I join the discontent of the group of the BSP for Bulgaria and the fact that many of your colleagues from the Council of Ministers are irregular and the MPs do not have the opportunity to ask their questions in due time. Dear Minister, due to increased traffic during the summer season at Trakia Motorway, we are very often witnessed by heavy crashes, which require very often the traffic to be closed or restricted for hours. This creates great inconvenience for travelers. We're all witnessing for hours, huge traffic jams, waste of working time, delays for airplanes, trains and failure to make other transport connections. The use of bypass routes is very common, using sections of the Republican route I-8 Sofia Pazardzhik. Partitions of this road are in an extremely miserable position, with holes typical of a lunar landscape. An eloquent example is the division between Novi Khan and Ihtiman. Mr. Minister, I assure you that there has been no meeting or reception in the region that I have attended, that this issue has not been raised very strongly. I know that my colleagues at previous national meetings have also put it on the agenda, but at this point there is no result. Minister, does the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works as the principal of the API plan to conduct a recent rehabilitation of that area and within what deadlines? Once again I take the opportunity to invite you to a convenient time together to investigate this route to really see what a miserable state it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u147	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chenchev! First-class road I-8 Pazardzhik "Plovdiv "Harman" is located in the territories of the districts of Sofia, Plovdiv and Haskovo. Specifically with regard to the section of the first-class road between Novi Hahn and Ihtiman, the segment from km 110 end of the village of Vakarel, to km 118, a intersection with third-class Republican III-8223 for the village of Verinsko, since 2015, you know, not only from the reception, that it is officially closed for the movement of all vehicles in both directions due to poor technical operational condition. The station has been flagged and road sign B2 is placed on these locations. The entry of the vehicle in both directions is prohibited. The road in this part is not subject to ongoing repair and maintenance activities. It is impossible, because I do not know if it is exactly the definition that you have set a lunar landscape, but the road is in extremely bad condition even in some areas there is no road. The quoted segment from km 110 to km 118 falls within the scope of road I-8, for which in 2016 a technical project for major repair and rehabilitation and partial reconstruction in better areas was developed. That is why I mentioned that it cannot be rehabilitated under ongoing repair and maintenance and a technical project was commissioned in 2016. The section is part of the site of Sofia, road I-8, from 89 km to 124 km, with a total length of 34, 83 km, which section, the entire section of Plovdiv, is included in the Programme "Main repair" for the current year. In this regard, as you assure me of the seriousness of the problem, I assure you that on 7 July this year, two weeks ago, the API announced a contract for the selection of a contractor for the construction works for the rehabilitation of the entire 35 km, I mentioned from km 89 to km 124. Public procurement will be announced next week for the selection of a consultant for construction supervision. Repairs and activities will start immediately after the conclusion of the two contracts for construction and construction works and for construction supervision. I mentioned why it cannot be commissioned soon, quickly repair and maintenance. You yourself qualified it as a path of lunar landscape. There we have places where the foundation has been compromised, so it has been necessary to prepare a technical project and the award of major repairs, I stress, a major one, which has already happened on 7 July. The ranking of the participants and after signing the contract will start the repair activities immediately. The budget for the road is secure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u149	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Chenchev, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, Mr. Secretary, sounds good. Naturally, we will monitor what is happening and how the overall action will take place regarding this road. However, I would like to visit with you road I-8. I read an interview with you today or perhaps today is published, in which you give an idea about the Thrace highway and about its expansion in the section Sofia - Plovdiv, which is good and you confirm the statistics that last year they were passing on busy days like Fridays on 32-33 thousand cars. This year the number of traffic has increased and this number is increased by up to 6-7 thousand cars or 40 thousand on Fridays passing along this section of the highway. This statistic, of course, shows how important the bypass route is because, apart from Bulgarian citizens, of course, foreign ones also pass. In the event of severe accidents, I hope there is no, of course, this section becomes a major bypass route. I hope, together with you, that we will go this way and then, of course, there will be concrete results of the question, of the actions, so that when we go to the people, we can show that we have all done the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u151	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chenchev! You want us to go together. Nothing bad, I'd love to. I don't know when you were last there, I passed there yesterday, by the way, as the construction itself was about to start................................................................................................................................................... There's no need, as they say, to prove ourselves by the stands. We're going to go there, the road is really in a tragic state, so we've taken it and I think you're aware of the planning and exploration policy we're pursuing, despite the limited financial resources. We also accidentally touched on the topic of "Trakiya" because not only compared to 2016 the current traffic not only of passenger cars, as you said, but of all vehicles of "light" and trucks, reported an increase on an annual basis 2016 compared to 2015 around 15%, 2017 compared to 2016. Some 20%, i.e. the trend towards the increase in traffic, was driven, was traffic of Bulgarian carriers, owners of cars growing. It is also because of the fact that we have to pursue a consistent policy and because of the fact that you have set out in your question, the state of the road is clear to the Agency and its previous managements. It is good that we started in 2016 with the design. This year we assign, secure the resource and complete the rehabilitation, these 35 km after signing the contract no longer than six months. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u153	Thank you, dear Minister. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski and the National Representative Manol Genov, on the urgent repair and reconstruction activities of a road facility, bridge over the river Bearka, on the road E-80. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues! Dear Minister, one of the most important international highways in the international road: E-80, passes through the municipality of Parvomay. During a deliberate meeting on the problems of the municipality, the question was not raised about the status of bridge facility on the River Bear on the road E-80. The need for repair and reconstruction activities of the road facility is visible with the naked eye. Even a man, without the necessary expertise, can see the broken supports of the bridge, the dangled wooden structures. In case of urgent repairs more than 10 years ago, wooden supports have been placed, whose resistance today is questionable. The traffic of heavy goods trucks, cars and other vehicles is extremely loaded, and existing structural changes are of particular danger to passers-by. On the bridge there are only boards, and all the bulkheads and railings are missing, which makes it dangerous to pass. Therefore, Dear Minister, our questions to you are as follows: has an expert assessment been made of the status of the bridge facility, given the current status of the bridge? Do you plan to carry out appropriate emergency actions regarding its putting into normal operation and, if you are planning, what time will they be carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u155	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovallisky. Mr. Secretary for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Turnovalliski, the concrete arches of the facility above the River Bear on the E-80 road were executed in 1943. Some dark times in your opinion, and the beaming part of the period 1951 1953. Since then, a major renovation of the facility, unfortunately, has not been carried out, except for the reinforcement with wooden supports, as you yourself pointed out, in 1982. Over the years, works have been carried out on ongoing maintenance repairs, which in no way improve the operational status of the foundation on the basis of the bridge, but only on the asphalt floor. The condition of the bridge is monitored systematically. The facility has been investigated repeatedly by specialists of the Institute of Roads and Bridges, with a last detailed survey with a revision machine being carried out in the distant 2007. 10 years ago, specialists from Regional Road Management Plovdiv conduct a technical examination of the facility in order to establish its current state. During this year a view of the facility over the river bear was carried out in April. The condition of the facility has been assessed as transmitting. The elements of the bridge are highly compromised. Activities, at least on ongoing maintenance, are no longer intended. In view of the recent significant period of the last investigation, I have mentioned the current, 10 years, in 2017, a new examination of the facility by a specialist from the Institute of Roads and Bridges will be planned in order to assess its current situation and to express an opinion on the measures to be taken to restore it in the long term. In the short term, the specialists will send a request for replacement of the existing restrictive systems with new ones meeting the current requirements and standards, of course, for quality. After carrying out the audit in the framework of calendar year 2017, we will necessarily include in the 2018 budget funds for which we will know respectively what their size will be, in the budget and the 2018 budget forecast for its full strengthening and long-term resolution of this problem, which exists for more than 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u157	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u158	Dear Minister, there is no way to be satisfied with your response, and no longer will the inhabitants of the municipality of Parvomay be satisfied. You have made a retrospective of the implementation of the bridge, of its major repairs that have been carried out, and the years in which they have not been carried out, revisions have been made and the most shameful is that its condition is transmitting, but funds will be provided for 2018. I'm going to. Clearly, nothing will happen in 2018. Does this mean that we must have an accident and become an emergency bridge in order to take urgent measures and strengthen this bridge, because you yourself said that its condition is not good, and traffic is very busy there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u159	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovallisky. Mr. Minister, for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Turnovalliski, the mayor and the inhabitants of Parvomay yesterday were satisfied enough with the fact that we found a road node of Plovdivtovo, built in less than 45 days. I think everyone is aware of the fact that, in the absence of sufficient financial resources, sometimes even inaction in the years back, I mentioned when the last investigation was carried out. There were other ministers and deputy ministers, by the way, and 2008 and 2013, 2014, Mr. Turnovalyski. The fact is that 2017. If you don't want us to do all the problems in the country in two months and to solve them, we have foreseen a complete constructive survey of the bridge, which will give us a clear idea of no pallet repairs that you insist on, and which in any way.., they may have calmed the inhabitants of the municipality of Parvomay in a short time. We want to solve the long-term problem. That's why I mentioned it. We will update the survey from 2007, we will complement it, of course, with the 10-year period of dynamic changes of load on the bridge, have proved, I am convinced, other structural defects on it after its operation. We will target, within the framework of this year, the measures, we will value them with this audit and 2018 we will do a complete reconstruction and major repair of the bridge facility to solve the long-term and lasting problem. I have also mentioned that, under the policy that the Agency is conducting, with a view to ensuring the maximum level of security of the transit through the Republican Road Network and its facilities, in the short term, I have mentioned what measures, the safe passage through the facility. But I repeat once again its complete reconstruction will be a fact in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u161	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MP Pavel Shopov on the construction of the road Burgas "Nesebar" Sunny Beach. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I have asked this question three times in previous editions of the Bulgarian Parliament as a member of the party "Attack" and now this is the first question I ask in this Parliament as a Member of the Parliament from the United Patriarchs. With three hundred dawns in the last 10 years, since I have been following the topic, two reconstructions have been carried out, representing a doubling of the road, two lanes to move from the direction of Sarafovo, four kilometers and something, as I have detected it in kilometers, and about a kilometer and a half to two to the intersection of Ravda. And I asked this question before the Prime Minister's last statements came out, visiting Burgas and its surroundings, and reflected in this regard in the media, with which statements and information is given a bright perspective to this site. Not without exaggeration should we consider that doubling the road in full between Burgas and Nessebar is one of the biggest, most important priorities for the state. There was a time when some 70 million were separated, which went to strengthen the bridges, after the earthquake in Pernishko, and the danger that arose. Then things didn't happen, they didn't work out, but there were constant problems with alienating the trip around the village of Aheloy, which is also why things didn't hurry up and get finalized. The road is becoming increasingly important after the Black Sea Highway is not implemented. This is already preferred for Varna and the people from Dobrich to travel from Sofia to their homeland, and with full reason, that is, traffic is increasing. What are the prospects and especially on the issue of the deviation from Lukoil-Neftohim so that the road does not enter Burgas? This topic is less being treated and commented, and there things are far from clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u163	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Shopov! I do not just hope that I am optimistic that this will be your last question within this National Assembly concerning the completion of the road, its transformation into a four-band between Burgas and Nessebar. The work on his realization hasn't interrupted. This is confirmed by the existence of technical projects for the individual road sections forming the route of the Republican road in the area concerned and initiated or in many cases completed procedures necessary for the field provision of the project, as well as for the selection of contractors for the construction of the site itself. The reasons why the modernisation of the whole section has not been completed by date can be summarized the following groups: labour-intensive alienation procedures, you rightly mentioned, an appeal to the procedure for selecting a contractor and construction supervision in second place, there were moments related to legislative changes that occurred in the process of approving investment projects, their processing had to be carried out duly. Current information on status, very briefly. From the road intersection Kusharite to the crossroads Nessebar with the construction of a second road sail there is a finished technical project since 2012. A detailed plot plan has been developed which has been returned for corrections by the National Expert Council on a structure in the territory of the Ministry due to problems concerning the project engineering infrastructure. Fixed parcel plan will be again submitted for approval to the Ministry in August this year. In the other section of Nessebar through Ravda to the village of Aheloy, construction was completed in 2008. The road was four-banded, two lanes for movement in the direction. The tour of the village of Aheloy. We have prepared a technical project from 2013, approved a detailed plot plan from 2013 and the most enjoyable in the case that there are completed alienation procedures. Currently, the contract for the selection of a contractor for carrying out the construction and repair works is being appealed. We had a theme in Burgas 10 days ago on the case. We have the assurance that within the next few weeks, the complaint will be withdrawn so that it can launch The Aheloy division has also had a ready technical project since 2012. The road route falls into public property for transport needs and therefore no estrangement procedures are required. The procedure for the selection of a builder is appealed, with a decision of the SAC returning the file of the contracting entity for the continuation of the procurement procedure, subject to the reasons set out in the decision of the SAC, i.e. that is where the contract is finished and we are starting again the construction of the section from Aheloy to Pomorie. The more problematic section 5 is the tour of the town of Pomorie. There we have made a technical project from 2013 and a detailed plot plan that will be approved after the presentation of the Cadastral Map Change Project, the cadastral registers operating in the land of the town of Pomorie. The important problem is that a estrangement procedure is delayed. We also have archeology in Pomorie's tour, we will wait for both procedures of archaeology and alienation procedures to begin real action. There we have a finally elected contractor in construction, we have a signed contract, but we are still waiting for estrangement procedures and archaeology to be completed. The reconstruction of the section from the beginning of the entrance of the town of Pomorie to the district of Sarafovo with a length of 2.7 km, in 2013 the section was completed, the movement was launched in both lanes. With regard to the question raised about the removal of traffic from the city of Burgas, for example, starting with the one located in the area near the current entrance of the town station, I am making the following clarification. A technical project for the road of the city of Bourgas, first stage of the road I-9 Sarafovo-Burgas and on the road I-6 from Vetren to Burgas, was prepared at the award of the Agency. The new road link will be realized as the first stage of the planned plan of the city and will be a four-way road connecting the road I-6 Sofia Burgas and the road I-9 Burgas, Varna, exported to the territory, located north of the zh.k. - I'm going up. - I'm going up. A plot of land plan was chosen for the site, which was approved by Order of 31 August 2016. However, it was appealed to the Administrative Court. It's slowing us down right now. First instance in favour of the contracting entity, the meeting is scheduled for October 2nd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u165	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Shopov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u166	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For the first time, we heard things firsthand, not through the media, not interpreted on the pages of the newspapers or on TV screens. In what you answered, there is optimism, and there are pessimistic notes with these appeals. However, we remain in the hope that this will be the last question in connection with this saga that has lasted for more than a decade. We made it clear that the stages are four, that each of these four stages should be considered separately. Hopefully, step by step next year, in the next tourist season, to be able to say that one or even two of these stages have been canceled, which will bring us closer to the testament goal, this is a great success, because this is one of the most important construction tasks in the country that influences and matters in tourism, traffic. To a large extent he will decide and deliver the traffic to Varna and Dobrich via the highway of Trakiya, as it happens, because people are doing the right thing by traveling along this route already. Thank you and remain optimistic.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u167	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. For the back, Mr. Secretary? I won't. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Todor Bajchev, regarding the necessary repair of road III 539 Troyanovo. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The municipality of Karnobat and the municipality of Kameno are two neighbouring municipalities. We have a common line. So much for geographical features. We don't have a road connection. The current road, which is part of the Republican road network, namely III 539, can be called a road, because unlike other roads, where there are many holes, cracks, tracks, bumps on the traffic lane, here the pyramid is inverted and, Minister, I can boldly say that some sections have even asphalt now. What do I mean? On this road even the tarmac, i.e. the gravel, is torn down in places. He's fighting like something on a dirt road, there's a lot of holes, he stops, he goes around, transport companies avoid it, and citizens don't go down that road anymore, which is understandable. Many enthusiastic citizens have made videos, uploaded them to social networks, sent to various television shows, but that is not the point at the moment. In meetings with citizens, this topic is raised and they want the relevant officials to do their job. I address you as Minister: is this road being repaired and when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u169	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Baychev, you are now addressing me, I will address you in a few months with a request to increase the budget of the Agency of Road Infrastructure in the consolidated annual financial framework, as the more than 40 questions asked within a month and a half in Friday's parliamentary control concerning rehabilitation of road infrastructure and Republican infrastructure, re-establishment, building of new sections have exceeded the budget for two and a half years. If you help me raise the budget... Otherwise, I'd like to get back to the specific path. The Republican Road plus the settlements of Troyanovo, Asparuhovo and the town of Asparuhovo Karnobat is road III-5391, Troyanovo, Asparuhovo, Krushevo, Detelina, Dragantsi, Karnobat, the road is located on the territory of Burgas region. The condition of the sections from kilometer zero to 6 km is currently 1331 km with a total length of 14 km is unsatisfactory because the road repair has not been done for more than 40 years. A new construction is needed, and in certain places due to the presence of large deformations, new asphalt layers are needed. The Road Infrastructure Agency takes care of the Republican road with a view to securing the most dangerous places. In the budget we have, even that is impossible. This year we are doing a patching of a cold asphalt mixture on some sections. In July is planned cutting of shrubs 6500 sq. m. At present, I also mentioned at the beginning of my reply, due to the limited financial framework of the Agency, the third-class road cannot be included in the Agency's design and repair programme for 2017. They will be given the opportunity, of course, within the budgetary procedure this year and will be looking for options for its resource provision for the next calendar year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u171	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Baychev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u172	As you said yourself, Mr. Minister, indeed the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency is insufficient, I do not see why we should not support you for an increase. Of course, first you will have to ask for it in the Council of Ministers. I mean, you should do your job first, and we and I, as a Member of the National Assembly, would love to support you. I would like to tell you that this is not the answer that the residents of the two municipalities expect, because the road really needs renovation and it is the Council of Ministers and in particular you must satisfy the public needs of the population and business. I don't see the point, I don't see the excuse, it's your job, you just have to do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u173	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Mr. Minister, for the coat? I won't. We'll continue with the next question. He is once again from the National Representative Mr. Baychev about repairing the road Karnobat. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, fellow MPs! I will again bother you with a road that is between two neighbouring municipalities Karnobat and the municipality of Sredets. This is the shortest route between the two municipal centers. At present, it is in a very bad state.. citizens and companies avoid traveling on it. For this purpose, it is passed through Burgas, which increases the road by about 70 km, thus wasting time, taking a walk and so on. In the talks we have had with the citizens of the municipalities and especially with the farmers, there is a problem that it is farmers who protest especially for this time, because companies buying milk refuse to buy it out because access is very bad for the farm concerned. This makes it harder for business and the respective locality to become more and more depopulated, as the few people who are at work are leaving it. It's been an old principle since Roman times where there's a road and water to have a place. I think with the renovation of the road you, besides the road, will be able to help the business, and I would say to the social sphere. In the field of defence, you would also intervene, as you would stop the depopulation of this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u175	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. For your answer, Mr. Minister, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u176	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Baychev! The transport link between Karnobat and the municipality of Sredets takes place on safe road 3795, Bolyarovo, Sredets, Draka, Malina, Zitosvet, Dragantsi, Karnobat and the second-class road II-53, the border district of Yambol, Sredets. For the maintenance of the Road Infrastructure Agency the necessary care is taken, albeit insufficient on the basis of the financial resources available under the Programme ongoing repair and maintenance. In 2015 and 2016 the second-class road 3795 was renovated, including asphalt works, landscape shaping of a total value of almost 100 thousand. lv. with VAT. This year Earth works, asphalt and landscape formation of 60 thousand have been completed so far. lv. with VAT, and in August, an additional landscape formation of the road will be carried out. On the second-class road II-53 under an ongoing reform and maintenance programme in 2015 and 2016 repairs were carried out, including drainage events, asphalt works and landscape shaping of a total value of 76 thousand. BGN 599. Land works, asphalt works, landscape formation of 76 thousand were carried out this year. BGN 148. To improve the technical operational state of road III-795 from km 22+600 to km 32+625, almost 10 km, slightly more, rehabilitation and reconstruction is necessary and from km 32+625 to km 54+800 preventive repair and rehabilitation is necessary. And for the second-class road II-53 from km 184+800 per km 214+779, rehabilitation and reconstruction must be carried out. Due to the limited financial framework at the moment, the Road Infrastructure Agency does not have the necessary funds for these repair activities. Nevertheless, given the importance of the roads for normal communication of the citizens of Karnobat and Sredets municipalities, we will continue to look for opportunities to provide funding by including priority on the second-class road and prioritization according to the second-class course II-53, then the third-class road Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u177	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Baychev, a line? You don't. Let's move on to the next question. He is one of the MPs Ilian Timchev and Atanas Kostadinov regarding the contamination of drinking water with arsenic in three small settlements in Montana region, Boychinov municipality. Here you go, Mr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I will introduce you to a problem that affects about 2,000 inhabitants of three small towns in Boychinovtsi municipality, Montana region. It's about this. With MP Atanas Kostadinov on July 10, 2017 we visited Boychinovtsi municipality on our reception day. There we found out from worried people, from the residents of the municipality and from the mayor of the municipality himself that from a week to the inhabitants of three small settlements there is provided water for drinking with water, one for each of the settlements. The reason is the increased amount of arsenic found in the water. According to RZI, Montana's arsenic content is between 12 mg/l and 10 mg/l. The water supply for all three villages is from a dam near the village of Kobiljak. Our questions to you are as follows: When are the higher levels of arsenic recorded in drinking water? What actions have been taken by local institutions? Is there an established reason for water pollution with arsenic, and what measures will your ministry take to deal with the problem quickly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u179	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. For an answer, Mr. Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Timchev, Ordinance No 9 of 16 March 2011 lays down the requirements for the quality of water intended for drinking-bit needs, such as the authorities of the State Health Control and Regional Health Inspections, verified by continuous and periodic monitoring the compliance of drinking water submitted to consumers by quality indicators meeting the requirements of the said Ordinance. The increased content of arsenic in the drinking water on the territory served by the city of Montana was obtained by the Regional Health Inspectorate in the analysis of water samples taken on 19 April 2017 by the water supply system of the village of Kobiljak. A concentration of 11 micrograms per litre has been established at a limit of 10, you mentioned, micrograms per litre. On 27 April 2017, in relation to these findings, the Regional Health Inspectorate sent to the city of Montana, a prescription for carrying out mandatory hygiene and anti-epidemic measures, which includes: cleaning, disinfection of the water and water supply networks of the three villages quoted by you: Kobiljak, Beli Breg and Gromshin; carrying out weekly monitoring of water from the central water supply network of the three settlements; sending the requested information to the Regional Health Inspectorate In accordance with the provisions, the company performs external and internal disinfection of the water supply network and initiates regular monitoring of drinking water in the three settlements in the technical area of Boychinovtsi. Upon receipt of monitoring data, the Regional Health Inspectorate shall issue new prescriptions which include the following activities: limiting the use of drinking water by the population of the three villages for drinking and food preparation. In second place, it organised the supply and supply of drinking water with water, and in third place a study to determine the reasons for the increased arsenic values in drinking water. The operating water company carries out activities according to the regulations, notifying the mayor of Boychinovtsi municipality, the mayors of the villages Kobiljak, Beli Breg and Gromshin and ordering public disclosure of the necessary restrictions in the use of water for drinking-bit needs, provides, you yourself mentioned, watermelons with a certain regime and route in the areas affected by the restriction. In relation to the provisions for investigating the reason for the pollution, the Head of the Department of Water Supply, Sewerage and Water Treatment at the University of Architecture, Construction and Geodesy and the Director of the Geological Institute of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences are asked to prepare on purpose a special expert opinion on the issue. To date, representatives of these institutions have visited the affected areas, made the necessary inquiries, got acquainted with the analyses of the water samples taken and are in the process of drawing up an opinion. The results of the investigations will be provided to the interested parties and made public under the Bulgarian legislation. Depending on the opinion I mentioned to the experts, appropriate measures and actions will be taken to deal with the problem, we can comment on in the duplicate actions that we could also take on certain personnel changes in the management composition of the company that led to these deviations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u181	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u182	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I can't help but say that once again, the Northwest is facing contempt by the executive. This statement of mine, beyond the provisions of Decree No 9, Decree No 1 and Decree M4, can be shown in particular by the fact that from the 70's of the last century it is known that this water source at Kobilek has been contaminated and no measures have been taken. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 of Ordinance No 9 you correctly noticed and said that water supply organizations are obliged to take all necessary measures to provide quality water. Obviously, I am not aware, but a joint programme must have been developed, along with the RZI authorities, to bring this issue out, and in this regard I have three supplementary questions. How many points are there in relation to this problem, which you and RZI have bet on controlling during the constant monitoring, because they under Regulation No 9 cannot be less than two per settlement? Second question: when did you inform the authorities of State Health Control? Since from the beginning of January, Minister, in the underground waters for which you are not responsible, there is a content of arsenic and within the meaning of art. 10 for the immediate reaction, which introduces Regulation No 9, only the month of July, measures have been taken. If it is true that on 19 April you are familiar with this data. Last but not least, one watershed per day is provided for a settlement at 40 degree temperature. I understand that these are high costs for the water company. Do you, because Kobyljak is the source that is an ascending karst spring, provides between 150 and 500 liters per second, with a huge capacity that is sufficient for the health health and domestic risk at which the population may fall? Finally, I would like to say that there are official data from the Environment Executive Agency for arsenic pollution, but once again, both expert and personnel and institutional, and ultimately valuable, no one has a bearing on important issues for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u183	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Minister, for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kostadinov! Wasn't the procedure about the replica and the back? Because we had supplementary questions, but I think this is a procedure for asking a Member of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u185	We're a douche now.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u186	First to clarify to the 19 you were not aware and there is no way I personally could be familiar with the data, as you quoted in the line. I'm familiar on May 4th, even on May 5th, so forgive me, as soon as I step in as Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Secondly, thank you very much for your reply, as I now realize and appreciate extremely serious shortcomings not by the state at central level, but by the management of the local water company with the principal Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. In this regard, I guarantee that I will make very rapid personnel changes to the management of the Water and Water Department.. Montana, due to failure to comply even with the regulations that you have quoted, actions that have been replaced by the management of a water company. About the need for more watersheds. You're right, the number of watermelons is not enough, but we will solve the matter a little bit more global in the water, with a real focus on the water supply system of the three settlements to solve the problem of arsenic for a long time. Yes, he's not new, as you rightly mentioned. The excesses really aren't large.. 11 milligrams per litre at a rate of 10. Be assured that with a better management of the company we will also have better technical and operational results and will ensure to an even greater extent the health and security of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u187	Thank you, dear Minister. Following are the questions of Mr. Tarnovalyski he will unite them. Question from Georgi Tarnovalyski and Manol Genov on carrying out urgent repair and reconstruction activities of a road facility Mr. Minister, would you mind answering them together? No. The next question is again by Mr. Tarnovalyski and Mr. Genov on carrying out urgent repair and reconstruction activities for road facility Two minutes to unveil the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues! Dear Minister, in order to save time for all colleagues to ask their questions, my two questions concern bridge facilities in the municipality of Parvomay. These are problems that excite those living in the municipality, and not only in this municipality. I have put in my question that this concerns several municipalities as well. Porayna's bridge facility is on a closed road, but it's still being used, and here we're taking the risk of having a crossover problem. According to the administration of the municipality of Parvomay at the beginning of 2017, they have the assurance that repairs to this bridge facility will be carried out. So far there are none, and our question is precisely in this regard: is there a public procurement, who will perform it and when will it start, so that this bridge facility of the village of Porojna can be used and not be more dangerous? The bridge of the village of Gradina, the municipality of Parvomay, with which the municipality of Parvomay contacted several municipalities of Chirpan, Sadovo, Brezovo and, of course, the two highways of Thrace and Maritsa, is very old. A question was asked by Mrs. Pavlova as regional minister as early as 2015. The answer was that there were only funds allocated to repair the bridge so that 12 tonnes could be maintained in passing heavy goods vehicles. Unfortunately, such repairs have not been carried out. Currently on this bridge it is forbidden to move cars over 5 tons, which makes it very difficult for residents and, of course, business in the region. The question is: what will the Ministry do? Is there funds available to build a new bridge facility, as promised by 2015 to repair the existing one, so that it can take up to 12 tonnes? When will the promise be fulfilled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovallisky. For your answer, Mr. Minister, please come in. I'll spend a little more time on both Mr. Turnovalysky and Mr. Minister if they decide to reschedule the time, because there are two questions in one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u190	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Turnovallisky! The bridge facility, which is the subject of your question, the second question is more like $3-667. First of all. It was built in the 1930s. The last significant repair of the facility was carried out in 1992 when the road plate was repaired. In 2015, repair activities were carried out on the floors of the facility worth 41 thousand. lv. At present, however, as a result of intensive traffic, its situation has deteriorated again and falls have been observed. In 2016 the support funds only allowed for patching of compromised sites on the pavement of less than BGN 1000. The existing facility does not have the necessary capacity and this has required a traffic limit to be introduced in April this year, as you yourself mentioned, on the vehicle bridge over 5 points. Given the state of the existing facility and the importance of the destination for travellers in the area and for the local business, a decision has been made to build a new facility, a whole new facility, parallel to the existing one. For the site there is a project readiness and is currently under way a parcel plan for the new site. The plot concerns land estates of the village of Gradina of the town of Parvomay, municipality of Parvomay, agricultural, forest and urbanized areas. There are consensual opinions from the State-owned companies concerned and The parcel plan in the Commission for agricultural land to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is to be introduced as is the procedure for validating a design route in agricultural land. Following the Commission's decision on agricultural land, the project will be presented for consideration and adoption by the National Expert Council for Structure of the Area and Regional Policy to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The site is intended to be included in the program "New constructions" of the Agency "Travel Infrastructure" for 2018. This is how it is presented, by the way, and in the budget forecast, so will be included in the draft budget, which we will draw up for 2018. After carrying out the necessary alienations, we do not have alienations, it is pointless at the moment to bet funds in 2017, nor is it a parcel plan adopted at the expert council. After carrying out the necessary alienations, the Agency will initiate the procedure for selecting a contractor for construction and supervision. The procedure itself, to save time, can be parallel to alienation, as we have done several times back in time. According to an expert assessment, the indicative value of the construction works is around 5 million. lv. Indeed indicative value, as it will become clear after a construction permit is issued on the basis of the investment project. Until the construction of a new facility, according to the budget funds, the Road Infrastructure Agency will take the necessary care to secure the movement along the existing bridge. A few words about the other bridge. The bridge facility, which is the subject of your other question, is located on the Republican road III-5802. Given the compromised condition of the existing bridge, a decision has been made to build a new facility. Here we are much more advanced in time with procedures and on alienation, and on design, and on the approval of detailed land plot plans. Following the construction of the new facility because of what I mentioned, we are much more advanced with the project readiness, are provided for the budget of the API's new construction programme for 2017, the value of the construction and repair activities is more than 1 million. lv. with VAT, and for the construction supervision "48 thousand." BGN, excluding VAT. The tender procedures have been carried out under the Public Procurement Act for selection of contractor, construction and supervision and the contracts with them have been signed. We foresee that the site will be completed within the calendar year and that we will absorb all of the resources laid down in the budget year 2017 with the construction of a new bridge over the Chinar dere River. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u191	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Turnervalian for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u192	Dear Minister! The answer you gave for the road and for the bridge of the village of Poriojna will be completed by the end of 2017 and the bridge will function, will calm the inhabitants and this is good news for which I thank you. I'm counting on this to really happen, and we'll be following him, of course, and the residents of the municipality. Regarding the bridge of the village of Gradina. I am not satisfied with your answer because funds are clearly available for 2018. It is not clear whether this will happen before the procedures for 2018. And serious repairs, as far as I understand it, of this bridge facility are not foreseen. We see that in 2015, despite the serious funds invested, this bridge facility and the repair was either not quality or not well planned, again it cannot take over traffic of cars over 12 tonnes, but is reduced to no more than 5 tonnes, which is a problem. You said it and I didn't understand, it's being repaired, but will this repair allow you to move through the bridge facility vehicles over 5 tonnes, at least up to 12 such ones? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u193	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovallisky. For the coat, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u194	Dear Mr. Turnovalliski, yes, in 2017 we will complete the first bridge facility, as you mentioned. I also want to be controlled and followed. So, we'd be happy to go to an inspection together on how construction and repair activities are going to build a new bridge. Regarding the first part of the question about the bridge over the Garden, I was obviously not well understood. I mentioned very precisely, I am convinced, we will also see the shorthand that it is not about the reconstruction of a non-existent bridge facility, what is currently closed to motor vehicles over 5 tonnes, but about the construction of a road with a variant of a new bridge facility. The problem in this case is that back in time they have locked up the very discharge procedures, mostly, of the agricultural and forestry fund. Currently, on the basis of the PSU, a parcel plan stood to be submitted to the Commission on agricultural land. I mentioned, after her decision, we will proceed with the issue of a construction permit, the examination, of course, of a draft of the National Expert Council on a structure on the territory, issuing a building permit. Parallel to save time, to be calm, as well as to calm the residents of the area, will be followed by the tender procedure for selecting a contractor, for issuing the building permit and estrangement procedures. Since we are also at ground zero, we do not have alienation procedures, so that in 2017 we could not actually benefit from it. The existing bridge will not be reconstructed, will be built in 2018, I repeat, a new bridge facility with the path of the option alternative to the current one, parallel to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u195	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Bogdan Botsev on the suspension of the procedure for coordination and implementation of the hydroknob of Breznitsa, Gotse Delchev municipality, Blagoevgrad district. Here you go, Mr. Botsev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question is about the suspension of the procedure for coordination and implementation of the Hydroknob in Gotse Delchev municipality, Blagoevgrad district. The modern development of the town of Gotse Delchev and the whole region, including the other three municipalities: Hadjidimovo, Garmen and Satovcha, requires special attention to the available water resources and their rational and eco-friendly use. In this connection, a research and design work was started in 2004 on the preparation of a Project for the construction of the Hydro Knot of Breznitsa (Baznitsa) in the land of the village of Breznitsa, Gotse Delchev municipality. In 2004 and 2005. The Ministry of Environment and Water (MoEW) and the Ministry of Agriculture, together with the municipality of Gotse Delchev, carried out technical and economic studies and concerted studies with the Ministry of Environment and Water (MoEW) and the Ministry of Agriculture for the possibility to build the complex dam of Bznitsa for the need for water supply and irrigation in the region. The main purpose of the hydropower is to ensure lasting, for many years ahead, drinking water first category for the region, to also provide water for irrigation of the areas of the watering systems. The average annual water shortages in the region amounted to 3.2 million. Cube. meters. The construction of the dam guarantees a volume of 8 million. Cube. meters that will provide the necessary quantities for the future for both drinking water and water. In addition, with the realization of the dam, it will allow for the construction of 4 hydropower plants with total power 12 megawatts. With the construction of the site will open about 30 temporary jobs in the construction of the dam, in no less than 2 years and 10 permanent jobs. At the end of 2005, in relation to the lands under Art. 19 which fall within the project area, further work on its realization was suspended. At present, this problem does not exist. My question, Mr. Minister, to you is: what are the views of the Ministry for the future realization of the Hydroknob Breznitsa and within what deadlines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u197	Thank you, dear Mr. Botsev. For a response the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Botsev, our views on the area have always been quite positive in his previous and current leadership. Special greetings to Mayor Moskov. What we have always helped him, we will also help him in the future. I will now also present the answer to the specific question. The main objective in front of the water supply sector, you know, is to achieve quality of water services, in accordance with the requirements of European legislation at socially bearable prices................................................................................. A top priority in implementation is to maintain a generally available quality water supply by ensuring continuity of water supply with the required quantity and quality of drinking water. The Project on 21 November 2012 of the National Strategy for Water Sector Management and Development was conducted a study on the need to build new dams to meet drinking water needs. An analysis of water consumption, water supply infrastructure and future water needs for drinking domestic water supply in Bulgaria for the period 2013 - 2037 is presented, which is compared with the total certified volume of personal dams. It is registered that in the country there is a high coverage of built dams, but also a shortage of water in some territories, which leads to seasonal or year-round water supply regimes. For the sustainable overcoming of water shortages, given climate change, it also defines the need to build dams. You know, at the moment, after more than 25 years, two entirely new dams are being built, for drinking domestic supply supplied by Plovdivtsi Dam, in the Rudozem region and the Luda Yana Dam in the area of Panagyurishte, under a project funded by the World Bank. As far as the Hydroknob is concerned, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has, unfortunately, no documentation regarding the design and construction of the complex dam. I will ask you, if you have one, the local government, the administration of Blagoevgrad does not have one either. We've contacted him to be provided. According to data from the National Statistical Institute as of 2011, at the time of the last census, the population of Gotse Delchev municipality is 32 169 inhabitants, in the municipality of Garmen However, there is no information in the Ministry about water shortages for drinking domestic water supply and imposed regimes in the above mentioned municipalities, which is why there has been no study on the possibilities for the construction of new water sources, including dams, excluded the municipal center of the municipality of Garmen, namely the village of Garmen, there are problems there. We can also debate in a timely meeting, in the back, what is the problem with the water supply of the municipal center of the municipality of Garmen. Before proceeding to the construction of a complex dam, Breznitsa. Besides that it is necessary to develop a study to seek appropriate easterly funding and hydrotechnical site to be valued and to assess its financial and economic and, of course, social logic, a reasoned justification should be made regarding the effectiveness and future return on the investment invested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u199	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Botsev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u200	Thank you, dear Minister, for your reply. I'll give my regards to Mr. Moskov. Thanks also for the invitation to a meeting, I hope we will make it happen soon and I also hope that in the face of both your Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Environment and Water, together with the efforts of Gotse Delchev Municipality and our neighbouring municipalities, we will be able to implement the Dam Project in the village of Breznitsa because it is really important for our region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u201	Thank you, dear Mr. Botsev. Mr. Secretary, there'll be no duvet? We move on to the next question before last for Minister Nankov. Question from Lyubomir Bonev on the financing of renovation activities from the budget of the Agency Road Infrastructure.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u202	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For the site highway "Lyulin" (Sofia ring road, road hub "Daskalovo" from kilometre 0 to kilometre 19) was granted permission to use No CT 05 491 from 2011 to DNCC, on the basis of the relevant provisions in ZUT and on the basis of Protocol, Model 16 of 2011 establishing the suitability for use of the construction, drawn up by the State Admission Commission appointed by the Order of the Deputy Head of DNCK. In the period 2012 to April 2017, the sums paid under contracts for the maintenance of the motorway, Lüline, amounted to 8 million. 115,000. BGN 317. with VAT, of which for facilities, and 339 thousand. BGN 352. the financing of the renovation actions of the Agency's budget. Repair of equipment includes: repair of asphalt, drainage, repair and maintenance of tunnels. Mr. Minister, according to Ordinance No 2 of 31 July 2003 on the commissioning of construction works in the Republic of Bulgaria and the minimum warranty periods for the completed construction works issued by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the warranty periods are determined by a contract between the contracting authority and the contractor for the relevant types of work. For facilities, for motorways, roads and streets, in new construction they are ten years, and in the case of major renovation and rehabilitation four. In this regard, my question to you is: on what basis are payments made with funds from the Agency's budget on what grounds for the repairs of the facilities of the highway.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u203	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Mr. Secretary for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u204	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Bonev! Between the European Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria was signed Financial Memorandum and ISPA Measure No 2001/BG/R/RT/004, which ensured co-financing of the project of construction of the highway..Lulin, Sofia ring road, road hub................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... National ISPA coordinator is the Ministry of Finance. In the provisions of art. 8, special conditions relating to the measure t. 4b, the sub-resources of the beneficiary, covering a 10-year period from the year of completion and corresponding to all relevant standards, including those of Council of Europe Directive 96/53, are envisaged to be submitted by the Financial Memorandum. For the site "Sofia Ring Road, Daskalovo Road from km 0 to km 19 + 135 has been granted permission to use with number CT-05-491 from 13 May 2011. The site includes a significant number of open-air facilities with a total length of 1224 m of bridge facilities; three of the road units are a road hub "Sofia Ring Road," road hub "Malo Buchino" and road hub "Daskalovo." In accordance with art. 8, p. 4b in the Financial Memorandum, the Road Infrastructure Agency has prepared a programme for the repair and maintenance of the motorway for the period 2011/2021. The activities provided comply with the requirements of the National Regulatory Base and the existing technical rules and norms, as well as with the standards of Council of Europe Directive 96/53. Maintenance activities include ongoing maintenance; winter maintenance; emergency repair; post-trail cleaning; recovery of steel safety fences; restoration of vertical alarm and horizontal marking; activities, improvements and other activities aimed at ensuring the normal operation of the motorway. The Road Infrastructure Agency is starting to implement its programme for repair and maintenance of the highway from the moment of completion of the site and issuing the permission for use, which I quoted just now. The financial provision of ongoing repairs and maintenance activities....................................................................................................... In addition, we inform you that the contract for the construction of the highway is concluded with the Association of Mapa Cengiz. The term of the contract is 53 months - 36 months construction, 12 months period for reporting defects. The Treaty and the Rules of FIDIK "The International Organisation of Consultant Engineers, which introduces standards and defines the agreed conditions of construction applicable to construction and engineering works. During the implementation of which two adenwords were signed, according to which the deadline for completion of the construction works was extended until 15 May 2011. It is important to note that the repairs of the facilities of the motorway "Lyulin" after the granting of a permit for use of the site were carried out due to events of a service nature. All identified defects within the warranty period related to the construction of the motorway have been removed at the expense of the contractor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u205	Thank you, Dear Minister. Come in for a cue, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, we are both aware that the contracts for construction of the motorway of Lyulin........................ do not cancel the Bulgarian legislation........................................................... My question to you was: why facilities that are in guarantee terms, their repairs are being paid, I travel along this route every day, including at the moment are being paid by the budget, and the same are guarantee. That's my question. Isn't it most normal to require the builder company to remove all the faults on the highway, which are many, including the current landslide.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u207	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u208	Dear Chairman, dear Mr. Bonev! I'll say it again. The activities under Council of Europe Directive 96/53, in full compliance with it, with its operational legislation, I will generally say current repairs and maintenance, which include a number of activities that are active maintenance; winter maintenance; repair of recovery works in emergency situations, including landslides in emergencies, I mentioned; cleaning after accidents; recovery of steel, safety fences; restoration of vertical signalling, horizontal marking, are at the expense of the budget of the Agency, road infrastructure and not only under the current contract, but in all other contracts. Except for them, the warranty periods that you mentioned are indeed set to the maximum extent and, of course, are fulfilled when quality defects have been identified and all the actions to remedy these defects have been at the expense of the contractor under the contract and, of course, in compliance with the regulations and the distributor in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u209	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the final question to Minister Nankov. The question is from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov on the completion of the Republican road I-7 Vrbishki Pass. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u210	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The present question, Mr. Nankov, is dictated by several circumstances. First of all, you know that the Republican road I-7 in this part of it is the most direct route between northern and southern Bulgaria. Just to remind you and you know, perhaps, in your presentation you will say that in 2014/2015 this time in his section Shumen "Veliki Preslav" was rehabilitated. A serious amount was invested and, respectively, not only myself, but also the residents of the municipality of Varbitsa, but also those who are travelling towards North-South Bulgaria, are interested whether this time will ever be completed, whether it is part of the plans of the Ministry of Regional Development and in particular the Road Infrastructure Agency, which performs these construction and repair activities. To answer whether for this year, whether for the next year or at all: whether it is part of the plans of your office, this route to be completed, to be put into service so that the traffic that passes through Rishki Pass can be eased and that both passes can be used accordingly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u211	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Secretary for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u212	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ivanov. The question is whether it's the most direct link. According to some experts it is the Dyulin Pass, but surely the most direct link between North and South Bulgaria will be the tunnel under Shipka. Just one note to say that I did not speak on my own initiative then on holiday, I was simply answering a parliamentary question about other speeches by your fellow parties. About the Verb Pass. In the period 2013/2016, in Lot 4 and Lot 5 of the project Transit roads and roads, have performed rehabilitation of sections of total length of 173,7 km from road I-7 Silistra-Shumen-Yambol on the territory of Northern Bulgaria as follows: from km 0-180 from the town of Silistra to km 108-540 connection with the road I-2 Ruse-Varna, and from km 115 to the road I-2 Ruse-Varna to km 180+232 to the end of the road built after the village of Varbitsa. Rehabilitation ensures a lasting improvement in road performance as well as safe driving conditions. The stretch to the Verbishka Pass, which is old and not repaired, is between km 180+232 on route I-7, approximately after Varbitsa and the intersection of the first-class road with road II-48 Omurtag-Cotel to the Mokrenska Pass. The gauge and technical elements of that section do not comply with the first-class regulatory requirements, the gauge and the elements of that section. In order to bring road I-7 into line with the norms, a change and shift of the existing route along a new trail will be required, from which it follows that, in addition to the development of an investment project in phase-based, technically, environmental impact assessment procedures will have to be carried out, important changes to this connection are to be expected. God willing, let them pass! And assessment of compatibility. Taking into account the passage through a protected zone of There are procedures for the development of a plot of land and the acquisition of land for state need, i.e. alienation procedures. It is necessary to comply with the requirements of the Cultural Heritage Act for carrying out preliminary archaeological studies. All these activities are related to the provision of significant financial resources and the corresponding planning of the site in the Investment Programme of the Road Infrastructure Agency. At this stage, the repair and reconstruction of a Republican road node in its part of Varbyska Pass are not foreseen for implementation within the framework of the 2017 Budget. As I also mentioned under current repairs and maintenance, this activity is impossible. I mentioned the reasons. The road gauge and technical elements do not meet the regulatory requirements and what procedures we need to carry out in order to ensure design readiness as well. Only after this stage, after these actions will the subject of providing financial resources for the construction itself be affected. In this region, other Republican roads pass, of course, which provide a link at the locality to the northern and southern part of the country. All year open are the Rishka Pass, you know, road 273 Shumen-Smaadovo, as well as the Kotel Pass 248 Omurtag-Kotel, which provide comfortable and safe under current travel conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u213	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Ivanov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u214	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Yes, of course, the so described state of the Varby Pass, allows its use, and will most likely have to redesign and hang its route. Are we, rather, really interested, in the plans of your office, at least some time to determine, by the end of the term of office, next year, whether these design procedures will begin, respectively, the alienation procedures and the start of the construction? Not once, not twice has this topic been discussed, including at forums that have been initiated by the business, and it has been expressed their desire, this time to be put into service, and therefore to be able to enjoy it in order to facilitate trade routes. In addition to what I have said, and I hope that we will hear from you again here some time, because I soon had the reception in this area and I have been informed by the local residents that there are still unfinished elements of this renovation that have been carried out in the period 2013 - 2016. I will ask you to undertake as a commitment to do an on-site inspection, and if there are indeed unfinished elements of this time, I am talking at the end of it about prop walls, about pavements and so on, to carry out these construction works in a timely manner, because of the local residents' statements, it has become clear that they pose a risk to life, including the passage of small children. I hope that soon we will hear from you, including from this tribune, that this thing will be done and that you will give us good news to complete this road.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u215	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Minister Nankov for the duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u216	Thank you, Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I appreciate the fact that you understand what the procedural need is and what steps should be taken, so I take the commitment, and because of the fact that, firstly, it is extremely important, as one of the fast and direct links between North and South Bulgaria. You mentioned not only business but also, of course, in order to improve security and safety of passage. Already in 2018, we will start with the preparation of the idea project, and in parallel the EIA procedure. After, of course, the idea project came up with an option for the route. In 2018, we start with technical preparation for bringing the Varby Pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u217	Thank you, dear Minister, for your reply and for your participation in today's parliamentary control. Message: On 21 July 2017, the National Assembly received a request from the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, with an introduction. No 727-00-12 in order to allow for the arousal of criminal prosecution against the MP Zhivko Martinov, according to the file No 10019/2017, according to the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office for crimes committed under Articles 143, para. 1 in relation to art. 18, para. 1 of the Penal Code, Art. 213a, para. 3, p. 2 in relation to para. 1 of the Penal Code, Art. 213a, para. 3, p. 2 in relation to para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 26, para. 1 of the Penal Code, Art. 269, para. 1 in relation to art. 26, para. 1 of the Penal Code and Art. 294, para. 1 in relation to art. 18, para. 1 in relation to art. 26, para. 1 of the Penal Code. By letter dated 21 July 2017, the President of the National Assembly informed the National Assembly of the request and the opportunity to get acquainted with it and the attached materials. With an application from the same day, the People's Representative Zhivko Martinov informed the President of the National Assembly that he agreed to arouse prosecution at the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. By letter, the President of the National Assembly has notified the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of the written consent given by the National Assembly to arouse criminal prosecution on the request by applying a certified copy of the application. We continue with questions to Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, which will answer, firstly, a question from the National Representative Veska Nencheva, concerning information about irregularities in the Center for Family Type Accommodation for Children and Youth in Karlovo. You have the floor, dear Ms. Nencheva. Dear colleagues, Minister Petkov will answer all questions addressed to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u218	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs! A few weeks ago, information was published on abuse and irregularities at the Family Type Accommodation Centre for Children Commented case became a cause for tension in the center. The communication atmosphere has created stress among both children and workers there and has an impact on the normal psychoclimate in the center. At present, the social services regulations are contained in the Child Protection Act and its Implementing Rules. The Regulation on criteria and standards for social services for children as well as other regulations laying down the order for the provision of social services. The organisation of activities in services, the way of funding, as well as compliance with certain criteria and standards for providing them. There is no precise and specific framework for the interaction of institutions and the responsibilities of each of them. Depending on the specific situation and the emergency situation, assistance is sought from the regional police management, emergency medical care, the local Commission for combating anti-social acts of minors, as well as schools. Children are placed in the centers, but parental rights are reserved for parents. Very often parents cannot be found or refuse to cooperate, and the employees of the Resisting Service are only carers and have limited powers. The specific case gives me reason to ask the questions: does the information released in social networks answer the truth? Has the case been checked by the competent institutions? How many centers in the country are there, and how do you ensure the care for the lives and health of the children and youngsters placed in the country?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u219	Thank you, dear Ms. Nencheva. Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u220	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs Nencheva! The Family Type Accommodation Centre is a place for living in an environment close to the family, with the aim of providing individualized care and support for personal development and social inclusion in the lives of the community. As of 31 May 2017 there are 285 children's centers in Bulgaria, with a capacity of 3605 seats. In order to ensure the quality of care, you have adopted a Regulation on criteria and standards for social services for children, where the standards defining quality requirements and performance indicators are regulated. The Social Services Center for Family Type Accommodation for Children and Young People with No Disabilities is revealed on 29 May 2012 and has a capacity of 15 seats. On 23 October 2013, the municipality of Karlovo provided the management of the social service, according to the Regulation of art. 18a, para. 3 of the Social Assistance Act of the company "Sonik Start" Ltd. "Sofia." At the Center in the town of Karlovo, a team currently working, including a supervisor, senior social worker, educator and five educators. The children currently accommodated are 13 in number, between the ages of 7 and 17. On 18 June 2017, an oral signal was received in the Department of Child Protection at the Department of Social Assistance (S &amp; D).........................)....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Talks were made with the two children, found that there was a conflict between them. During the incident attended the attending tutor and other children from the Center. In this regard, on the very next day, a meeting was held on a coordination mechanism for interaction at work in the case of children who are victims of violence or at risk of violence and interaction in crisis intervention, where representatives of the Directorate of Social Assistance took part, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, a representative of the municipality of Karlovo and heads of the social service. On 20 June 2017, information was received on another conflict between two other girls at the age of 13 and 15 who were sisters. The provocation was caused by a conversation between one of the girls and a journalist from print media, in the words of the girl who took place outside the social service, without the knowledge of the head of the Center. The Social Assistance Directorate has again made an immediate visit to the social service and has had a conversation with some of the children. A new multidisciplinary meeting was organised on 21 June 2017 in order to draw up an interinstitutional action plan guaranteeing the rights and security of children accommodated. A check has been carried out by the State Agency for the Protection of the Child, in which deficiencies related to the management of the aggressive behavior of the accommodated children, compliance with the rules and discipline, in view of which managers of the Centre are given a mandatory prescription for overcoming the gaps and recommendations for guaranteeing the rights of the accommodated children and improving the interinstitutional interaction. There is also a question on this issue from another Member of the National Assembly, so with its reply I will continue and provide additional information if, of course, this does not satisfy, but the aim was to respond precisely to the question you have asked. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u221	Thank you, dear Minister. Ms. Nencheva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u222	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! It has shown that from 285 centers, which operate at this time and the more than three thousand children and young people in them, the case of the Center in the town of Karlovo is indicative of what is happening as an activity in these centres. The report provided to us by the State Agency for Child Protection shows that from the survey that was conducted, among the eleven children accommodated at the Center, the conclusion is that they are not feeling well, sad and unhappy, and employees define the atmosphere at the Centre as tense. Let this private case be a summary of the activities in the other centres, so that this is not another report and case that will fade into the media stream and information, because both children and workers at the Centre deserve a decent and peaceful way of life. And our attitude towards children is, in fact, an attitude of our entire community, and this shows the degree of civilization of the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u223	Thank you, dear Mr. Nencheva. For the back, Mr. Secretary? I won't. We continue with the next question to Minister Petkov. He is from the National Representative Ivelina Vassileva, Dimitar Petrov Boychev and Diana Savateva regarding physical aggression against an employee of the Agency for Social Assistance in Burgas. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u224	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Recently, there have been a series of cases of assault on people whose profession and mission is to take care of others. Explainably, this provokes a serious reaction to outrage and condemnation by society. This is a serious and painful topic, which unfortunately in this case also concerns an employee of the Agency for Social Assistance in the city of Burgas, an agency which is dedicated to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. On 25 May 2017, a social worker was attacked during work at the Office of the Agency for Social Assistance in the Burgas District. The incident occurred during the day, the perpetrator was the mother of six children living in the area. Aggression is due to a single aid of 250 BGN. for a first-grader who she had to return to the state because the child didn't go to school regularly. The assaulted employee has over 13 years internship in the social assistance system, she has been subjected to aggression. She received blows to the head and body. The medical certificate shows that the woman has and is dislocated. The municipal councilors from Burgas also expressed concern about this issue, which adopted a declaration condemning the incident. The fact is that the employees of the Agency for Social Assistance in the Burgas quarter of Bulgaria are working under stress from physical strife, scandals and threats are daily in their working process. At the same time, society requires these employees to do their duties conscientiously and to exercise strict control in the field of social assistance. Every form of violence is reprehensible. We therefore express our concern and, in this regard, we believe that measures need to be taken to improve the working conditions of the employees, with their safety being ensured before all. Therefore, our question to you, Minister, is: what measures are being taken or are to be taken to ensure safety during the work of the employees of the Agency for Social Assistance in the Burgas quarter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u225	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u226	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Vasileva! Indeed, it is very rare in their work that employees in the territorial units of the Agency for Social Assistance are subjected to aggression by citizens, and in not a small number of cases there is a need to seek assistance from law enforcement authorities, both in dealing with the critical situation and in protecting the health and life of workers. The most common are the cases in the work of the Departments "Protection of the Child" when a protection measure under the Child Protection Act is taken against children and necessary removal from the biological family. There have been cases of assault with a cold and firearm. In some cases pre-trial proceedings have been initiated, in others measures have been taken under the Ministry of Interior Act. Over the years, a change in the Penal Code has been initiated several times in order to criminalise the attack on social workers during and during the performance of their duties, but since the texts of art. Art. 116, Art. 131 of the Code refers to the persons in charge, as well as those working in the Agency, the explicit inclusion of social workers in the cited provisions has not been undertaken. In relation to the specific case of an attack on a social worker in Burgas on 25 May 2017, all responsible officials took the necessary action to address the situation. The social worker was given the necessary support by the colleagues, the management of the Directorate of Social Assistance and the Regional Directorate of Social Assistance. Despite her psychological trauma, she's been back to work for three weeks. From this high tribune, I would like to thank my colleague, as well as all other staff from the Agency for Social Assistance for the honorable and professional work. On 9 June 2017, a meeting was held at the police station in the district of Plovdiv at the request of the Social Assistance Directorate. The leaders of the Roma community from the neighborhood attended the first regional government of the Ministry of Interior. On 15 June an employee was appointed to ensure the security of social workers in the reception hall of the Directorate in Sq. On the days when they are there on schedule, their transportation to and from the Bureau in a service car is ensured. Meanwhile, the municipality of Burgas has carried out an urgent renovation of the premises, creating very good working conditions for the employees. On 21 June 2017 at the initiative of the mayor of Burgas municipality was held a meeting at the Directorate of Social Assistance "Society" Burgas, together with the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior "Burgas," and the entire team of the Directorate. An agreement has been reached for a joint visit to addresses of social workers and police officers in cases where the possibility of creating a conflict situation is identified or areas with compact Roma population are visited. On June 30, a new meeting was held in the Directorate of Social Assistance and Burgas, attended by the heads of the regional government of the Ministry of Interior on the territory of Burgas, directors and heads of departments in the Directorate and the Chairman of the local trade union structure of the Ministry of Interior. A decision has been made to provide a representative of the Ministry of Interior when visiting the social workers in the districts with predominantly Roma population, and for this purpose the director of the Directorate will state the need in advance. Finally, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is directly involved with the security issues of the employees of the Agency for Social Assistance and will continue to work towards improving it in compliance with the legal provisions and within the limits of the state budget's ability to cover the additional costs necessary for this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u227	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mrs. Sawateva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u228	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! Thanks for the answer, I'm impressed, frankly I didn't expect you to list six measures that were taken after this unpleasant incident that happened at the end of May. Maybe that's why you're going to say: the case is over, and what's the point of talking about it now? In fact, it is not exactly because the case has gone away perhaps from the point of view of the media interest, but it has not gone away from the point of view of the woman who has suffered as well as of her colleagues. Moreover, this is not about a single incident, it is about a trend. I do not mean Burgas, and I mean at all the work of social workers, the people who, as my colleague Ivelina Vassileva said, are called to help and not to suffer blows for this. It takes very often months, even years, to overcome such a shock, and it is important that this woman is back and working again. I also want to tell you something else, we followed with my colleagues what happened to the other woman with Ivanka Filipova, the 26-year-old Roma woman who allowed herself this rude and arrogant behavior. She was convicted, but in fact administrative punishment was imposed instead of a sentence of 3,000. lv. fine. I will not comment on the verdict, because it does not concern the question, but I will ask a rhetorical question, should penalties be imposed, which are practically not applicable. Let's recall that she actually showed this aggression so she couldn't get out of her pocket and pay 250 leva. I'm asking for the fact that her child doesn't go to school. A change of procedure may and should also be considered in order to collect these amounts due. But as I have seen, the measures that have been taken are quite adequate, although it is more important to remove the reasons that led to this clash between a social worker and a multi-child mother. However, this process is quite long and complex and it is related to the integration problems that we have recently talked about, as well as the mechanism for attracting children to school. Until then, I hope that the measures you have taken do not be campaigning and these meetings, on the one hand, with the Roma leaders, on the other hand with the employees of the Ministry of Interior, will be regular and they will give lasting results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u229	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. Mr. Minister for the doppelganger? I won't. Let's get to the next question. He is from the National Representative Petar Vitanov on the tendency to sharply reduce the number of adoptions. Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u230	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! The modern Bulgarian state has a remarkable but controversial practice of caring for children at risk. The defeats in three wars in the first half of the last century put many Bulgarian children in the category of the risk groups of orphans, refugees, unattended and so on. Despite their difficult economic situation, the state and society have created an exceptional system for their care for perhaps the most modern in Europe. It is enough to look at that orphanages and homes for children deprived of parental care are built in the centers of Bulgarian cities and settlements. After the changes in 1944 another model was required, but there are no carefree and abandoned children. In fact, in both approaches, one of the best decisions for children left without parents was adoption. It most accurately corresponds to the Bulgarian national tradition and the peculiarities of the Bulgarian psyche. Taking into account the shortcomings of the previous model, our country has made great efforts and achieved noticeable results in the deinstitutionalization of children at risk. Therefore, Mr. Minister, my question to you is: what circumstances and causes caused the chronic trend of a sharp decline in the number of adoptions in the last five years from 750 in 2012 to 555 last year? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u231	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u232	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vitanov! Adoption is one of the most important measures to protect the child, which is taken after the opportunities for breeding in the biological family are exhausted and accommodation in a family of relatives and relatives. Adoption is a personal decision of the adoptive candidates. Therefore, one of the criteria in determining suitable adoptive parents is related to the preferences expressed by them. Other guiding principles are the order of the registration of adoptive parents in the register and the circumstances of importance for the child's interest. A significant part of the registered candidates in the register of adopters have specific requirements and preferences for the child they would like to adopt, namely: low age, including good health and lack of family involvement, as well as Bulgarian or mixed origins, but without clear features of Roma ethnicity. The listed requirements of the adoptive parents for the child make it difficult to choose a suitable family for each child entered in the register and are one of the prerequisites for extending the adoption procedure. This is also confirmed by the data concerning the requests for preferences and the data concerning the children entered in the register. According to the Agency for Social Assistance as of 30 June this year out of 2230 children enrolled in the register, there are little more than half of them and only 516 of them are of Bulgarian origin. At the same time, in the same period of a total of 1504 adoptive parents with preference for good health of the child are 1429, with preferences for Bulgarian origin are 639. Another example of adoptive parents' expectations is the data on their age preferences. There are 606 candidate-assisted children up to 2 years of age, registered in the register, with the preferred low age of 0 to 2 years of age, only 235. At the same time, the special measures provided for in the legislation for the adoption of children with a health problem, special needs or over 7 years of age shall be taken. Despite the efforts made by the adoption councils to identify suitable adoptive parents for these children, no significant results shall be taken into account. As I have already noted, the adoption decision depends on the personal conviction of adoptive parents. However, state institutions are obliged to ensure an effective and relaxed procedure. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will therefore continue its efforts to reform national adoption by establishing a National Adoption Council as a national body. The establishment of this Council will speed up the appointment of appropriate adoptive parents for children, as there will be no duplication of activities from different adoption councils currently 28 at the regional level, and selection will be carried out among all appropriate adoptive parents and not only among those entered in a regional register. At the same time, changes in the legal framework will also increase the opportunities for supporting candidate adopters, adopters and children before, during and after adoption, ensuring easier access to information, training, social services and others. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u233	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Vitanov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u234	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, frankly, I do not accept your answer as satisfying because these requirements for both ethnicity and age have been constant over the past 20 years. They haven't changed a thing. I'm guessing a few years ago the adoptive candidates had similar requirements. However, as this trend is lasting, we should rather look for the reasons for it, and statistics show that the number of abandoned children at birth level is almost the same. You mentioned it between 2,000 and 2,200 people. This indicates that the cause may be in the follow-up care system. In fact, Minister, isn't the number of adopted children reduced because of the many open services? For example, family-type accommodation centres are 285, over 300 are professional foster families. Perhaps turning caring for children into a commercial activity creates the unhealthy interest that children do not find the best and long-term care for them. The adoption is just a number carrying the corresponding budget of the service. After all, we already have a profession. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u235	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u236	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vitanov, I think that the policy regarding children without parents should combine all possible measures in the best way. I have already said in my reply that the best thing for a child is to be in his biological family or to grow up in the family of close relatives to take care of him. With regard to the declining number of adoptions, in the reply, I pointed out that one of the main reasons is the gap, which is becoming more and more important, between expectations, respectively, what adopters say as a preference and the profile of children who are recorded in the register of those who are waiting for adoption. With regard to the assumption made by you that one of the reasons for this trend, respectively, which you mentioned, is the supply of many social services, I could not agree with that. The social services of the type of Family Type Accommodation Center therefore cover children of higher age and they complement all those measures which practically represent the care of the children, which the state, together with the help of foster families, is responsible for those children left without parental care. Once again, I will emphasise what I said in the reply that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has made concrete proposals for changes to the Family Code in the direction in which I presented, that is to change the organisation of the respective adoption work for children, which I hope will soon be examined by the Council of Ministers and presented to your attention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u237	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the last question to Minister Petkov and to today's parliamentary control. He is from the National Representative Mrs. Teodora Halacheva on professional qualification of the employees at the Family Type Accommodation Centre for Children and Young People Without Disabilities. Here you are, Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u238	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A month ago, information was published in the media that rocked the society with content on the lives of children in the Family Type Accommodation Center in Karlovo. I mean the revelations of a girl whose sister lives in that institution. The living conditions described by it bring to the fore shocking irregularities, to which no humane society can remain indifferent and indifferent. Over the years, we are periodically witnessing similar cases. We resent it, we get angry, then we forget it. The fate of the children who are accommodated in these centres is severe enough to be placed, however, in the field of "incidents." From your answer to my previous question on the topic of irregularities in the Center it became clear that the management of the social service was provided to the company "Sonik Start." The Centre is served by a team involving a supervisor, senior social worker, educator and five educators. The quality of the service provided is extremely important for the upbringing of children, their personal development and their social inclusion in the lives of the community. Staff professional qualities are crucial for the quality of the service provided and for the quality of children's lives. This gives me reason to ask: what is the professional qualification of staff working at the Centre? What educational degrees do employees have, and in what specialties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u239	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. For an answer, Minister Petkov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u240	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Halacheva, this is indeed the third question relating to this case that you have presented, the written answer that I have submitted to you and as a continuation of which I understand and accept your question and the answer that I have just stated. What I would like to stress in answer to your question is that, in accordance with current social services legislation since 2003, these are decentralised and managed by the mayors of municipalities in whose territory they are located. The mayor of the municipality is a body of appointment, management and employer of the heads of social services, which are state delegated activities and municipal activities. According to the provisions of art. 18, para. 1 and 2 of the Social Assistance Act, all activities related to the organisation of work in the social service are within the competence of the mayor of the municipality and municipal administration as a social service provider. In relation to the regulation of art. 18, para. 3 of the Social Assistance Act, the mayor of the municipality may, after a competition, entrust the management of the social services to an external provider as is the case with Sonik Start. The criteria and standards for social services for children and the control of their compliance are regulated by the Regulation on criteria and standards for social services for children. Standards and social services for children define quality requirements for the social service. According to the requirements of that Ordinance, the supplier is obliged to conduct careful selection of staff and volunteers working with the children in the resident type service. The supplier shall provide professional and methodological support to staff and the possibility of improving the qualification. The number, experience and qualification of staff should take into account the need to provide quality care for children. From the verification carried out by the State Agency for Child Protection, at the end of June this year at the Family Type Accommodation Centre for Children.. House as at home... the city of Karlovo is evident that 10 states are designated as employees. At the time of the inspection, there are seven employees working there, there are three unoccupied staff members of senior educator, educator and nurse. The head of the Center has acquired higher education, specialty "Economics"; the educator has a higher education, specialty "Bulgarian philology" and the social worker has an acquired specialty "Politology and international relations" as a fellowship; three of the educators have secondary education and one of them has a major education. A review of the employment records found that part of the staff has no long experience in working with children, thus providing training. There's no employee who hasn't gone through introductory training. Additional trainings for working with children are also carried out for which a register is kept. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u241	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mrs. Halacheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u242	Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Over the past 20 years, the Bulgarian state and our society have made great efforts to deinstitutionalise children at risk. Forms of care have been established with them, which take into account their individual needs and create a more favourable environment for their development. However, the provision of services to children at risk to commercial companies means that this service is already becoming a business. This contradicts not only the standards of morality, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but also the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria. The aim of a trading company is, of course, less costs. That is, it is normal to hire people with lower professional qualifications or those who do not have much experience in working with children. However, the aim of the state must be the best possible care for children, especially for our children, for children at risk. Staff professional qualities are crucial to the quality of the services provided, as I mentioned earlier. That's why I'm addressing you. Dear Minister, I ask by changing the regulations to allow people with high professional qualifications in these centres. After all, they take care of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-21.u243	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. Mr. Minister, for the coat? No. This was the last question for Minister Petkov. Let us thank him for his participation in today's parliamentary control. This was also the last question about today's parliamentary control. The next regular plenary session is on Wednesday 26 July 2017 at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
