ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Messages: On 27 April 2017 three requests were received to the National Assembly from the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov. With an inch. No 727-00-2 - to authorise the excitement and continuation of prosecution against the MP Veselin Naydenov Mareshki, No 1126 of 2015 according to the description of the District Court - the city of Varna, for crimes committed under art. 131, para. 1, t. 1 in relation to art. 130, para. 2 of the Penal Code and under art. 213a, para. 3, p. 2 in relation to para. 2, p. 3, proposal two and proposal three, etc. 4 in connection with para. 1 of the Penal Code according to the specific part of the request. The second request with an I.V. No 727-00-3 - to authorise the excitement of criminal prosecution against the MP Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova, No 3433 of 2016 according to the description of the Sofia City Court, Criminal Division, 28th Chamber for committing a crime under art. 220, para. 2 in relation to para. 1 of the Penal Code according to the specific part of the request. The third demand is with vx. No 727-00-4 to authorise the continuation of prosecution against the MP Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev in proceedings No 44 of 2014 of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, proposal No 3507 of 2010 of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office for a committed crime of a general nature, a crime under art. 219, para. 4 in connection with para. 3 in connection with para. 2 of the Penal Code. The letters are dated 27 April 2017. The President of the National Assembly has informed the Members of the requests received and the opportunity to get acquainted with them and the attached materials. By application of 27 April 2017, the MPs Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova and Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev informed the President of the National Assembly that they agreed to arouse prosecution on the requests from the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. By letter, the President of the National Assembly has notified the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of the written consents given by the Members of the National Assembly to arouse prosecution on the requests made, with certified copies of the applications being applied. The request of the Attorney General has been sent to the MPs by their official e-mail. We continue with the next item of the Programme for the week, namely: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR LEARNING THE CASES OF UNPAYED COMPLAINTS. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank all the political forces for supporting precisely the establishment of a Temporary Committee to investigate the cases of unpaid salaries, because it is no secret that in the last year the cases have started to become more frequent. And you know very well what happened in Dupnitsa, Ruse, Dobrich, Smolyan, Vidin. There is a systematic approach that we, as responsible politicians, must break. Thank you for agreeing here at the temple of Bulgarian democracy, to gather the political forces, trade unions, and employers and to find a common consensus and, of course, a lasting solution. Except when wages are not paid, you know that there are incorrect employers' practices, such as providing workers under a mandatory social security threshold, forced overtime, work without a contract. I therefore believe that in this temporary committee of inquiry, which is made up of a monetary principle by all the political forces, we can find a lasting solution so that the people of labour are truly satisfied with our work. That is why we from BSP for Bulgaria propose to set up a Temporary Commission to study the cases of unpaid salaries to collect, summarize and analyze the data on cases of due but unpaid salaries by employers. The Commission shall be set up on a parite principle, consisting of two MPs from each parliamentary group. And, of course, today we must also choose the Commission's leadership and members. We believe that in two months the Commission can really do its job. Again, what Bulgarian citizens expect of us is precisely to break these vicious practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u3	Excuse me, Mr. Stoinev, are you suggesting that the total number be ten?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, two people from each parliamentary group, so ten.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u5	The chairman's in this number?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u6	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u8	We can say the President's name, but in the end...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u9	Then suggest... Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I suggest that we vote first what has been proposed to us, that is, the total number and points first, second and third of the proposal. I will read you the draft decision, as Mr. Stoinev did not: "Project" DECISION on the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the Study of Unpayments Cases The National Assembly, on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It shall establish a Temporary Commission for the study of cases of unpaid salaries. 2. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 of this Regulation. 1 collects, summarises and analyzes data on cases of due but unpaid salaries by employers. 3. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 of this Regulation. 1 shall be established on a parite principle, consisting of two MPs from each parliamentary group. 4. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission, a total of ten members. Let us stop here, and then you will make a proposal from each parliamentary group for a name-calling staff and chairman of the Commission. Please vote. Vote 208 MPs: for 208, against and abstention there is no. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The motion is unanimous. You have the floor of the parliamentary groups for the staff. Here you are, Mr. Velchev, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our proposal for the Temporary Committee for the Study of Unpaid Salaries is for Diana Ivanova Yordanova and Svetlana Angelova Naydenova, offering Diana Yordanova as Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. On behalf of the BSP Parliamentary Group for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The proposal on behalf of the BSP Parliamentary Group for Bulgaria.. colleagues Dragomir Stoynev and Krum Zarkov. We are also making a proposal for the President of the Commission - Dragomir Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. On behalf of the United patriots, come in, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! When I heard the proposals of the previous two political forces, I was very worried about the work that this committee would do.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u15	Are you going to propose a chairman as well?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u16	I'm seriously worried because I see that political figures are being offered. There must be business people here and we, the United Patriots. [[Laughter from BSP for Bulgaria]] We'll save the day.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u17	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u18	I suggest two... Secure order!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u19	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u20	That's why I'm proposing two fine businessmen. First of all, Mr. Pavel Shopov and, second of all, Mr. Alexander Sabanov. [[Laughter from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u21	And the chairman? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u22	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Please order in the court! Please order in the court! Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we offer Dr. Hassan Ademov and Mr. Elhan Kulkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u24	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u25	Wait for all the groups to make proposals. Are you going to make the offer, Mr. Mareshki? You have the floor, dear Mrs. Stefanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We also offer people from the business group, as Mr. Simeonov said. [[Laughter]] Albena Naydenova and Dora Hristova. We do not propose the President of the Commission from the Volya Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Stefanova. Here you are, Mr. Shopov. Are you going to take a stand?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u28	The whole room is laughing. Of course! I'm laughing too. Because I've probably never had a more unfaithful qualification in this life than Mr. Simeonov's. We've known each other for 12 years, but I'm absurd! Other than a lawyer and a politician, that's all I've ever been. Perhaps Mr. Simeonov means that I am a current beekeeper with a million workers. [[Radio, laughter.]] That's about seven or eight hives, which means I'm an employer. [[Laughter]] From this point of view, Mr. Simeonov is right. [[Applause, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u29	An exploiter?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u30	But I must be the worst owner and businessman because I don't pay them at all. [[Loud laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u31	We just didn't know who the mother bee was, but nothing. [[Loud laughter.]] Do you have a statement on the proposed applications? I won't. We are voting first on the staff of the 10 proposed members of the committee. Vote 202 MPs: for 202, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's personal composition has been unanimously adopted. There are two proposals received for the chairman of the committee. By the order of entry, we first vote on the proposal for Diana Yordanova as chairman of the committee. Vote 202 MPs: 118, against 3, abstention 81. We are now voting on the second proposal for President.. The public representative Dragomir Stoynev, his candidacy is from BSP for Bulgaria. [[Reply.]] Nothing, let's vote, see who gets more votes. Isn't that the point? Please vote on BSP's proposal for Bulgaria for President Dragomir Stoinev. They voted 201 MPs: for 89, against 63, abstention 49. President of the Commission will be Diana Yordanova. The proposal is that the term for the work of the committee be 2 months. 5 of the Project Decision. Please vote. Vote 203 MPs: for 202, against none, abstention 1. And the deadline has been accepted. We are now voting on the draft decision in its entirety. 200 MPs voted: 200, no opposition and no abstentions. The decision has been adopted unanimously. Moving on to: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE TERRITORY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, THE RADIO-ACTIVE REASONS, THE REASONS FOR THE HEALTH OF THE CIVILITY. Who will present the Project? People's representative Manol Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I, too, would like to thank not only on behalf of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, as an importer of this Project for the establishment of such a Temporary Commission, but also on behalf of all consumers of drinking water, because what happened a while ago, the tension that escalated in certain settlements for the occurrence of pollution in the water for drinking-bit needs excites all people. Because in the end they are all users of this service. So, Mr. Chairman, let me read the draft decision directly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u33	Yes, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u34	Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking water in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Set up a Temporary Commission to identify potentially dangerous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking water in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens. 2. The Temporary Commission should be aware of the information available on all potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking water, identify the causes of such a threat, as well as the consequences for the health of citizens, in fact and possible. 3. As a result of the work of the Temporary Commission to propose legislative changes, actions and measures to address existing risks and threats to the environment, life and health of Bulgarian citizens. 4. The interim committee shall draw up a report as well as a list of the measures recommended by it. 5. The temporary committee is set up on a parietal principle by two MPs from each parliamentary group. 6. Selects the Management and Composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: Chairman, total of 10 members. 7. The temporary committee shall be set up for a period of three months.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u37	You have the floor for proposals from the GERB Parliamentary Group. Here you are.. the People's Representative Alexander Nenkov. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: "Let's vote. "]] You're right, Mrs. Ninova. Let's vote first on the draft decision to the staff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues,...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u39	Wait with the proposal, Mr. Nenkov. We are voting on the draft decision to point five. Vote 197 MPs: for 196, against 1, no abstentions. The project to point five has been adopted. You have the floor, Mr. Nenkov, for staff and possible chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, my proposal is rather on the deadline for the establishment and work of this Commission. I propose that the deadline be reduced from three months to two months, as I believe that these two months are sufficient for the Commission to get acquainted with the facts, circumstances and to come up with a detailed report in three months. I think that this issue is too important at this time and the longer this Commission lasts, the less people will be aware of the circumstances and the de facto depreciation of its work the more time, the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u41	And you're not going to offer personnel, are you? [[Laughter and lines from GERB.]] This other person, however, had to get out before he did. Let's go, personnel. Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our proposal for this Commission "Stanislav Dechev and Alexander Nenkov."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u43	For members.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u44	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u45	You have the floor, Mr. Boychev.. a proposal from BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman! The proposals of BSP's parliamentary group for Bulgaria are for undisputed professionals in the field of ecology and water.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u47	Here you are, Mr. Simeonov, for a proposal from the group of the United Patriots.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u48	The proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the United patriots is again to save the situation with businessmen Mr. Georgi Kolev and Mr. Yordan Apostolov, proposing that the undisputed erudite Mr. Georgi Kolev be President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u49	You have the floor from the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we offer Dr. Jevdet Chakarov and Mr. Jayhan Ibryamov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u51	Thank you. Mr. Mareshki, please come in from the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Except that we can no longer be called Patriots, that is why we are called parents, but we will no longer be called businessmen. Therefore we will offer intelligence, not businessmen and our proposal is Polina Hristova and Andon Donchev. Thank you. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u53	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Are there any speeches on the composition of the Commission? I won't. Then we vote first the Commission's personnel of 10 people. 200 MPs voted: 200, no opposition and no abstentions. The personal composition has been unanimously adopted. In order to proceed to the vote of the nominated two presidents and start with Mr. Manol Genov. Please vote on Mr. Manol Genov's proposal to be President of the Commission. Vote 197 MPs: 90 against 80, abstention 27. And now we are voting on the proposal for President on behalf of the United Patriarchs (United People's Representative), Erudite, Georgi Kolev. [[Laughter and lines from GERB.]] 200 MPs voted: 107, against 39, abstention 54. Obviously, we will have a President Erudite.. Georgi Kolev is elected President. [[Laughter and lines from GERB.]] We're going to point seven. There's a proposal for a change of deadline. Do you have comments and considerations? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov. The draft decision proposed a period of three months and the national representative Aleksandar Nenkov proposed reducing it to two.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It's not a line. I support what Mr. Nenkov said that we need to take very urgent measures and respond to what is happening in order to send out some signal of peace, security and not to strain the tension that has been created further. However, I would like to say the following: why have we proposed three months? By Decree No 163 of 1992 the uranium mining in Bulgaria was closed. That's over 300 fields right now. Bulgaria is very rich in many but small quantities of deposits of uranium and, honourable colleagues, for nearly 30 years after that investigation, which has been done, of pollution, of terrain, of tamponing, nothing has been done since then. There's obviously some process dynamics. Obviously, water horizons have been touched, from which separate settlements are supplied. Our concern was that in order for the Commission to do its job well, and I thank you once again for this, perhaps the ambitious tasks that we have set for ourselves will take three months. However, you will decide what time it will be. But what Mr. Nenkov said is also true, we need to send out a positive signal as soon as possible about the problem. In conclusion, I would like to say that this Commission does not speculate on the problem of uranium, but rather this is the reason to think about the whole country. We need to re-examine these uranium fields. We will probably prescribe it as measures, let me not predict how the Commission will end. To introduce certain changes that would further protect citizens and, last but not least, to review water permits. And to offer alternative other options for water supply. It's up to you to decide what time you'll be supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Kostadinov! I would like to make a reply with regard to the need for the deadline to be brief. It's important that society knows the truth. It's important in society that people have peace. I don't want to blame anyone in this building, but you can't put certain data into people, you can't create anxiety. For the full investigation, there'll probably be time. However, it is important to know if there is danger, if there is no danger. Having created such a suggestion among the people, this Commission should be able to tell the truth as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u57	Thank you. It could be extended if necessary. If you agree to vote for two months and, if it has to be extended, it is a better signal than three. Here you go. For the second line, the public representative Mr. Mareshki. And third line, Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We'll have to learn. Just yesterday, those who explained to us that we should act quickly on the hearing of ministers and other officials are now telling us that we need to slow down in relation to data and issues that are interesting to the Bulgarian people. And on the contrary, those who wanted us to slow down yesterday want us to hurry today. We are difficult to navigate, but we will still support fast action, because this is a very important issue for Bulgarian citizens. We will support the two-month period with possible extension if the Commission does not do its job.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Third line. "The People's Representative Alexander Nenkov."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Kostadinov! What's the problem? The problem is that in the last few weeks it has grown stronger in society. The problem is really important, but the information that in society remains a hint of doubt: what is really happening in Haskovo and this region, is this water dangerous to people's health, isn't it? Naturally, the Rules allow us to extend the Commission's term, but we must set an ambitious objective. The ambitious goal is to come up with objective data as quickly as possible and whatever is necessary, if we must, of course, first say whether society is threatened by what is happening in the region, this drinking water. Secondly, let's see what measures are needed. Thirdly, let's see what the situation is in other regions of the country where there are similar cases and possibly take responsibility from people who have not done their job. And measures to be taken from now on by the executive, of course, and by the legislative. We can always extend the Commission's term, but because an illusion has been created that almost people are threatened in this region, that there is a danger to their health, there is no way to say now: we will work for three months. Yes, a lot of information can be gathered, many things can be explored, but I think we should set our ambitious goal within two months to complete the work in order to calm society. This is our job, not to politicize, as has happened in the last few weeks, too much politicalizes the subject, too many different groups have been trying to look for some kind of political dividend. This is about people's health, and we have no reason to waste more time on the real data to calm society down. That's our job.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Kostadinov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I wouldn't have taken the duplicate if Mr. Nenkov hadn't used the impressions and fears. I want to close the conversation here. Parliament began very well today with many consolidated votes. Let the Commission show whether they were suggestions or whether they are real facts registered by state institutions. I don't want to discuss it, Mr. Chairman, this question. I think we left very nicely this morning. I'm proposing three months. I think it's a reasonable thing to do. God willing, let's finish our work as soon as possible, because I also think we should broadcast such an objective signal. That's my offer. I wouldn't take any more part in talking about whether or not data is being tampered with. Let the Commission begin its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Alexander Nenkov the committee under appeal is set up for a period of two months. They voted 193 MPs: 128 against 11, 54 abstentions. The motion is accepted. I vote on the draft decision in its entirety, along with the change that has just been voted on. Please also vote on the proposed staff and Commission guidance. They voted 190 MPs: for 190, against and abstention there is no. A decision has been adopted unanimously. That concludes the legislative work for today. At 11:00 we continue with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u64	Honourable Members, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Please take your seats. New questions concerning the period from 21 to 27 April 2017: 1. There has been a question by the MPs Kolyo Milev, Ivan Ivanov, Nikolay Tsonkov, Slavcho Velkov and Krasimir Yankov to Stefan Yanev. The reply should be made in plenary on 5 May 2017. 2. A question has been received from the MP Krum Zarkov to Maria Pavlova, Minister of Justice, on the measures for implementing the recommendations set out in the Commission's latest report on Bulgaria's progress under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism. The reply should be made in writing by 10 May 2017. Written answer from the Minister of Tourism Stella Baltova to two questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova. We're moving into parliamentary control. Before that, for a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB, the word has the People's Representative Spas Gurnevski. After him is Mrs. Cornelia Ninova, Chairman of the BSP Parliamentary Group for Bulgaria, and Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov from the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, in just a few days as MP in the Forty-fourth National Assembly, especially in the vote on the Rules on its organisation and its activities, I was convinced that the Bulgarian Socialist Party had not yet realised the vote of the Bulgarian people from the past elections. She will probably never realize that Bulgaria's Euro-Atlantic orientation is an irreversible process, that its path and place in a united and prosperous Europe,... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u66	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u67	...transparent since the years of the great Bulgarian statesman Stefan Stambolov are the only possible and the most direct way for the prosperity of the next generations. And during the elections, and in this room in the last few days, I have heard ridiculous and demagogic statements about how the red centenary will fight for the elimination of the parallel state, the ever more absolute power of the insatiable oligarchy. I have heard her speakers plead for social justice, for higher wages, for decent pensions. The only thing I haven't heard is the answer to the question: how and where will this manna of heaven be poured out?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u68	How many parties have you changed?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u69	Dear colleagues, for twenty-seven years I have been at different levels in local politics. In these qualities, I have witnessed false and demagogy in the so-called transition to democracy. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The transition, which was initiated by the Bulgarian Communist Party and the repressive apparatus of State Security, has largely fulfilled its goal to transform red political power through its nomenclature into the tangible economic presence in the young democracy of Bulgaria. The communist overture had realized its collapse and sought new market relations to put under control. Otherwise, the great Bulgarian poet Valeri Petrov, a member and member of the Bulgarian Socialist Party at the beginning of the transition, was exclaimed at the end of his days: Yesterday in this hall, the issue of oligarchy was raised during the debate on the Plovdiv Fair. It is clear to everyone here and in this country that the huge percentage of Bulgarian oligarchs are actually the roots of the diverse nomenclature of BCP BSP. Is there an important structure in the economy, in the banks, in the press, in the business, in all important areas of public life, where people are not related to the former communist regime and their heirs?! If the SDS party, which I was a member of, had dissected the files at the beginning of the transition, had sought responsibility for Bulgaria's bankruptcy, for the attempt of the red unborn to turn us into the sixteenth Soviet republic, if an uncompromising lustration had taken place, we would not be witnessing today the phenomenon of the ruling oligarchy. Today, Mrs. Nino, we would not have asked the question: who took advantage of the International Fair in Plovdiv, created by Stambolov, as the face of the Bulgarian and Balkan economy in the distant 1891? Today we would not be asking the question: how this fair was criminally privatized, with this privatization before that Plovdiv municipality was stung with assets of priceless properties for nearly 150 million. lv.? I hope that the competent authorities we've been looking into this afternoon's robbery will fulfill their responsibilities. In Plovdiv was implemented a scheme for looting through a classic sample of Russian-Communist oligarch in the face of your party's senior functionary Georgi Gergov. A functionary who is a fourth generation communist, a Russian citizen, an honorary consul and a first generation oligarch. In fact, it was the doctrine of President Parvanov, executed by the government of the triple coalition, to create an oligarchic model in the country's governance. The theft of the century in Plovdiv took place in the period 15 June 2006. Then was Prime Minister Stanishev, Minister of Economy Rumen Ovcharov, but the deputy minister responsible for this Bulgarian wealth was you, Mrs. Ninova. In addition, you were also chairman of the Board of Directors at this same International Fair. Just a week ago, you dealt with your group of those days in the typical demagogic language of your party, and translated into Bulgarian, that means only one thing: The Gusher cut off his tail! Management such as yours of that time means one thing: either Gergov acquires properties for over half a billion without giving five leva out of his pocket and is a genius businessman, a world-class manager, or the state has been disbanded pigsty. If the latter is true, only pigs can become rich in such a government. I address the young parliamentarians, to you personally, Mr. Zarkov, to Mr. Mirchev. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u70	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u71	To get acquainted with the truth about the criminal transition in Bulgaria in order to be objective in the debates you will lead in this National Assembly and in society. For example, I will give you the young municipal councillor from the Bulgarian Socialist Party, Ivan Petkov, from Plovdiv, who yesterday at the session of the municipal council of the town under the hills voted not for the benefit of Georgi Gergov, but for the European development of Bulgaria and the European capital of culture. Such young people, regardless of their color, will respect always, Mr. Zarkov, Mr. Mirchev. Dear colleagues from the BSP, the elections have passed now is the time for serious and responsible management of the country. Before her, there are huge responsibilities and priorities in front of all of us. We all know them. It's time to put aside political opposition and get on with it... [[Shouts, lines and banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u72	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u73	Listening to you, I think this is going to be hard, but there's still hope.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u74	Mr. Gurnevsky!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u75	It is time to put aside political opposition [[Applause from GERB]] and take up with the challenges of time and in the name of the better for this hard-working people who sent us here. May God grant us reason to bring together the hopes and smiles of men! Thank you. [[Extreme applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Gurnevsky. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As you know, I'm tempted to respond to this statement properly, but I'm not doing it today. It could be tomorrow, it could be the day after tomorrow, you'll get a decent answer to the things you said. I won't do it today because I find it inappropriate right now. Our people are worried about what is happening yesterday in neighbouring Macedonia and expect from us otherwise. And we from BSP for Bulgaria offer you, right today we offer you this other one! We are worried about the events in neighbouring Macedonia. There's a process going on there that's probably not gonna end today. They concern the big issue of Bulgaria's national security. Today, all leaders of political forces express the positions of the parties we represent, but this is not a party issue. This is the question of Bulgaria! We cannot express it on Facebook or on Twitter, at least we are the leaders of the parties. Here in the Bulgarian Parliament, in a parliamentary republic is the place where we need to draw up a common national responsible position in defence of Bulgaria's national interest and all together to defend it. We easily place dividing lines, but right now it's about something standing above us, and that's the national security of our country. We all declared readiness for national agreement when it comes to Bulgaria. Let us now see if these words can go into action and put the Fatherland first and above us. That is why we are making the following proposal to you. Mr. Glauchev, I know very well that by our Rules there is no procedure to propose a new voting point in this House, but I also suggest that colleagues, technology and procedures should not stand above our political will to protect Bulgaria. We offer and submit to the National Assembly the General Declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. I will read to you the text of these Declarations and I hope you will find reason and responsibility, as well as the procedural way for this declaration to become a fact, to express the position of Bulgaria and to engage us all in its defence. DECLARATION of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria expresses deep concern about the development of the internal political crisis in the Republic of Macedonia. The invasion of the parliament building in Skopje and the physical attack on MPs deserve the most acute condemnation. This is an unacceptable violation of the institution of Parliament and democracy. Violence cannot be a means of resolving a political dispute. We expect the President of the Republic of Macedonia and the leading political forces to take action to calm the tensions and return to the policy field. We believe that resolving the crisis is only possible on the basis of compliance with the Constitution and the laws of the country. We call for wisdom and abstention from any provocations that may escalate the political crisis to interethnic conflict. This would have severe consequences for the Republic of Macedonia and would affect the stability and prospects for economic and social development in the region. We support the state unity and territorial integrity of the Republic of Macedonia. Bulgaria is ready within its forthcoming Presidency of the Council of the European Union to work to accelerate the accession of the Western Balkan countries to the European Union in order to ensure peace and development throughout Southeast Europe. Dear colleagues, this challenge is ahead of you. Now is the time to show whether we are primarily statesmen and Bulgarians, or political party individuals. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u78	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. My fellow Members, after parliamentary scrutiny, I am calling an extraordinary Presidency Council to discuss the Declaration. Here you go, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We from Coalition "United patriots" "NFSB," "Attack" and "VMRO" are following with concern what is happening in Macedonia. And our concern is not only because democratic rights are being violated in Macedonia. Our concern is mostly caused by the fact that in Macedonia there are 120 thousand of them are at least Bulgarian citizens, but there are hundreds of thousands more who are with Bulgarian consciousness and expect every reaction of Bulgaria on this issue. Therefore, this issue does not need to be explicitly politicised. If we have a declaration by the National Assembly, it should not be a declaration in the direction of taking a country to one or another of the countries in the conflict, but should be a declaration that is concerned about the security of Bulgaria, because of what is happening in Macedonia, problems are posed for the Bulgarian national security. As you can see, we have warned a long time ago that the situation in the Balkans is worrying about what is happening in Turkey, the ongoing conflicts in the Middle East, a further region, the situation in Macedonia, which was expected to escalate and this has happened. Therefore, colleagues, our call to the United Patriarchs, is in search of a national consensus and to put an end to this wild guerrilla, which the Bulgarian Parliament has been broadcasting for 27 years, is more than current than any other moment. I disagree with the assessment given by the caretaker government this morning that there is no direct threat to Bulgaria's security. There's a direct threat! We all remember what happened 15 years ago, when again there was a cruel conflict in which Bulgaria was in danger of being flooded by over 100,000 Albanian immigrants. The then Bulgarian government did not allow this to happen. So, for more than 15 years, that was it. There is now a similar problem, which, if the tensions in Macedonia escalate, could lead to similar problems against Bulgaria. You know that in the conflict in Macedonia, when the two countries fought, the religious factor was also inserted. On the side of one of the warring countries, dozens have joined, according to some data from the special services, more than hundreds of foreign citizens who were going to fight for one of the two causes. This will also happen.. the passage through Bulgarian territory. This also means a threat to our national security. We must therefore express our position and generate a policy of peace and order in the Balkans. Bulgaria is most directly interested in what is happening in Macedonia and is most directly interested there to restore the legal order, to respect citizens' rights and to find a solution to the crisis that has been going on for two years. In this respect, attempts are being made both by EU member states, so were attempts made by the Bulgarian government. To what extent these attempts have worked, we all see the crisis going on. Therefore, we must declare the position of the Republic of Bulgaria in the following aspect: Bulgaria respects, respects the territorial integrity of the Republic of Macedonia and does not approve of interference in the internal affairs of third countries because such requests were made by at least two other neighbouring countries. A similar situation in which Balkan countries begin to view Macedonia as a territory that can be federalised, divides, shares will only lead to new evils in the Balkans, new security problems, including Bulgarian citizens and, above all, Bulgarian citizens, and will lead to a destabilization of the region from which none of the Balkan countries has absolutely no interest. Therefore, the Bulgarian government, I am talking about the next Bulgarian government that has written in its programme that the main priority is protection of the national interests and protection of the rights of the Bulgarian communities, the rights and freedoms of the Bulgarian communities abroad, there will be a basic commitment for this to conduct a policy of calming the situation. Bulgaria must be the initiator and generator of such peaceful initiatives because it is in common Balkan interest! The old historical memories and relations that may arouse the minds of some of our fellow citizens, at this particular moment, are just a naked emotion. We must not allow what is happening in Macedonia, which is a struggle, a brutal struggle for power from both sides.. one side in the face of the current government strives in every way to preserve power. There are compromises on sovereignty and territorial integrity in the face of the opposition, including the state of Macedonia, which also caused a reaction. It's about a brutal power struggle and nothing else. These people don't move from any ideas. They are driven by just one desire to get their hands on power. There is little difference between the two sides in this regard. And we cannot rely on their conscience or conscience, therefore Bulgaria as a member state of both the European Union and NATO must take the initiative in its own hands as the initiator, I repeat, of a policy to calm the situation across the Balkan Peninsula. With regard to the proposed declaration, I think that the Bulgarian Parliament should consider this issue, but in the aspect of not taking sides in the political conflict there mainly. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I am merely saying how I see it without taking sides in this political conflict, expressing concern about the situation in the Balkans, possible destabilization, calling to all neighbouring countries for non-interference and request by Bulgaria for respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our neighbouring country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the group's chairman Mustafa Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u81	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! The movement for rights and freedoms with concern and concern follows developments in neighbouring Macedonia. What is happening there is a logical consequence of the processes that are taking place in this country and not only in Macedonia, but also in other countries of the region. The DPS has always stressed that the ultimate nationalism, which divides citizens by ethnic and religious sign, is dangerous to every country and in the Balkans, explosive. The profile of those who create riots and ethnic opposition in Macedonia is the same as the extreme nationalists in Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] There is even a match in the names of some of the political formations. For this reason, and not for any other reason, the DPS believes that tolerance and inclusion in the power of extreme nationalists is dangerous because sooner or later it torpedoes ethnic peace. The Bulgarian ethnic model of Dr. Ahmed Dogan, defended by the DPS in all circumstances in recent decades, is the foundation of ethnic peace in Bulgaria. But the Bulgarian ethnic model requires the efforts not only of one party and one ethnic group, but of all parties and of all ethnic groups, of the whole society. This is the lesson for us from the events in neighbouring Macedonia. We call on all of us once again to read Mr. Dogan's message on 16 March this year, because there is a warning about these processes, as well as their decision on unifying patriotism as an alternative to militant nationalism. We call on both the institutions and the politicians in Macedonia to reason and democratic solution of the problems, and Bulgarian politicians to twice as much reason and responsibility for the future and the National Assembly to adopt a common position of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Are there any other declarations? I won't. We're moving on to parliamentary control. Question to Nikolay Denkov "Office Minister of Education and Science," who will respond to a question from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev, Svetla Bachvarova and Anelia Klisarova regarding problems before the Operational Program "Science and education for smart growth." Here you are, Mrs. Klisarova. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Denkov! My question concerns the implementation of the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" because we know that the current levels of negotiation and absorption of funds, as well as the scandals that were expressed at the end of 2016, put this Programme at risk of not using funds for Bulgarian education and Bulgarian science. The reason for this risk is due to insufficient capacity during the second government of Borisov, to an irresponsibility because they cannot and should not be lost so much money. I would like to remind you that in order to have this Operational Programme, which is the first for Bulgaria in the field of education and science, this was thanks to the efforts of the teams of the Ministry of Education and Science in 2013. Unfortunately, the now agreed funds are only 24.4%, with an average arrangement for the other operational programmes 40%. Only the environment is after education and science. I have to say that for the moment there are only 3.5% of funds used, with other other other programmes................................................................................................ In 2016, very significant delays and problems related to the selection of projects for the centres of excellence, for the centres of competence, as well as the procedures for selecting evaluators, or according to the Ministry of Finance, Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" is the only programme which, on 31 March 2017, has no declared expenditure to the European Commission. At the same time, we must remind that the procedure for the release of budgetary resources is automatically initiated at the end of 2017. We must not allow the loss of these funds 2014 And what happens? I must also say that in 2013, in Borisov's first government, some 230 million were also at risk, which we were able to absorb with great effort. We didn't have our own operational programme back then, but towards "Human Resources Development" was our programme. We must not allow the funds for education, for science to be put at this great risk. [[The President signals that time has run out]] . Therefore, our question to you is: what are the measures you are taking?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u84	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisarova. I give the floor to Mr. Nikolay Denkov, Minister of Education and Science, for an answer. You have five minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u85	Dear ladies and gentlemen Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Dear Mrs. Klisarova, Dear Mrs. Bachvarova and Dear Mr. Mirchev! Due to the importance of the question asked, we are talking about an Operational Programme with a total budget of 1 billion. 370 million. BGN, and because of the short time I will read the answer to be as accurate as possible. At the beginning of the mandate of the caretaker government, my team and I identified four main priorities. One of them is the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" whose performance is facing a number of challenges. One of these challenges is the accumulated slowdown in 2016, especially in the part of "Science" that creates a risk of loss of funds in 2018. Here's the timeline of the delay itself: First, the criteria for selecting operations for the construction of centres of excellence and centres of competence with a total budget of 350 million. lv. They were approved in October 2015. However, the application procedure was opened only at the end of August 2016 instead of in February, as was the approved schedule of the Programme. It's a six-month delay. Secondly, the announced conditions for applying to these projects were set out vaguely, which made it difficult for the candidates to prepare the projects. They also identified technical errors and inaccuracies in the published documentation. For these reasons, on 20 January 2017, the Managing Authority of the Programme extended the deadline for submission of the projects by another month, which is further delay. Thirdly, the preconditions for implementing this part of the Operational Programme, as well as the National Strategy for Research Development and the National roadmap for scientific infrastructure were not adopted by the end of 2016, as was the national deadline for this task. This is also a delay of at least six months. Fourth, the preparation of the competitions for the construction of regional scientific centres was also delayed by at least 6 months. Fifth, we've identified problems with securing valuers for the submitted projects. The public order for their recruitment was announced only in September 2016. Furthermore, the requirements laid down by Minister Kuneva's team for the valuers were far lower than those previously agreed with the European Commission, which questioned the quality of the entire evaluation process. All these accumulated problems we had to solve as quickly as possible. In order to ensure a quality independent international evaluation of the projects, we have announced a new procedure for finding evaluators, which was directed directly to scientists from around the world. The requirements for these evaluators have been exceeded. They must have an educational and scientific degree of doctor and at least ten years of professional experience. For each scientific area, we have set specific requirements measured by objective science metrics, such as number of publications, number of quotations. They are the basis of a special methodology for ranking valuers, which is fully objective. 405 scientists from around the world have already submitted documents as candidates for evaluators. This number is fully sufficient to carry out an independent international evaluation of the submitted projects as set out in the Programme. By 18 May, these candidates will be ranked against their naukometric indicators and the leading candidates must sign contracts by the end of May. In parallel with this activity by the end of May the eligibility check for the submitted projects for scientific centres will be completed, which is done by Bulgarian evaluators without giving points. This means that the assessment of the scientific value of the submitted projects, which serves for their final ranking and is done by international valuers, will be carried out within the legal period between 5 June and 20 July 2017. It is planned that contracts for financing of the excellence centres and competence centres will be concluded with the successful scientific organisations by the end of September 2017. During the period of the caretaker government we also prepared all the preconditions for which the Ministry of Education is responsible, with which we prevented the danger of stopping the Programme due to unfulfilled conditions. A next meeting of the Monitoring Committee of the Operational Programme is scheduled for 23 June 2017. For this meeting, we are preparing criteria for the opening of two new operations for the construction of 110 million regional scientific centres. lv. and support projects financed by the European Teaming Programme for 30 million lv. If the next management team of the Ministry of Education continues to work at the same pace and complies with the developed timetable, the delay accumulated in 2016 will be completely overcome and the risk of loss of funds reduced to zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u86	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in for two supplementary questions within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u87	Dear Madam President, colleagues, dear Minister! I have listened carefully to your answer, which was quite detailed in terms of the problems and the concrete steps you have taken in the short term in order to be able to control the problems that have occurred within the caretaker government, but only in one sentence did you sum up that the funds provided for under the Operational Programme, Axis 1, will not be lost. You're more of an optimist in that direction. Our second question was: what long-term measures will be taken so that the Programme can be successfully completed in 2020? You claim that if the schedule is respected, it envisages that by the end of May you will have experts who are evaluators and that in September you will conclude contracts. Two questions arise from this finding. First, will the interim payments be reimbursed in 2017 and will the contracts concluded have funding? My personal opinion is that if there is no funding in 2017, whatever is being done from now on, it will be too late. Secondly, do you have any expertise on the problems that are ahead of you? Because of the projects that are applying, you did not say how many they were, but according to the media there are about 300 of the funds will go to construction works, which means an extremely long procedure under the Public Procurement Act, as these are state institutions. For the implementation of ideas projects, because the application is with ideas projects, from now on the concern is whether these projects will be able to be implemented. Again, I ask for your specific answer to the question: do you consider not only as a minister now, but also as an expert that the Programme will be successfully implemented in the part of Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you are, Mr. Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u89	The applications so far are 44. Of these, 11 are for centres of excellence and 33 for centres of competence. The preparation of these projects is complex. That is why we have provided for a unit in the Ministry of Education and Science to assist the applicant scientific organizations with the specific expertise needed to prepare public procurement and launch the activities of the Programme related to construction activities, purchase of equipment and anything else that can help them. At the moment, we have arranged a Programme in terms of both scientific projects and the Second and Third Axis related to education. All necessary steps are described. They are on a schedule and if the next team of the Ministry follows this timetable, then there will be no loss of funds under the First Priority Axis. However, if it goes in another direction, as happened last year with requests for a change of the Programme or with changes in the planned procedures, then the loss could amount to tens of millions of leva. I can't predict what the next D.O.D. team will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u90	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Come in for an attitude within two minutes, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u91	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! What I understand from your answer is that in the government of Borisov 2 there has been a delay in procedures with over six months, there have been unclear conditions, errors, problems with the evaluators, scientific circles protested and said about these problems. I am personally glad that you have taken appropriate measures to remove the handicaps. I would like to remind you that science policy with the governments of Mr. Borisov has always been focused on the fact that the budget will not be allocated funds, and they will come from the European programmes. Even then, we said that European programmes could be threatened what happened during Mrs. Kuneva's mandate as Minister, and that real money for science may not be made and science in Bulgaria can not be done. I am pleased that the obstacles have been overcome. There's no more danger of stopping. The delay can also be overcome. If there are adjustments, they will be on the value of 42 million. BGN, not the entire program of 350 million. I very much hope that the next government will continue and that the Programme will not be threatened. I am worried about the practice of the government Borisov 2 that in order to ensure party activists, many of the specialists left the Ministry of Education. Maybe that's why the program was brought to a threat. The government has declared science and education a priority, but that is only in words, because in the previous two governments we have seen that genocide against science is huge. That's what the scandal with the 350 million shows. The stage program has been saved, as I understand it. From now on if there are losses of funds under this Programme, so only and only will the next government of Mr. Borisov be blamed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u92	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Thank you to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Nikolai Denkov. We move on to the next question to the Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Energy Mr. Nikolay Pavlov, who will answer the question from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev and Tasco Ermenkov on the opinion of the Republic of Bulgaria on the anti-monopoly work of the European Commission against the European Commission. Here you go, Mr. Boychev. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister of the Service, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 13 March, the European Commission announced its decision on the anti-monopoly case, which has been leading for many years against The eight countries concerned under this case have a seven-week period to give their opinion and position on the proposals that the European Commission has made to the European Commission. That period shall expire on 4 May next week. In this regard, Minister, please answer us with colleague Ermenkov on the following questions: do you have an analysis and evaluation of the effect of the proposals of the Minister on the existing contracts for the delivery and transit of natural gas to Bulgaria? I would especially like you to explain what is going on with our transit contract in view of various clauses that are also being commented on and opportunities to renegotiate these types of long-term contracts? Have you considered the hypothesis in view of the position claimed by the Russian side to end the transit of Russian gas through the territory of Ukraine since 2019? I would like to see how we will all together protect the national interest to preserve the transit fees that our country receives in the amount of about $100 million under the contract so in force, which seems to me to be a major objective in these negotiations. At the same time, I would also like you to say about the gas supply contract: what will change, as there are various speculations about whether the entry point on which Bulgaria receives gas will not be changed and what will be the consequences of this? The public interprets a lot of facts that, you see, changing the pricing model would result in a drastic reduction in the price of gas. I'd like to see if you have such estimates and if that's the case? Finally, it is good to know if there is a position and opinion already drawn up by your ministry and the Council of Ministers on this procedure? I would like to say that, as representatives of the BSP, we have not been invited to talks so far, I see that you have led others, we are ready to participate in the formation of this type of national position.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. I give the floor to Mr. Nikolai Pavlov. Colleagues, under procedure, he is entitled to three minutes' response. I suggest, if you don't mind, that we extend the time, because there are a lot of questions that need to be answered. Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u95	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Ermenkov, dear Mr. Boychev! In response to your parliamentary questions and regarding my request to be heard in Parliament in connection with case No 39816 of the European Commission v. Gszprom, I present to your attention an opinion and position which contains an answer to the questions asked. On 16 March 2017, the European Commission published in the 9 of Regulation No 1/2003 in relation to a case brought against the "Gszprom' to distort competition rules by means of a comprehensive strategy for dividing central and eastern European gas markets. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is expected, on the basis of all the comments received, the so-called "market test', that the European Commission will finally decide whether the commitments proposed by the GSzprom are a satisfactory response to the concerns of distortion of competition. The proceedings before the European Commission began in 2012, and on 22 April 2015 the Commission adopted an statement of objections concerning a alleged infringement of art. 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union by the "Gazprom" in the wholesale supply markets of natural gas in eight Member States: Bulgaria, Estonia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Slovakia. The Commission takes the view that GSzprom has a dominant position on both the eight central and eastern European markets for wholesale supply up the gas chain and that it may have abused its dominant position. In the European Commission's view, GSzprom is implementing a comprehensive abuse strategy by imposing territorial restrictions in its supply contracts with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, and in particular an export ban, destination clauses and equivalent measures that may have hindered cross-border transmission of gas. This has led to the imposition of unfair pricing policy in five Member States: Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, as according to the European Commission's estimates, the price of wholesalers was significantly higher than the competitive gas prices in Western Europe. In addition, according to the European Commission, "Gszprom" has abused its dominant position in the market for wholesale supply of natural gas in Bulgaria by binding gas supplies to investments in the South Stream Project. The infringements referred to above are possible and are based only on the preliminary assessment of the European Commission. If it accepts the commitments as proposed or accordingly amended as a result of the market test currently taking place, according to art. 9 of Regulation 1/2003 the European Commission will cease the proceedings and will not rule on whether the Court of Justice has committed an infringement. Accordingly, the European Commission will not impose a financial penalty, but will be obliged to fulfil the commitments made. In the proposal for commitments, Gazprom is obliged to amend contracts with its customers by removing obstacles to free transmission of gas at competitive prices in Central and Eastern Europe. According to the proposed commitments: First, the Gazprom undertakes not to apply and introduce clauses in its existing and future gas supply contracts in Central and Eastern Europe which may directly and indirectly prohibit or restrict customers' ability to re-export and resale natural gas. Secondly, Gazprom will ensure an amendment of its contracts with the counterparties from Bulgaria and Greece, necessary for the conclusion of an interconnection agreement between Bulgaria and the other Member States of the European Union. Thirdly, the Gazprom will offer its clients from Central and Eastern Europe the opportunity to request all or part of their agreed volumes of natural gas delivered at several delivery points in Central and Eastern Europe to be delivered by the Gsprom at another point of delivery to Bulgaria and the Baltic States. "Gazprom" will offer this opportunity until the customer is able to organise the transport of natural gas himself. Fourth, the Commission will introduce a price review clause in its contracts or amend the existing mechanism in such a way as to enable each of the parties to trigger a price examination if it does not reflect the price change at the German, French and Italian border, or the price change of natural gas in the gas distribution centres, or the so-called hubs in Europe in the coming Europe, it will commit itself to increasing the frequency and speed of the price revision. Fifthly, Gazprom will not claim penalties on the basis of the termination of the South Stream project by the Bulgarian counterparties. The termination has been confirmed by "Gszprom". The commitments are proposed for a period of eight years and their final version will become known after the completion of the market test procedure. In accordance with the opinions received, the European Commission may request that they be amended or supplemented before they are approved. The commitments will only become binding on the European Commission if it takes a decision to adopt them and makes them legally binding. Only after the final adoption of the commitments in the deadlines set in them should the bilateral negotiations between the "Gszprom" and the Bulgarian counterparties begin to change the existing contracts, including the specific commercial issues. What is the position of Bulgaria? The proposed commitments directly affect the Bulgarian Energy Holding (BEH), the Bulgarian Energy Holding (BEUH), the Bulgargas (Bulgartransgaz) and their contractual relations with the Bulgarian Energy Holding (BECH). There is a contract for the supply of natural gas, which lasts until 2022. "Bulgartransgaz" has entered into a transit contract across the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with a period of validity up to 2030. Each of these companies has drawn up its position in terms of the expected consequences of the commitments on the activity it carries out, the security of supply and the development of the natural gas market in Bulgaria. The opinions are ready and will be deposited with the European Commission at the beginning of next week. At the same time, due to a number of ambiguities in the proposal of the European Commission, companies are in contact with the European Commission for further information and clarification. Once the open questions are clarified, opinions will be supplemented and extended. What is the opinion of the companies? Without violating the confidentiality clauses under the existing contracts, companies generally give a positive assessment of the commitments, but consider that they should be amended and supplemented. The last key questions. First, providing transparent sources of information on the reference prices at the borders of Germany, France and Italy and gas hubs that can be used in periodic updates of the price of natural gas. Secondly, a transitional period with the possibility of more frequent re-negotiation of the prices of the two years provided for in the proposal so that the parties can adapt their price formula in such a way as to prevent market shock and sharp price changes. Third, equality of Bulgarian gas traders with those of Central and Eastern Europe when using the possibility of changing the supply point of natural gas. The aim is to ensure the opportunity not only for foreign traders to receive assistance from the Bulgarian market in order to operate on the Bulgarian market, but also for the Bulgarians to receive one for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, and for the Baltic States. Fourth, binding obligations to ensure the quality of natural gas to reciprocal commitments of gas operators up the supply chain. Fifth, increased powers of the controlling authority, which is intended to be nominated by the European Commission to monitor the implementation of commitments regarding the pricing of natural gas. At the moment, its powers are focused mainly on the amount of transmission charges that the GSzprom may charge when the delivery point is changed. I stress once again that companies have requested further information from the European Commission. If the commitments are approved, the companies will face serious negotiations with From a Bulgarian point of view, it is important to clarify every detail in the earliest possible phase, all the possibilities and risks that commitments create in these negotiations. What's our position? On 10 April 2017, an Interdepartmental Group was formed with the participation of the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Affairs, which analyzed the commitments proposed by Bulgarian representatives from the Bulgarian Energy Holding, Bulgargaz, Bulgartransgaz, and the Ministry of Energy took part in the Gas Forum in Warsaw organized by the Visegrad Four countries. The conclusions of the working group will present briefly and they are as follows. The commitments proposed by GSprom are a step forward and create opportunities for Bulgarian companies to negotiate with the Russian country pricing, in whole or in part, in line with the price dynamics of the major markets in Western Europe, and to enter into permanent interconnection agreements with Romania and Greece. The requests of "Gazprom" related to the removal of territorial restrictions clauses from the natural gas supply contracts and the refusal of claims to the Bulgarian country in relation to the termination of the South Stream.They do not contain any new moments for Bulgaria, but at the principle level are assessed positively, as they contribute to legal certainty. What do I mean? There is no clause in Bulgargaz's contract for delivery with the Gazpromexport. With regard to the South Stream Treaty, there is no basis for a claim by the Gszprom on penalties amounting to 70 million. USD as the final investment decision was adopted within the deadline. Along with the positive side, commitments create risks. Bulgaria needs additional information on the possibility provided for in the commitments to change the point of delivery Negru Water with another border point of delivery for Bulgaria. This may be related to the upcoming expiry of the transit contracts in Ukraine in 2019. If this is confirmed and the "Gszprom" intends to stop using the current route, it is important for security of supply to be clear how the quantities for Bulgaria will be guaranteed and which will be the new delivery point. Will it redirect the supplies, for example, through Turkey or Western Europe, on what route and against what transit charges? Next, it is in the interest of the Bulgarian state not to create prerequisites for isolation of the country from the transit of Russian gas to Greece, Turkey and Macedonia. Bulgaria should retain its role as a distribution centre in the region as well as the corresponding financial receipts from transit fees. In the context of the proposal is also the question of the future of the gas distribution centre, which for Bulgaria would be a guarantee of independence of supply and expansion of our regional role. On strategic issues, they are not bound by the deadline for providing an opinion to the European Commission. In the framework of the market test, this period is binding only on those specifically affected by the "Gszprom's practices and the proposed commitments, companies and persons. In conclusion, the European Commission's invitation to submit opinions on the proposals of....................................... is not only addressed to state-owned energy companies or state, but to all parties concerned. This has been sufficiently explained by the European Commission in the media presentation of the commitments and I hope it has reached the Bulgarian society. The Ministry of Energy also addressed business organizations in this sense. The Bulgarian business and all other affected persons are an equal participant in these consultations and can express their attitude by sending opinions to the European Commission. I hope that such positions are prepared and Bulgaria will participate in the market test not only through its state companies, but also with representatives of the private sector. The commitments of Gazprom are both an opportunity and a challenge to Bulgaria and efforts are needed by both the state and all market participants in order to be used in the best way to improve the conditions of the Bulgarian natural gas market. The challenge for the next government will be for the country not to become just a natural gas consumer - a customer, but to preserve the role of a transit centre in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u96	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a cue for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u97	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the comprehensive response we received from Minister Pavlov. However, two questions remained somewhat unclear. One is loudly claimed by some, in my opinion, insufficiently professionally prepared persons, that gas prices will fall by 30 "40" 50% as a result of this re-negotiation. You remember that thing. You know, some of them did PR with that. I want to ask one question is, however, to dispel these speculations and expectations that there are, and to tell people that not everything that sounds beautiful can be true. The second question that worries me deeply is, and what you expressed as a worry that there is a high probability that Bulgaria from a transit country will become the end point of a country for obtaining, for gas consumption, if the point of access to the gas that comes to Bulgaria changes. In this regard, it still seems to me that this is the moment when we can talk to "Gazprom" about the realization of the so-called gas distribution centre, because I think there is no one in this room who doubts that this gas distribution centre, without the possibility of delivering gas from Russia, is at 90% pointless. I will also allow myself a question that is beyond what we have talked about, because today the European Commission is also dealing with the issue of emissions of internal plants. If you have the opportunity to do so, it is not mandatory, not in the procedure, to tell us, however, whether the Ministry has taken any measures on this issue, because you know that it is about the energy security of the state. We are talking about the emission limit and the work of about 150,000 employed in the sector, as long as you have the opportunity, Mr. Minister, and if the President allows you to respond. I think it is an important issue because energy is not a market for day-to-day goods with instant realization [[the President signals that time has run out]] One day, and it's long-term, and what's at stake today has results in 20, 30, 40 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Minister, you have two minutes. If you wish, you can also answer the question that is outside of your question, if you do not answer what you are asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u99	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, of course, the Ministry of Energy has taken all actions to protect maximum jobs, the plants in the Marishka Basin. All the opinions that we need, all the contacts that had to be made, it's all over. I really hope for a sensible decision from the European Commission, because this means a lot to Bulgaria. You know that the Marishka pool feeds more than 150,000 people and the generations produce 40% of the electricity in our country. In terms of natural gas prices. As I said, first we need to determine what the mechanism of the new price formula will be for the gas distribution centre to be referred to the relevant component, to the entry point of the country concerned, because you know that both hubs and entry points of the country concerned are a mix of prices. There, the price is formed by natural gas of different origins, LNG, pipe gas, traders, direct delivery from We want to be able our price to be tied to the direct delivery, to the corresponding entry point. With regard to the decrease in the price of 40%. Here I cannot commit to such a huge reduction, but in any case we will want and insist when the time of the negotiations comes to negotiate the best price for Bulgaria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u100	Thank you, dear Minister. That concludes today's parliamentary control, but that is not the case with today's sitting. I declare a recess until the Conference of Presidents is completed. Please don't leave.. We expect a vote on a declaration. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-28.u101	We're continuing the hearing. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the House to vote. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, due to the existence of exceptional circumstances and, exceptionally, on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that a draft declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria be included as an additional item on the agenda for today's plenary session. Please vote. There are 152 MPs voting: 152, no opposition and no abstentions. The inclusion of the Declaration Project as a item on the agenda is unanimously adopted. Moving on to: PROJECT OF A DECLARATION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. I'll introduce you to the Declaration Project. The draft was adopted by consensus at a meeting of the Conference of Presidents and it is the following. Thanks to all our colleagues for understanding we have united, once again we set a good example. DECLARATION of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria expresses deep concern about the development of the crisis in the Republic of Macedonia. The invasion of the parliament building and the physical attack on MPs deserve the most acute condemnation. As parliamentarians, we believe that aggression against our fellow Members is an unacceptable violation of Parliament and democracy. Violence cannot be a means of resolving political disputes. We hope that the President of the Republic of Macedonia and the leading political forces will take action to calm the tensions and return to the policy field. We believe that resolving the crisis is only possible on the basis of respect for the Constitution and the laws of the country. We call for wisdom and abstention from any provocations that may escalate to interethnic conflict. This would have severe consequences for the Republic of Macedonia and would affect the stability and prospects for economic and social development in the region. We support the state unity and territorial integrity of the Republic of Macedonia. Within the framework of the forthcoming Presidency of the Council of the European Union, Bulgaria will work to accelerate the process of accession of the Western Balkan countries to the European Union in order to ensure peace and development throughout Southeast Europe. This is the draft declaration, honourable Members. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. I put to the vote your proposed project. Please vote. They voted 164 MPs: for 164, against and abstention there is no. The declaration is unanimous. [[Applause.]] Thank you, fellow Members. Due to the exhaustion of today's agenda, I am adjourned. The next plenary session is Wednesday, 3 May 2017, at 9.00 p.m. Have a nice Saturday and Sunday! [[PHONE RINGING]]
