ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! Please take your seats. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Message: On the basis of art. 14, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I present to you the following decision: A meeting of the United patriots' Parliamentary Group on 6 June 2017 decided on a change in the leadership of the parliamentary group. Volen Nikolov Siderov, Vice-President Valentin Kirilov Kasabov and Iskren Vasilev Veselinov, was elected Chairman. The secretaries are Julian Krastev Angelov, Boris Yankov Yachev and Desislav Slavov Chukolov. One more message: On 7 June 2017 the National Assembly received a request from the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, ov. No 727-00-6, for granting permission to arousal (continuation) of prosecution against the People's Representative Dimitar Ivanov Avramov, No C-12 from 2017 according to the description of the Sofia City Court, Criminal Division, 19th Chamber, formed by an indictment filed by the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office on file No 4-11-88 of 2012 according to the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office for a crime under art. 304b, para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 26, para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 20, para. 2 of the Penal Code. By letter dated 7 June 2017, the President of the National Assembly informed the National Assembly of the request and the opportunity to familiarise himself with the attached materials. Moving on to: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE OMBUDSMAN OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2016 Report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. The report will introduce you to the President of the Commission, the People's Representative Krasimir Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Allow procedure under art. 49, para. 2 For admission of persons in the hall. This is about the Ombudsman of Bulgaria Mrs. Maya Manolova, Deputy Ombudsman Mrs. Diana Kovacheva and Senior Expert.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u3	We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Krasimir Velchev. Vote 188 MPs: 187, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u4	Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to ♪ I can't believe on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 739-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 May 2017. A report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 739-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 May 2017, was discussed at a regular meeting of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, held on 25 May 2017. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Polina Stoyanova, Head of Cabinet, and Mrs. Emilia Karaabova, Director of Public Relations at the Institution. The report on the Ombudsman's activities in 2016 was presented by Mrs. Maya Manolova. She stressed that for the Ombudsman's institution the year 2016 was the year of action. Such were citizens' expectations for practical actions, for concrete intervention and for solving their problems. And this is the institution's most significant victory to show that it works effectively. Among the larger campaigns carried out by the Ombudsman, which concern the protection of the rights of many citizens, is the one with which consumer disputes are excluded from the scope of arbitration courts. This concludes the parallel judicial system in which hundreds of thousands of citizens suffered. A second cause, which has successfully completed, is the campaign for dropping VAT on donated foods. An important step to create a mechanism through which excess food reaches the people who need it. This is important both for producers, for the food industry and for society, because we are learning to be more tolerant and empathetic. In the battle against the monopolies, specifically against the heating companies, no significant progress has been made, but the reduction in the amount of legal consul fees by six times is a step in the right direction. A key priority for 2016 is the campaign in our hands, dedicated to children's rights. According to the importer, proof of the increased trust in the institution is also the record number of complaints and signals that have occurred in the past year The citizens consulted at the institution's reception are 17 362, with total direct assistance from the Ombudsman being 27 037, which is 12 000 more than the previous year. As every year, the largest number of complaints by users of public services is 3138, which have increased by more than twice compared to 2015. Again, among them are the complaints and calls against the heating companies - 886, followed by the mobile operators - 531, is the services - 503, water services - 422, banks and financial institutions - 322 complaints. Mrs. Manolova pointed out other complaints, increased by more than 100%, those concerning violated socio-economic rights, violated property rights, violation of fundamental rights and freedoms and poor administrative service. In fulfilling the commitment she made to the Commission on Religions and Human Rights when she was elected ombudsman, she gave the institution's work on the ground, with 50 settlements in the country where she met with the citizens, 27 are the admissions made so that direct and immediate access to the team is ensured, and thematic receptions are organised. 18 round tables and public discussions were held. As a result of his activities on specific issues, the Ombudsman exercised his right to an indirect legislative initiative. 11 bills and 4 requests were submitted to the Constitutional Court. Mrs. Manolova noted as a positive trend good cooperation and interaction with the National Assembly, institutions and administration at central and local level, thanks to which many problems have been solved. During the past year, each second recommendation made by it has been implemented regardless of which institution it is addressed to. The Ombudsman's annual report for 2016 includes for the first time a separate part concerning the monitoring carried out on the implementation of conventions relating to the protection of human rights to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a party. During the discussion the MPs Krasimir Velchev, Pavel Shopov, Jayhan Ibryamov and Vasil Antonov expressed their views on the report and asked questions to Mrs. Maya Manolova. The questions were related to increasing the number of complaints and signals, the activities of the control bodies with regard to electricity distribution companies, the status of the institution and the upcoming legislative initiatives. Mrs. Maya Manolova answered in detail every question asked to her. The chairman of the committee stressed that the Commission will provide the Ombudsman with the necessary assistance in order to resolve the problems of Bulgarian citizens fairly. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights unanimously, with 17 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 739-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 May 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. Next is a Report of the Commission on Synergy with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints. Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 739-02-3 submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 May 2017. The Committee on Interaction with NGOs and Citizens' Complaints at a regular meeting held on 1 June 2017 discussed and discussed a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 739-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 May 2017. At the Commission meeting, the report was presented by Mrs. Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the performance of art. 22, para.1 and 4 of the Law on the Ombudsman, the report on the activity has been submitted to the National Assembly. As an importer, the Ombudsman presented in a summary the report on the 2016 report. 27 037 citizens have sought assistance from the Ombudsman, which is 73.49% more than in 2015, 10 640 are complaints and signals submitted. 9675 complaints and alerts of citizens were completed in 2016, 7448 of which were admissible, on which recommendations and opinions were given. The relevant chapters of the report set out specific actions of the Ombudsman to protect citizens' rights by sector. In one year, 17 362 people passed through the National Public Defender's admissions office. The main priority of the National Ombudsman for 2016 is the rights of children. The goal is to increase the sensitivity to the rights of the child, the requirements to create policies and regulatory changes after assessing their impact on the child and the family, as well as to be based on proven good practices. The work in 2016 was particularly active in monitoring, the work on complaints and signals of citizens, advocacy actions to promote and protect children's rights. As an independent body for child rights monitoring, the Ombudsman finds it important to highlight the strengths and challenges in the field of child rights and policies: - the will and willingness of the institutions and NGOs to work towards improving the well-being of children; - successful implementation of the first stage of the process of deinstitutionalization of care for children and closure of institutions for children with disabilities; - deployment of a wide range of social services for children and families. The complaints about children with disabilities are characterized by high intensity and most of them follow changes in legislation and the negative impact these changes have on children's rights. Most often complaints and complaints are submitted by parents and relatives of the child, follow NGOs, such as the National Network for Children, which always addresses its positions and opinions to the Ombudsman. A huge part of the work last year is aimed at protecting the rights of public service users, that is, the actions to protect the rights of citizens from monopoly companies. Last year and this year is the largest number of complaints of citizens against the heating companies, in particular Sofia heating, and the problems are transferred every year. With regard to the other huge number of complaints against energy distribution companies, the main problem is the correction of electricity in the past period, without proven consumer guilt. There are few complaints against mobile operators regarding participation in games and quizzes without express customer consent. An important theme in the Ombudsman's work is the protection of one of the most vulnerable groups in our society, the people with disabilities who need the most support in the realization of their rights. In the active process of finding better and more effective solutions, in 2016, the Ombudsman sent dozens of recommendations to the state administration, there were several proposals for legislative changes, a number of meetings and public discussions on the rights of disabled people. The protection of citizens' rights in healthcare is one of the main priorities in the institution's work over the past year. Analysis of the problems shows that there are no objective data showing that patients' access to timely and quality medical care has improved as a result of the changes undertaken during the year. At the end of 2015, the Ombudsman established an Advisory Council to the institution to which undisputed lawyers are invited and whose expertise assists the Ombudsman in exercising his powers of protection of the rights of Bulgarian citizens. On the basis of the Council's expert analysis, the Ombudsman referred to the Constitutional Court with requests for unconstitutionality of the provisions of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses, texts of the Civil Procedure Code, the Code of Conduct and the Election Code. After numerous complaints by citizens, noting the problem in the Ombudsman's annual reports and searching for different ways to resolve it, the institution reported a serious increase in complaints against the actions of public and private judicial contractors in 2016. For another consecutive year, the applicants seek the assistance of the Ombudsman in connection with the postings imposed by the contractors on bank accounts on which non-segregible income is transferred, excessive charges and costs charged, etc. The annual report of the Ombudsman for 2016 includes for the first time a separate part concerning the monitoring carried out on the implementation of conventions relating to the protection of human rights to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a party: the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights of the Council of Europe, the Convention for the Protection of the Rights of the Child of the United Nations, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence (Istanbul Convention) of the Council of Europe. During the discussion spoke the MPs Snezana Dukova, Krum Zarkov, Velislava Krasteva and Milena Damyanova, who generally supported the presented report and expressed their opinion that the institution enjoys the trust of Bulgarian citizens. It has been stated categorically that the joint work of the Commission and the Ombudsman's institution is very important and useful in solving people's problems. It was said that the main priority of the report was the problems of children. A number of questions were asked to which Mrs. Manolova gave comprehensive answers. On the basis of the submitted Report and following the subsequent vote, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints, with 15 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. The next report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is in order. Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 739-02-3 submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 May 2017. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 31 May 2017 discussed and discussed a Report on the activity of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Emilia Karabova, Director of the Directorate, Ventslava Mircheva, Head of Department, and experts from the Ombudsman's administration, representatives of NGOs. The report was presented by Mrs. Manolova. It started taking account of its activities by presenting the priorities that the Ombudsman and his administration had in 2016, namely the protection of children's rights, the protection of citizens' rights against abuse of monopolies, the protection of citizens' rights at risk of social exclusion. Mrs. Manolova presented comprehensively all the campaigns that have been organised and conducted over the past year. Easter is a campaign for each and every one of the most important Christian celebrations. Food vouchers worth 11 000 BGN, left unclaimed after the Easter campaign for everyone, were donated by the Ombudsman to the victims of the village of Hitrino. The ombudsman Maya Manolova and representatives of the branch organizations from the food industry and food chains, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, the Bulgarian Food Bank and the Bulgarian Red Cross have organized and implemented a new joint campaign under the title of Easter "Every day." Its aim was to eliminate 20% value added tax on donated food. In the framework of this campaign, the Ombudsman proposed an amendment to the regulations to remove VAT on donated foods and insisted that the parameters in this change be laid down in Budget 2017. The next campaign is "Don't waste your money" which is aimed at all Bulgarian citizens and is against the waste of food. The initiative included a charity Christmas bazaar and was supported by the Bulgarian Red Cross, the Bulgarian Food Bank, the National Branch Union of bakers and bakers and many other organizations. On the occasion of the World Child's Day and the anniversary of the signing of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Ombudsman organised a National Week in support of the rights of the child. The aim of the initiative was to focus the attention of the institutions and the public to the problems of children in Bulgaria and to guarantee and protect their rights, some of which often remain hidden or underestimated. On November 17th, the Ombudsman submitted to the National Assembly a special report on the status of the rights of unaccompanied refugee children seeking or receiving asylum. Within the framework of the national campaign, the Ombudsman organised a public discussion on the topic of "Access of children with disabilities to their rights" real problems and possible solutions. The focus of the discussion was on the problems with the limited access of children with disabilities to adequate and affordable assistant support; the problems with aids and medical devices; the lack of adequate socio-economic protection and the proposals to overcome the challenges, as well as the non-functioning still registers for statistical information related to children with disabilities. The next focus on the presentation of the report Mrs. Manolova put on her work with the citizens. She informed the MPs that during the year 27 037 citizens sought the assistance of the Ombudsman; 17 362 citizens were accepted and consulted at the Ombudsman's reception. Based on the subject of the work of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the findings and recommendations related to the protection of the social rights of citizens, described in the report under the title "For the social rights of citizens" were presented in detail. According to the Ombudsman's 2016 report, the trend for continuous increases in complaints and signals, especially collective ones related to threatened or violated social rights, remains. There is an increased sensitivity to their respect and ability to exercise. The complaints and alerts were 1429, which was 88% higher than those in 2015 and represented nearly 14% of the total number addressed to the Ombudsman's institution. The highest growth compared to the previous year has the requests for assistance on issues of right to social aid, housing aid and pension rights arising from lack of sufficient own income and expected social support. Citizens are dissatisfied with the actions or omissions of administrations, disagreement with judicial decisions and with the rules established by law, making proposals for its change. Labour rights and employment. The exercise of rights related to the repression of labour and related issues continued to be subject to a significant proportion of complaints and alerts in 2016. With regard to wages and benefits, the data in the Report shows that in most cases the rates of wages cannot guarantee a decent life for citizens. Often they are close to the minimum wage established for the country. In the controls it becomes clear that there are cases of additional payments in the form of monthly payments. The majority of the complaints and alerts are for non-payments by employers of commercial companies, basic and additional wages. No benefits for unused paid annual leave shall be paid, no notice of the first month of work left. It is worrying that for months, despite the delay in paying the salaries or not paying them at all, citizens have worked with the hope of paying them off without their employers taking action to implement the payment agreed by the employment contracts. Social security and benefits. The complaints of citizens relating to social security relate mainly to problems: - arising from the recovery, suspension or termination of monetary benefits for pregnancy and childbirth and/or raising of a young child, as well as for unemployment. Citizens are prevented from receiving temporary disability and maternity benefits when the employer/his duly accredited representative cannot be found, and in the absence of employer's financial and accounting records, especially after the change of ownership of a large-money company. In similar circumstances, as in the case of an unsecured insurance contribution, citizens cannot exercise their own social security rights. As a separate problem, the low amount of child care compensation until 2 years of age emerges. Right to social assistance and social services. As in previous years, citizens seek assistance in providing social assistance, cancellation of orders for refusals to provide social assistance, change of regulations, advice. They share that aid is granted to people or families who, according to their standard of living, actually have sufficient income. In the winter season, there has traditionally been an increase in complaints requesting targeted heating aid or against refusals to grant such aid. Right to retirement. The complaints and signals concerning the right to pensions of Bulgarian citizens and the problems they have faced in this direction are 475. The problems are mainly related to the low amount of pensions received. In addition, there are complaints concerning: refusals to grant a pension or adjustment to its amount; receipt of a survivor's pension from a child to a deceased parent who, due to his age or employment as a student in a higher education institution, has not had the opportunity to acquire requirements from the Social Insurance Service Code; the disadvantaged treatment of persons who would like to benefit from the early retirement opportunity granted by law up to one year earlier than their age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 of the CSR; lack of legal recognition for an internship in retirement of the time during which a child takes care of a parent (an adopter) with a permanently reduced working capacity above 90% and requiring foreign assistance in case the child is not insured. In defence of citizens' pension rights, the Ombudsman recommends: - to find an opportunity to receive a survivor's pension from a child to a deceased parent who, due to his age or employment as a student in a higher education institution, has not had the opportunity to acquire requirements of CSR insurance service; - to examine all possibilities for updating the guaranteed annual minimum income for the country, which currently is BGN 780. and has not been changed since 2009; - to discuss a change in CSR to enable citizens to be treated equally. The discussion was attended by the MPs Milko Nedyalkov, Mikhail Hristov and Hassan Ademov. They expressed their satisfaction with the report presented and congratulated the Ombudsman on the work well done this year. Questions were asked in particular regarding the findings and activities related to the rights of people with disabilities. Recommendations were also made to Mrs. Manolova to defend and defend the rights of Bulgarian citizens even more strongly, although this is sometimes related to unpopular solutions and measures for which the MPs give a clear account. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 19 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 739-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 May 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. The next report is from the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 739-02-3, submitted on 5 May 2017 by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria At its regular meeting held on 25 May 2017, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed a Report on the activity of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, submitted to the National Assembly by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 May 2017 on the basis of art. 22, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Maya Manolova, Member of the Republic of Bulgaria, Ms. Polina Stoyanova, Head of Ombudsman's Office, Emilia Karaabova, Director of Public Relations and Protocol, Nurten Patrakli, Senior Expert in the Department of Children's Rights, Disabilities and Discrimination, Atanaska Mutafchieva, Senior Expert, Social Rights, Education, Health and Environment. On behalf of the importer, the report, as part of the Commission's competence, was presented by Mrs Maya Manolova. In his statement, the Ombudsman noted that the institution's activities for 2016 in relation to children's rights were defined as the year of active communication and actions to promote and protect children's rights. The importer points out that as a result of its activities, the institution has managed to define problems and challenges, as well as strengths, and to address a number of specific problems for which it has been addressed. With regard to the findings on the strengths, first of all, the successful realization and completion of deinstitutionalization should be noted, in the second place the participation of the Bulgarian municipalities, of a very wide range of social services for children and families, and third place the will and demand of the institutions and the non-governmental sector to work actively to protect children's rights and to increase their well-being. The general review of complaints and alerts related to children's rights shows that compared to last year their number has increased nearly three times. The report shows that there are accumulation of complaints from parents about violence against their children in kindergartens and schools, using methods and approaches to work that humiliate the child and undermine his dignity. In his systematic work on such complaints, the Ombudsman found that there was no effective mechanism for detecting and proving cases of violence, especially in nursery and gardens. Complaints about violations related to the exercise of parental rights and the right of the child to maintain contact with their two parents also increase, which indicates that the protection system cannot define what specific actions to take and how to attract parents to cooperate and resolve problems. The Ombudsman recommends that changes to the Family Code by specific arrangements for parental responsibility after parental separation, as well as parental rights be granted for joint post-divorce exercise, along with sanctions imposed for parents who systematically violate child protection and judicial decisions. Serious growth also has the complaints in which people seek socio-economic protection of children because of poor quality of life, poor household conditions, lack of funds followed by complaints about children with disabilities, as well as those related to education, healthcare and violence against children. In his exhibition, the importer points out that parents are becoming increasingly sensitive with the children with the judiciary so far. Long deadlines, impossible court fees, insensitive judicial system are only part of the problems posed. The Ombudsman stressed that Bulgaria is the only EU country in which there is no law in line with modern standards for child and youth justice. A particularly important problem on which the importer focuses is the existence only in Bulgaria of the so-called specialized educational and social boarding schools. The report noted that this kind of boarding schools created an environment of violence which became the norm of behavior of children. Problems are the physical and social isolation of boarding schools, the deficit of prepared personnel, the attitudes of the local population. The Ombudsman recommends closing boarding schools in the interests of children's rights and interests. The report also highlights the role of sport for children's development and draws attention to signals indicating that in many children's institutions sports activities are offered by external companies for payment by parents. The request is made for physical education to become part of the full - time program of preschool and kindergarten teachers to be appointed in the kindergartens. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Mihail Hristov, Svetlana Naydenova, Yordan Yordanov and Slavcho Atanasov. Regarding the Ombudsman's findings relating to the violation of the rights of children with disabilities, the question was raised as to how much attention was paid to their ability to sport, as well as to the construction of sports sites for children with disabilities, which guarantees socialization and integration. The Ombudsman answered the questions and clarified that the active activity of the institution has an impact on the increased number of citizens who turn to it, but it is worrying that the problems identified in the 2015 report are repeated in 2016 and new ones are added. The members of the committee and the guests of the institutions have noted the progress made, as well as the existence of problems and have expressed their willingness to work together for better protection of children's rights. On the basis of the vote held with the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, the President of the Republic of Bulgaria proposed to the National Assembly a report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. No 739-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 May 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u11	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. The next report is from the Health Committee, which will be presented by Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 739-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 May 2017. At its regular meeting on 1 June 2017, the Health Committee examined and discussed a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health Prof. Dr. Nikolay Petrov, Mrs. Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Diana Kovacheva, Deputy Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, representatives of word organizations in the field of health, patient and non-governmental organizations. The activity report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 was presented by Mrs. Maya Manolova. The Ombudsman briefed the members of the Health Committee on the trends in the health sector found by his institution, contained in Chapter Six. Mrs. Manolova noted that there was an increase in the number of complaints by nearly 60% compared to 2015. Among the main problems is the limitation of the activities of medical institutions and, accordingly, the limitation of the access of citizens to health services. Another problem is the regulatory standards in pre-hospital medical care, with the majority of the regulations in 2016 being repealed by the court and this has led to the creation of regulatory chaos in the sector. The report concerned insufficient access to healing, palliative care and regulation of the use of alternative treatment methods. There is a need to improve the functioning of the Fund for the Treatment of Children. In the field of medicinal products, the weaknesses are related to the so-called parallel exports, the provision of vaccines and the acute need to redirect funds paid by the National Health Insurance Fund for medicinal products to hospital and hospital aid. Medical expertise should change the procedures related to the assessment of disability. The Ombudsman also focused on several more issues related to the right to health: human resources leaking from the national health system, medical errors and poor quality of health services, the need to adopt a Law on the protection of the rights of the patient and made the following specific recommendations: - to establish a lasting dialogue between the Parties in the healthcare process, with all important decisions and regulatory changes being made after reaching public agreement and consensus; - urgent measures should be taken to speed up the time for certification and re-certification of the citizens of TelK and NELK, including changes in both the Health Act and the regulations; - To discuss opportunities and to take action to pay with public funds of palliative care, as well as the healing and continued treatment in sufficient volume; - To be regulated legally accessible to citizens the possibility of conducting treatment using alternative medical methods; - Changes to drug policy, the Law on medicinal products in human medicine and regulation to prevent the lack and shortage of medicinal products in the pharmacy network, as well as to ensure the treatment of patients with medicinal products whose distribution within the country is suspended; - Changes to be adopted to allow timely listing and payment by the NHIF of new medicinal products and medical devices; - Optimize the procedure for the approval of payment by public means of medical devices used in children's operations so that it is accessible to parents; - Legislative settlement of an opportunity to conduct adequate and complete treatment for citizens who remain uninsured for a long period and who are not part of the social assistance system, as well as to extend the scope of unemployed persons who are provided at the expense of the state budget; - Provide sufficient resources to support assisted exploitation activities. The members of the Commission carried out an in-depth analysis of the submitted report, focusing on the additional payment by the patients, the non-payment by the NHIF of the excess activity of the medical institutions and access to medical care. Members of the National Assembly agreed that the report objectively reflects the state of the health system and informed Mrs. Manolova that the Health Act regulated unconventional treatment methods and that the existing legislation adequately regulates patients' rights and their protection. In conclusion, it was noted that the Ombudsman's recommendation on financing assisted reproduction activities has already been implemented by the government. On the basis of the discussion and the vote taken on the following results:.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. The next report belongs to the Committee on Education and Science. I provide the floor for the report to be presented. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I give your attention: ♪ I can't believe on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 739-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 May 2017. At its regular meeting on 7 June 2017, the Committee on Education and Science examined the Report on the activity of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 739-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 May 2017. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, and Mrs. Atanaska Mutafchieva, Chief Expert in the Department of Social Rights, Education, Health and Environment. The report on the Ombudsman's activities, in his part of education, was presented by Mrs Maya Manolova. The Ombudsman stressed that the past year is extremely important for education, given the entry into force of the Pre-school and School Education Act. In total, 186 complaints, alerts and open letters in this area were 32 percent more than the previous year. Following checks to protect the public interest, the Ombudsman made 25 recommendations, and 19 of them were taken into account, 2 were partially implemented and 1 action was not taken. The main problems have been identified: - limited access to childcare facilities and schools; - rules for admission to schools; - equal access to quality education; - status of the material base; - competitions for different academic positions. Problems in the field of secondary education repeat the topics of past years. There are still issues with the zoning of schools, the construction of new schools and the closure of schools. Overcoming issues related to restricted access in kindergartens with admission in schools, as well as the state of the material base, implies a greater role of municipalities. In the field of higher education, complaints concern student fees, scholarships and the quality of administrative service in higher schools. The following discussion was attended by the Members of the National Assembly: prof. Stanislav Stanilov, Milena Damyanova, Irena Anastasova, Assoc. Milen Mihov, Donka Simeonova, Nina Mitkova, Errol Mehmed. They expressed their approval of the Ombudsman's activities and made it very important to resolve the issue of child justice and, in particular, the closure of social pedagogical boarding schools and educational schools. It was stressed that alternative care and support for these children was needed. Only the closure of schools does not solve the problem, its overcoming can only happen with new child justice. It was said that until the quality of education in all schools is guaranteed, the problem of admission in schools will not be overcome. The MPs expressed satisfaction with the Ombudsman's great concern about education issues. After a vote with results: the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly the report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 739-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 May 2017. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. The last report provided is an opinion on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please submit the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! "COMMODITY" on a report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 739-02-3 submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 May 2017 At its meeting on 7 June 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 739-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 May 2017. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Maya Manolova The report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016 was presented by Mrs. Maya Manolova. The report contains six chapters dealing with the Ombudsman's activities on citizens and organisations, alerts and complaints. It shall also include statistical information on the number of files received and completed during the year, grouped according to the nature of the law concerned, information on the infringements detected and the number of complaints and alerts examined outside the Ombudsman's jurisdiction. The report contains the recommendations and proposals given to state authorities, citizens and organisations. The impact of the current regulation on human rights is analysed, taking into account international cooperation and presenting expenditure for 2016. The Ombudsman noted, as a success, the campaigns carried out over the past year which led to the limitation of the jurisdiction of arbitration courts with regard to consumer disputes, a reduction in the amount of legal advisory fees and an exemption from value added tax on donated food. The report contains the main objectives, recommendations and priorities in the area of children's rights, the protection of the rights of consumers and people with disabilities. The trend for increasing complaints and alerts relating to endangered or violated social rights shall be maintained and, for 2016, they are 88% more than those in 2015 and represent 13.43 per cent of the total number of complaints lodged during the year. With the highest growth compared to 2015, requests for assistance on issues related to the right to social aid, housing needs and pension rights stand out. The most important are complaints and complaints against public service providers, as well as violations of consumer rights, followed by complaints concerning social rights and violations of fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. The main complaints in complaints are the lack of a fair trial, infringement of enforcement proceedings, as well as the limitation of civil and political rights. There are specific complaints against the actions of the state and private judicial contractors related to the claims imposed by them on remuneration or pension and bank accounts on which non-secvestible income is transferred. Mrs. Manolova noted that the focus of her work was on complaints and signals of citizens and organizations in relation to the protection of the rights of the child and their promotion. Among the prevailing violations are maladministration and formalism in the actions of the child protection authorities, lack of sensitivity in the social and educational system to children's rights, practices that lead to negative impact on the welfare of children and lack of mechanisms for integrated approach between sectors. A significant place in the report is dedicated to the role of the Ombudsman as a National Preventive Mechanism for the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens, including visits to prisons, homes for raising and raising children, homes for people with mental disabilities, refugee centres and homes for old people. The Ombudsman pointed out that an essential part of his activities is related to monitoring the implementation of the forced administrative measures under the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria. In 2016, the Ombudsman addressed the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria with a request for the declaration of unconstitutionality of provisions in the Civil Procedure Code and the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code on the amount of the legal advisory remuneration in the legal proceedings, as well as a request for the declaration of unconstitution of art. 242a of the Election Code on the consequences of non-exercise of selective law. In 2016, the Ombudsman made proposals and recommendations for changes in the legal framework and preciseing of texts in the Civil Procedure Code, the Election Code, the Value Added Tax Act, the Social Security Code, the Law on Private Judicial Contractors, the Law on Crediting Students and Doctoral Students, the Waste Management Act, the Law on Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds, the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, the Family Aid Act of Children, the Law on Settlement of Rights of Citizens with Multiannual Housing-Serving Deposits, the Law on the Execution of Penalties and Detention. In the discussion of the report took part the MPs Filip Popov and Danail Kirilov, who expressed their support for the activity report submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016 and thanked for the social commitment and initiatives. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 19 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, No 739-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 May 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Honourable Members of Parliament, the presentation of the reports of the committees on the Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria is closed. I give Mrs. Maya Manolova the floor of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria to present the Report. Here you are, Mrs. Manolova. You will also honor us with a screening, as far as I can see.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the opportunity to present to you the 2016 Ombudsman's Work Report. This is the report. [[Shows the report.]] As much as my team and I have tried to make the most of it, we could not fit in under 230 pages, so now there are two options for presenting this report to me to begin reading it, which means that you will not have any concerns with the agenda next week, or to present a presentation that we have prepared together with my team. I would like to note in particular that the report, as well as the summary, which is in 72 pages, as quite rightly counted by Mr. Ademov during the meeting of the Social Committee, are available to all MPs. So if anyone is more interested in what we have done in different directions, we can read and, of course, Mrs. Diana Kovacheva and I are here to answer your questions. We're moving on to the presentation. The Ombudsman's institution in Bulgaria is relatively new, in fact the newest and youngest in Europe, has been working for 11 years. You are all aware that there are two predecessors - Mr. Guigno Ganev and Mr. Konstantin Penchev, whom I treat with great respect and respect. They laid the foundations of the institution. What I have tried to do is to seal all the powers and powers of the Ombudsman, to upgrade and change, as it were, four things. First of all, I tried to make the institution proactive, not just a train station for complaints, but an ombudsman in action, an ombudsman who is on the ground and confronts the problems of the citizens on the ground. I tried to make the institution absolutely transparent. I tried to gather enough expertise around the Ombudsman in the face of named lawyers, professionals, people with expertise. I work with the Advisory Constitutional Council, which includes top lawyers, representatives of the entire political and professional spectrum. On the individual topics I work with more than 150 NGOs who have very serious expertise. And fourth, which I consider most important, I have made efforts to make the institutions my allies. I say no because I am in front of you and not because I want to thank you for the good work in the interests of Bulgarian citizens, but also to admit the obvious. Yes, I work well with the executive, with the ministers, regular and official, with the various agencies, with the regional governors, with the mayors and all this is in the interests of the citizens. Thanks to this, taking into account 2016, I can do it with a single sentence for the Ombudsman 2016 was a year of action, but also a year of results. Because so I read, so I felt people's expectations, not only from an institution that is the last door to be knocked on, which is ready to hear them, to comfort them, but also an institution that is ready to solve problems, to stand behind them, to support them to the end and ultimately find a solution to their problem. Thus, thanks to the good interaction with the institutions, we were able to solve very specific cases, but we also completed several large-scale campaigns, which are in the interest of tens of thousands, I would say, to hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens. For example: we were able to close the parallel private judicial system that was functioning in the country and which was suing citizens. We have closed it for consumer disputes. It is about the so-called "Arbitrational Courts" that were suing behind their backs, even without informing them, citizens, even non-existent claims. We have succeeded, thanks to the cooperation of the Legal Commission, by lawmakers of all the colors that the Bill has introduced. I take this opportunity to thank those who were in the previous Parliament, and are now in the Legal Commission, and especially its President Mr. Kirilov for the well done work on this civil cause. We managed to fight and finalize the VAT dropout campaign on donated foods. This is also a very important campaign, which is in the interests of Bulgarian citizens, the poor and the hungry, those who do not have enough opportunities to feed their children fully. It is also in the interest of the Bulgarian food industry because the labor of food producers is not wasted. In the interests of society, I hope that it will very soon be in the interest of the state, because social tension, when there is support for the hungry people of Bulgaria, inevitably falls. We managed to do it together with the support of the Budget Committee in Parliament, of MPs of all colors and, of course, of the finance minister. I have promised and I can't help but realize that without the financial ministry's blessing, such a campaign cannot be finalised. So I explicitly thank MPs who are not in this Parliament, in the face of Mr. Slavov and Mr. Martin Dimitrov, who submitted the legislative proposals. In fact, with this campaign we upgraded the Easter campaign for everyone, which is the only national campaign aimed at Bulgarian pensioners. Yesterday I received a very touching letter from an elderly woman, an ex-teacher who is retired, receiving a minimum pension, which tells me that she was not expecting at all and is really happy that she received a food voucher in the framework of this campaign. I congratulate you on your determination to take action to increase the incomes of Bulgarian citizens and, first and foremost, the Bulgarian pensioners. They need the support of all institutions and more respect and empathy in society. In this year, I use to inform you, we continue the campaign with another one, which we have named conditionally "Donate" which is already aimed at Bulgarian households because 670 000 tonnes of food are destroyed in Bulgaria every year! 670,000 tons, and only 250! Not 250 000, but 250 tons, with two thirds of this food being spilled out by the Bulgarian households, from all of us who do not respect food enough, we buy, we throw away while there are people who are starving both them and their families. Another important campaign was aimed at the arbitrariness of the monopolies in Bulgaria. I have nothing to brag about here, because the battle is serious, I would say uneven, but once again what I have achieved is thanks to Parliament's support. We reduced the legal fees six times, thereby reducing the allowances on one debt in court and in private judicial execution six times. If until now the ERPs charged 3 times 300 for their legal counsels, with which one debt increased by 1000 BGN, now the maximum they can do is 3 times 50, which is a 150 discount six times. And the campaign in our hands is about the rights of Bulgarian children, but I will talk about it later. These are actually pό large-scale campaigns, but if I have to say what the most significant results are, I have to make the agreement that for each individual citizen who has turned to me for support and assistance, the most important, the most important problem is his problem and the biggest victory is in case we have managed to help his problem to be solved. And for me and for my team, the biggest victory is the change in attitude towards the institution. If until yesterday it was said that the Ombudsman had no authority and nothing depends on him, it is not today. I have lived to hear in one of the parliamentary committees that it seems that the Ombudsman has too many powers and should be reviewed from the point of view of their cutting. Of course, MPs are in your right, but what I wanted to show is that an institution looks and works as the people who are in it work. Now is the time to thank my team, with which we have really made a great effort. In fact, one of the criteria for trust in the institution is the increased number of complaints. Maybe now is the time to talk to numbers. Last year, the growth of complaints compared to 2015 was exactly 74%. 10 640 complaints and alerts were received at the institution against 6202 in 2015, of which 9675 were closed against 5250 in 2015. That is, we do not just receive and collect complaints and signals from citizens, but work on the case files and pronounce ourselves, solve cases in time. 17 362 people have been accepted and consulted in the Ombudsman's reception room, of which 1109 have met with me personally, and several hundred people have met with the Deputy Ombudsman, who also has one reception day every week. Either 27,037 people sought assistance and assistance from the institution and received it, with a complaint, with a letter, with a visit to the reception room or with a call on the hotline, which is 12 000 more than 2015. As I made a commitment to those of you who took part in my choice, I have fully done the work of the institution on the ground, and we have carried out 27 exported receptions, of which, for example, in all municipalities in Montana, a special focus on the Northwest. We also conducted the first thematic receptions. One of the problems of the capitalists with the Toplofika, which included more than 250 people. A specialized reception room for children's problems in Pernik, where more than 35 people participated. We raised important topics for public discussion for Bulgarian citizens, discussing them at 18 round tables and public discussions with the participation of all responsible institutions, experts and, of course, civil organisations. We have prepared four special reports on important topics, three of which we have submitted to the National Assembly a report on the problems of children in conflict with the law and specialized boarding schools, which was available to the previous parliament, a special Report on the unaccompanied refugee children and a Report on the problems of citizens with the heating companies. Unfortunately, the previous National Assembly failed in its mandate to consider these important topics. As a result of what we have done, we have made 840 recommendations to different institutions, to the administration central and local. The statistic is positive: every second recommendation of the Ombudsman has been implemented by the institutions concerned. We have written and sent to the relevant institutions 5176 opinions, and in 447 specific cases we have brokered between the countries to successfully solve the specific cases. Maybe I should point out a problem. The number of complaints that are traditionally reported as inadmissible is still serious, i.e. related to topics outside the Ombudsman's authority. However, we have tried, even though we have no authority in these cases, to pay attention to anyone who has approached us, and if we cannot help him with anything else, to give him advice on how he could seek a solution to his problem. In Top 5s of complaints against violations of citizens' rights, first of all are rights of consumers, problems of citizens with monopoly companies. Last year we worked on 3138 complaints and signals. There's a 100% increase in these complaints. The second place is the social rights of citizens, where there is also nearly 100 percent growth - 1429 complaints on labour and social rights against 761 in 2015. Third, the violations related to the right to property of the citizens are. 1169 vs. 889. Fourth, complaints relating to fundamental rights and freedoms. Fifthly, complaints related to poor administrative service at both central and local level. In the Top 6s of the consumer rights slide, the highest number of complaints are expected against the heating companies.. 886, against mobile operators.. 531, against the electricity supply companies.. 503, against the water supply companies... 422, against banks and financial institutions... 322. In 2016, I made four requests to the Constitutional Court. I think this proves that the concerns of some of the MPs involved in my choice were unfounded, as the biggest concern was whether I would not abuse this power of mine and send many legislative decisions to the Constitutional Court. I've only done it on four occasions and I think with the approval of the MPs from all parliamentary groups. My first constitutional complaint was a sign on the protection of producers of homemade brandy, a claim to restore justice to the small against the big ones because it was the legislative decision. The Constitutional Court refused to rule on it on the grounds that I have no right to defend sole traders, as are the producers of brandy. Thank you for complying with my insistence, and on a proposal from the Patriotic Front, this injustice has been corrected, so things have come to pass. Another important complaint was that of the legal advisor's remuneration. I lost the battle at the Constitutional Court, but I won in parliament. Thank you, because together we changed the law and the legal consul fees were reduced six times. There were two complaints about texts from the Election Code relating to the right to vote of our countrymen abroad. Meanwhile, parliament itself changed the texts, so one complaint turned out to be pointless. On the other hand, I think that you were all relieved when the Constitutional Court annulled the penalty in the event of a mandatory vote, namely the removal from the electoral lists. I think this is something that did not anyway correspond to the idea of parliament to increase voter turnout by introducing a mandatory vote. Now, depending on how long you last to listen, I will go telegraphly on the individual topics... the subject of the institution's work.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u19	Parliament is tough, Mrs. Manolova, come on in. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u20	Children's rights were my top priority in 2016, which I continue this year. I accept my mission to protect the rights of Bulgarian children, not just as a legislative and constitutional mandate, not just as a legal commitment, but as a cause in which a lot of time should be devoted, a lot of effort, a lot of expertise, a lot of work with NGOs and various institutions. That's what we did with my team in 2016. I will allow myself to mention only the larger problems that we have faced and which were the subject of complaints to the institution. Complaints related to children's rights have increased three times: from 103 pieces in 2015 to 297 last year, which is related to the special emphasis that we put with my team on children's rights. For my problems, I'm referred to as parents, educators, children. First of all are problems related to child poverty, inequalities in society, which is no surprise to you. There are many complaints of children about parental conflicts. Parents' divorces and parental rights battles make children suffer. In this regard, I supported the efforts of the Social Ministry and together we developed a proposal for amendments to the Family Code, where we proposed to introduce shared parenthood. Unfortunately, the previous parliament did not have time to finalise these texts, but I very much hope that they will stay on the attention of this Parliament. Children with disabilities, the families of disabled children who have chosen the difficult mission to take care of their children themselves, and not just leave them in an institution, must really be supported. We are currently working together on the drafting of texts of the Personal Aid Act because assistant care in the way they have been settled in Bulgaria for the last 10, 15, 20 years is very unfair to the families of children with disabilities. A child needs care not from a program program and from a project project, but from continuous care and support of the family for it. Complaints related to the education and health of children were also the subject of my attention. I will allow myself to say just one sentence relating to children's rights in education. The problems are repeated from 2015 to 2016 and are waiting for the intervention of the institutions, starting from the violence and aggression in school and reaching the reception of the first graders. Rules must indeed be imposed to be respected by everyone, to be fair, not to give the impression that the rules work only in the interests of some. We have made a lot of efforts to support children in the healthcare system. We've got a lot done. A negative example of how problems should not be solved is the problem of children with impaired hearing, children with cochlear implants. After that, I was one of the ruling majority, of the opposition, then the ombudsman, I was probably ten health ministers. I think now, at last, it is time for this absolutely fair question for children and families to be resolved. I would like to say a few words on the topic of Monopoly and the battle of citizens against the abuse of monopolies. Speaking of which, the first one's a Toplofication. I have done and have used all my powers and all my legal powers to keep this company, figuratively speaking, in his dealings with the centenarians. I met with all the responsible institutions, held a public discussion, made an open reception on the issues of the "Toplofication", wrote a special report with specific recommendations which I sent to the responsible institutions and submitted to the Parliament, held meetings with the responsible parliamentary committees. The Energy Committee and the KEWRC Monitoring Commission, wrote a complaint to the Constitutional Court, to the Supreme Court of Cassation, to the Supreme Administrative Court, met with the European Commissioner for Consumer Protection and with that on energy issues I did everything in my power. I participated several times in meetings of the Sofia Municipal Council, which is the principal of this company. After all, all these efforts proved virtually ineffective. Of course, there are small victories. In cases where he will refer them to a court, he will take the problem to a court of law. We also reduced legal advisory fees, which were a serious burden for citizens. However, general problems can be solved with legislative changes, so in the conditions of a working group, together with the Ministry of Energy, we continue to work on them and will soon be presented to Parliament's attention. Whether in time "Topplofication" was state, as it was in the period 2005 - 2009, or municipal, as it is then, the problems are the same - it is a company that enjoys institutional and political comfort regardless of who manages. Among consumers' rights, secondly, complaints against mobile operators. They've grown more than twice. This suffers mostly the elderly who are sold to them without understanding, expensive mobile internet, or their phone numbers are included in SMS games. Topics we're working on that we haven't been able to deal with yet. Citizens' power problems. I would just like to point out that the forthcoming real liberalisation of the energy market is also a challenge to parliament. I already have the first cases of scammers.. electricity vendors on the free market. You are also more aware than I am that vulnerable consumers need special legal support. The rights of citizens related to water supply, you know price, quality, but also the fact that in the 21st century in Bulgaria there are still settlements, and large ones, where people are in water mode.Sevlievo, separate neighborhoods of Troyan, settlements in the Rhodopes. I'll skip the complaints in transport.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u21	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u22	They stand the attention of parliament, some of them were resolved. For example, my proposal to introduce a one-day bill was also accepted, which is good. We have made numerous recommendations without results on the subject of waste collection. It is postponed and it is postponed to resolve the issue of the collection of the waste charge, according to the amount of waste discarded, although the parliament, even while I was a Member of the Parliament, made this legal change. I hope this happens in the coming years. I can't help but say a few words about the collector companies. Some of the complaints are directed against this industry. Here the problems are clear. Citizens are not informed that their debt has been sold. Power primos are still used in debt collection, and often sold and collected debts that have long been repaid by limitation. There will have to be changes here, for example, to prohibit companies providing public services from selling their customers' obligations to collector companies. The theme of financial services, with banks and fast credit companies should also be based on your attention, because there are numerous complaints from citizens. I, for example, as a former MP, lived with the idea that we have put order in the fast credit sector. There were such legislative changes in 2013. It turned out that this was an illusion because a real part of the companies simply did not comply with these rules, nor the notorious APR an annual rate of expenditure. All fees shall be charged for the provision of a guarantor or other imaginary services. After all, the citizens are loaded. I have tabled legislative proposals relating to private contractors and banks. I'm using to say it here, even though his place is further behind the report, because I can see now that the more active MPs are watching their watches, I must have gone too far over time. I thank the Legal Commission for the demonstrated determination during yesterday's meeting to organise a forum to address these problems to Bulgarian citizens. Just to remind you that Bulgaria is in procedure for the famous art. 417. There must also be some changes here, depending on what majority is gathered. And as far as private contractors are concerned, beyond the legislative changes that are already the subject of your attention, I would like to present an idea from this tribune. Given the fact that private court contractors collect, according to their data, about a billion and a half claims per year and form about a hundred thousand cases, consider only: 108 BGN. is the start-up fee for the proceedings and you are aware how the rates for the collection of larger debts are going. It would be right, in my opinion, because they perform a state function assigned to them by the Bulgarian State, the important function of executing judicial decisions, also to be included in the list of persons declaring their property to be clear about what kind of... [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Yeah, why not? In order to be clear, as there is publicity and transparency for all those in the state who perform state functions, what property they have should happen. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Okay, anyway, this is my team's offer as a result of the work we're doing. The topic of social rights was presented in detail during the meeting of the Social Committee. And right now, citizens' labour rights, late wages, unpaid salaries are the subject of a special committee discussion. I very much hope around the proposals, or around an improved version of them, that MPs of all colors will unite, because the problems of the people of the labor in Bulgaria related to non-payment and late wages are very serious. I give the last example of mine, which is the third time I am personally in the mine. Thanks to the state's intervention and the unification of the efforts of all institutions, I am now optimistic and the miners are optimistic that things will be resolved. But the Council of Ministers should have included the executive, the Prosecutor's Office, which entered the enterprise with a group together with the Ministry of Interior, DANS, NRA, so that the people who regularly receive their miserable salaries for 600 BGN. Working underground, there was a work accident a week ago... In other words, this is an example of how when institutions are united, people in Bulgaria feel protected. Right to education, right to health care, right to a healthy and favourable environment, right to property, good governance and good administration, fair trial and protection in enforcement proceedings. The National Preventive Mechanism, in fact, is responsible, apart from everything I've defined, for the prisons, for the psychiatry, for the elderly's homes, for the investigative arrests, for the arrests in the Ministry of Interior's system, for the refugee centers, for the unaccompanied children. On these issues, we have prepared a special report which we have submitted at the end of the previous parliament, which we are ready to submit again and which I hope will be of the attention of the individual specialised committees. Legislative proposals. You are aware that last year we made 11 recommendations and proposals for amendments to laws that concern exclusively and mainly the rights of Bulgarian citizens. In fact, so is my right to an indirect legislative initiative in the event of violated and protected rights, the Ombudsman makes proposals and recommendations for changes in legislation through the President of Parliament, or through the Prime Minister. For the first time this year we have included a special chapter in the report, which was prepared under the leadership of the Deputy Ombudsman Mrs. Diana Kovacheva, which is related to the implementation in Bulgaria of the key conventions on human rights and the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. For those of you who are interested, everything is described in detail. The international activity of the ombudsman is part of nearly ten international, European and global organizations and we are developing serious international activities, as support for citizens' rights is a cause and an important topic of most European institutions. I'm done. The assessment of my work is in your hands. I expect with great attention and with great respect your opinions, recommendations, criticisms, because despite everything we have tried to do last year, we have the ambition to become better and better at protecting citizens. I very much hope that we will work well together, as in the previous Parliament. I didn't thank the media. Thanks to them we announced and showed many problems to citizens and it became practically clear that the first, second, third and fourth authorities in Bulgaria can work together for a cause when they have a crossing point. This intersection is the rights of the Bulgarian citizens, the cause of the Ombudsman, the section between all authorities, and the rights of the citizens are part of democracy for which you and I have our responsibilities. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. I'm opening the debate. To speak, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u24	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ombudsman! I take the floor in order to express no assessment of this statement, I do not think that this statement should sound like an evaluation, but the full collegiate support which, as a lawyer and as a member of the Legal Committee, should be expressed in relation to the efforts of the Ombudsman and the team, which is actually the Ombudsman institution. It is certainly clear that a wide range of activities has been carried out. It is certainly that much of the events and actions have produced the desired effect. I would say that a benefit has been achieved in protecting citizens' rights. I believe that we must assess and support these efforts and wish the Ombudsman and the following annual reports to have so many facts, circumstances, achievements to report to the National Assembly. I took the liberty of asking for the first floor because in 2016, the Ombudsman was very intensively burdened by the Committee on Legal Affairs, which, in turn, reacted, I would say, adequately and cooperatively with regard to legislative initiatives. Here I confirm, without showing any interinstitutional or political jealousy, we believe that when an idea, concept or thesis deserves support, we should not fight, compete for a championship whose idea is the idea and who will then report the benefits to the citizens, to the voters, to the audience. As they say, when there's success, there's a lot of fathers. The failure, however, is the only one responsible. [[Radio.]] For this reason, we will continue to collegially interact on the initiatives, no matter when we show more nervousness, when we think we are cutting the agenda or priorities, but this is legal work that should be done. In order not to praise the Ombudsman too much, I will stop here and wish success, meaningful efforts to both Mrs. Maya Manolova and the entire team of colleagues who work. When working with heart and soul, results are achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Atanasov, please excuse me for not pointing you in the first place.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Parliament, Dear Mrs Manolova! I always thought a person would do the job. I believe that the position you currently hold is appropriate for you. The older MPs remember your hyperactivity in parliament. Well, my opinion is that sometimes you salt the food, but especially for the position you currently hold, this activity of yours is extremely useful. I always thought that if you would be a politician, if you would, especially for your position, it is very important to be open to people. And the truth is that you are doing this and the facts show it I am very carefully interested in your work. I will say just one fact: in 2015, when you had not taken over this post, the citizens who were personally accepted by the Ombudsman were 330 for 2015. For 2016, for which you make your report, you have personally accepted 1109 citizens and in over 60 settlements you have made exported admissions. Personally, in my constituency, the Plovdiv region, you've been five times. Five times you have come to Plovdiv, which is extremely commendable and you have held meetings with the Plovdiv citizens, where I am a representative from this constituency. In this respect, I strongly support you. I appreciate your activity. You work very well with non-governmental organizations, you work well with the MPs, that is indisputable. I have no questions for you, as most of the things we have asked you in the Commission and do not need to say any more from the National Assembly's stand. I will personally support your report. And just one recommendation to you: something you say in 34 minutes, you can say it in 10 minutes, you know. Thank you. [[Radio.]] Here you go, Dr. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u27	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Parliament, Dear Mrs Manolova! We have argued with colleagues, more or less, the powers of the Ombudsman. We have argued that the powers of the Ombudsman Institution are as much as the ambitions of the person who manages this institution. Congratulations on the presentation and the report! You will also allow me to say a few words about what you have done in the field of healthcare. We are definitely impressed by the fact that there are four questions of the Constitutional Court, and I am talking in principle about all areas and sectoral policies and ten indirect legislative initiatives. As far as health care is concerned, the growth of the people who approached you is 60% more than the previous year. Quite truthfully and correctly you have identified the main problems in the sector that you know and as a person who worked in the Health Committee. They are: poor access and lack of equal access on the territory of the country; quality that is below the standards of good medical practice; problems with the treatment of children - extremely serious supplementary payments in the field of health; requests for changes in drug policy; problems with funds that are funded by public funds. For the first time in a report by the Ombudsman, it is mentioned that there are calls for both patients' rights to be violated in the system and for impaired rights to workers in the system, because patients have rights, they also have obligations because, for example, patients have an obligation to be health-secure, have an obligation to go to preventive examinations and to live healthy. Congratulations on having another accent in your report. I have made my remark regarding one of your recommendations for rethinking the idea of regulation, i.e. making regulation of non-traditional treatment methods. Then I asked a question, most likely you will be looking for an answer, what is the purpose of this recommendation to get the witches to pay taxes or equalize the psychics and those who apply unconventional methods with the people who have studied and practiced traditional medicine. I'm finishing by congratulating you on the report and the presentation. I wish you to be yourself this is your place! I wish you much energy to protect the interests of Bulgarian citizens! We will support this report, and we will be sure. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u28	Thank you, Dr. Jaffer. To speak, Mrs. Nino. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, we will also support the Ombudsman's report. Mrs. Manolova, Mrs. Kovacheva and your entire team: accept our respect and support for what you are doing. I would put it in three words and they are content, trust and results. You have given content to the ombudsman institution, we have significantly increased the trust of Bulgarian citizens in the institution and, of course, it also has its results. However, honourable Members, the high appreciation that we all give to this activity and content in the work of the Ombudsman Institution is also a challenge to us - whether we respond actively enough and meaningfully to the institution's proposals for legislative changes, because we should not leave these efforts without doing our job. Much greater would be the result if we reacted more quickly and more adequately to Mrs. Manolova's proposals. And I call on you from now on to be a little more active in this responsibility and in these functions of legislators. I hope the conversation about powers and their cutting is a joke. Mrs. Manolova, if this were the case, you should know that she will not allow it to happen in this Parliament. So work calmly with the same energy and enthusiasm. You have our support and respect. Good luck from now on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u30	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Mrs. Georgieva from the Volya Party and then Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u31	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mrs Manolova! Regarding everything we have heard about the annual report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, I would like to congratulate Mrs. Manolova on the work well done. Perhaps for the first time since its existence, the role of Ombudsman acquires real image and authority. We are pleased that she has accepted our proposals for amendments to the GPC regarding the work of private judicial contractors. We have had the opportunity to exchange ideas and we believe that society will welcome the outcome. However, on the other hand, the tens of thousands of complaints reported by the people who seek Mrs. Manolova as the last aid authority do not speak well about the work of all other institutions. So this report is rather worrying. The vast army of civil servants are either out of place, or there is apparent incompetence, or the control of the work is missing. I have bothered to look at the annual accounts of ombudsmen in some other larger European countries. I assure you, complaints from both executive and local authorities are considerably less. We of Volja do want the administration to be a servant of the people, not the other way around. We don't want to see any loose ends at one institution or any other state enterprise, hanging people out at the counters, asking for bribes and whatnot. We cannot expect the Ombudsman to solve the problems of 7 million people. This report speaks of Mrs. Manolova's enormous efforts, which is commendable, but unfortunately is also a mirror of a poor functional state management system. I believe that the work of politicians will be done when fewer people are looking for the help of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. To speak, Mr. Ibryamov of the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Manolova! I join those who are negotiating that this report is sufficiently bulky, comprehensive and clear. As you have named the Year of the Ombudsman, I would add: this is, perhaps, the year of the citizens, of the Bulgarian citizens, of the dissatisfied citizens, because the report shows that there is a serious increase in complaints of people who have sought help from you on various issues. Do not take my speech as criticism, but, as I said in the Commission, as a recommendation. I'm very interested in what this height is due to. I am interested in the reason, the content itself, whether this growth is due to really the discontent of the citizens and what this discontent is born of, because it is evident that you are a hyperactive person, and your team, there is growth in the complaints submitted, submitted foster and so on. The second thing that I would like to draw attention to is that I will follow the next report with interest, because no religious ethnic complaints have been mentioned anywhere, and examples can be pointed out much from both this and last year's and previous years. And this is very important and we, as the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, are very sensitive to this topic. And the third, which is also commendable, you note that for the first time in the report there is Chapter 3 which is related to the European conventions and their implementation in accordance with the Bulgarian legislation, but nowhere in the report is there a sufficiently reasoned statement whether our legislation is really brought into line with these conventions, especially by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe. Perhaps this is the most important topic, a topic that requires clear and clear speech, because at the moment, in the times we live in both the Balkans and Europe, and in the world with the widespread acts of terrorism, the language of hate, perhaps this convention is the most important and must be the most important in your next report. Consider, again, my statement as a recommendation for your work. Indeed, as DPS, we will support your report and wish you both success and your entire team success. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u35	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I propose a procedure for naming the persons present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u36	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Please give us a list of names.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u37	Name check. Please, colleagues, raise your hand. Adlen Shukri Shevked - here Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - absent Alexander Dimitrov Manolev - absent Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov - here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddy - here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Angel Iliev Isaev - here Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Dinev Todorov - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - here Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Bogdan Emilov Botsev - here Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Burhan Ilyazov Abase - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Georgiev Lambev - absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - here Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - here Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Zheleva - here Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Vasileva - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov - here Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - here Georgi Kolev Kolev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - here Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Jekova Taneva - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Donka Dimova Simeonova - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Errol Osman Mehmed - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivaylo Lubenov Konstantinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimov Ivanov - here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Kirov Genov - absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - absent Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - here Yordan Apostolicov - absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - here Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - here Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska - here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - here Krastina Nikolova Taskova - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here So far, we've got a quorum, we're continuing the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u38	In addition they signed up: Alexander Paunov and Georgi Andreev. I vote on the draft decision on the report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 22, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the activity of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. Please vote. They voted 190 MPs: for 190, against and abstention there is no. [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The report was adopted unanimously. We continue with the next item on the agenda: ANNUAL COMMISSION REPORT ON THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA ON HER ACTION IN 2016 For the procedure please, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the working hours of today's plenary session until the discussion and vote on item three of the agenda that was launched in yesterday's plenary session. The committees' reports were heard, the opinion of the importer was presented, but the debate had not started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u40	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 186 MPs: 113, against 58, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, by the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, allow Mr Tsonko Tsolov to be a member of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. Due to an official commitment in Brussels, the President of the Commission Ventsislav Karadjov is absent.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u42	We're not gonna let him in anyway. I put to the vote the proposal made by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Plamen Nunev. Vote 175 MPs: 163, against 2, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Please invite the face to the room. Before we start with the report, Mr. Nunev, honourable colleagues, our guests are young people from the town of Haskovo. [[Applause.]] You have the floor, dear Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the annual report of the Commission on the protection of personal data for its activities in 2016, No 720-00-4, submitted by the Commission for the protection of personal data on 26 May 2017. At its regular meeting on 31 May 2017, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Annual Report of the Commission on Personal Data Protection for its activities in 2016, No 720-00-4, submitted by the Personal Data Protection Commission on 26 May 2017. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Commission for Personal Data Protection: Ventsislav Karadzhov, President of the Commission, and Desislava Nikolova, Secretary-General. The report was presented by Ventsislav Karadzhov. In 2016, the information and communication electronic systems that have facilitated and alleviated citizens and businesses have been improved and have reduced the administrative and bureaucratic burden on the activities of personal data controllers. Administrative electronic services shall be provided through the website of the electronic government. In 2016, 6176 new personal data controllers were entered. With them, the total number of administrators entered in the register is 284 592. The Commission has examined and delivered an administrative act on 430 complaints. During the reporting period, a total of 650 complaints were received by the Commission, 220 of which were on the basis of the election made in the past year for President and Vice President of the Republic and national referendum. The total amount of penalties imposed during the accounting year is BGN 366 500. The Commission, as a supervisory authority, on the retention and access to traffic data under the Law on Electronic Communications has reported a request for access to traffic data in total 73 326, which is a 32% reduction compared to the previous year, and the cases in which it could not have responded to a request for the provision of traffic data are 2783, which is a four-fold increase compared to the previous year. The reduction in requests for access to traffic data, as well as the four-fold increase in cases of failure to provide information, are the result of increased legal requirements for competent authorities, as well as increased judicial review after 31 March 2015. In short, the objectives and priorities were presented in 2017 related to the introduction of the new European legal framework and the synchronization of national legislation in relation to the public and private sectors, as well as to the People's representatives Krasimir Yankov, Todor Baychev, Dimitar Stoyanov, Veselin Mareshki and Tsvetan Tsvetanov took part in the debates. With regard to the implementation of the new legal framework in the EU in the area of personal data protection, the President of the Commission Tsvetan Tsvetanov proposed that the Commission for Personal Data Protection should submit for prior discussion to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee the main proposals for legislative changes to be discussed at the level of working groups. The motion has been accepted. As a result of the debates held, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee unanimously supported the submitted Annual Report of the Commission on Personal Data Protection in 2016, No 720-00-4, submitted by the Personal Data Protection Commission on 26 May 2017, and proposed to the National Assembly the following draft decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting the Annual Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for its activities in 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 6 of the Personal Data Protection Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Commission's Annual Report on the Protection of Personal Data for its Activity in 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. On behalf of the importers, none. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members! There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the draft decision which was presented to you by the MP Plamen Nunev from the parliamentary tribune. Please vote. They voted 106 MPs: for 104, there are no abstentions 2. The draft decision has been adopted, with this also the Commission's report. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE CONCESSION LAW, No 754-01-13. He was introduced by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017. There is a report from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mr. Vigenin, please submit the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u45	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on concessions No 754-01-13, submitted by Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017. At a meeting held on 7 June 2017, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on concessions, No 754-01-13, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017. The Commission's meeting was attended by Ms. Anna Alexandrova, Member of the National Assembly and an importer, as well as Mrs. Marieta Germanska, Director of the Economic and Social Policy Directorate in the Administration of the Council of Ministers, and Ms. Mariana Slavkova, State Expert in the same Directorate. This Bill aims to harmonise national regulations with the requirements of Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts. The directive is part of the EU legislative package for reforming Community law in the field of public procurement and concessions, together with Directive 2014/24/EU on public procurement and Directive 2014/25/EU on procurement by sectoral contracting entities. The scope of Directive 2014/23/EU includes activities, so far regulated in the Bulgarian legislation by two separate legal acts, the Law on concessions and the Law on Public-Private Partnership (PPP). For its part, the importer has adopted an approach to adopting a completely new Law on concessions, which will unite the existing LCs and the LPDs, and in addition, it is envisaged to amend 28 laws, which contain provisions relating to concessions, in order to terminologically align the texts and create prerequisites for the implementation of the new law. The bill envisions the functions of the concession holder to be taken over by the ministers and by the mayors of municipalities, while the previous conces "the Council of Ministers and the municipal council, respectively, only to approve the main acts relating to the award and execution of concessions. The draft law also introduces a distinction between the types of concessions, according to their subject matter, for construction, for services and for the use of state and municipal property. The first two types are explicitly referred to by Directive 2014/23/EU and the concession institute for use is maintained in national law in order to implement the norm of art. 18, para. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The requirements of Directive 2014/23/EU are only applicable to the so-called concessions of interest for works and service concessions of a value equal to or greater than 5 million. Two hundred and fifty-five thousand. At the same time, the proposed Bill aims to settle the rules on concessions falling under this threshold, i.e. concessions without cross-border interest, to which concessions for use fall. Unlike Directive 2014/24/EU on public procurement, Directive 2014/23/EU does not provide for specific procedures for the award of concessions regardless of their value. Member States should settle this in their national legislation, taking into account the principles laid down in art. 3 of the Directive: equality, non-discrimination and transparency. In this regard, the bill sets out three types of procedures for the award of the concession, open procedure, competitive procedure with negotiation and competitive dialogue, and the latter two provide the possibility of more flexibility for contracting authorities. It should be borne in mind that the time limit for transposition of Directive 2014/23/EU expired on 18 June 2016. For failure to harmonise its legislation within a period of time against Bulgaria, an infringement procedure has been opened, which is currently at the stage of reasoned opinion, the final stage of the pre-trial phase under art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union prior to the referral to the Court of Justice of the European Union. For their part, the importer and the representatives of the Council of Ministers said that the proposed Bill correctly transposed Directive 2014/23/EU. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 2 votes for the European Parliament and 4 votes for the National Assembly not to adopt in the first vote the Law on concessions, No 754-01-13, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. This was the seventh report of ten such, distributed to ten committees. We have no reports from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, from the Committee on Budget and Finance and from the Committee on Culture and Media. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u47	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! During the discussion of the Draft Law on concessions in the National Assembly's committees, it became clear that one of the colleagues importing the bill did not know its content and the reasons for it. In this sense, they declared themselves co-owners of the Bill. My proposal is specifically for the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, whose policy is based on this Bill to invite him to attend during the debates to discuss the bill here in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. I'll be in touch with the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u49	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is the first very serious Bill that the Forty-fourth National Assembly has to discuss. Unfortunately, discussions are not at the necessary level. The draft was submitted on 30 May 2017 after lunch at the National Assembly's Office and a few hours later examined by the Legal Commission without its members having any time to get to know him or the Directive that he should transpose. [[Noise and lines.]] Naturally, this is a bill that has its parliamentary history, and I understand that many of my colleagues know it from a previous National Assembly. But this does not excuse the fact that we should all look at it in sufficient detail because it affects a huge part of the Bulgarian economy, from the remainder of Bulgarian wealth. It is also strange that in the last parliament the same bill was tabled by the Council of Ministers. It was voted by the plenary and now, under the same bill and practically the same Council of Ministers, it was tabled by a group of MPs. There is no clear political responsibility behind this bill. The committees were attended by directors of the Directorate of the Council of Ministers. Our respect for them and their work, but they are not political individuals who can give their backs. And today, this tendency to blur and escape from political responsibility continues. I assure you, colleagues, there was no need for tricks to count the people in this room. We had no intention of stopping this debate, nor of preventing it, we are ready for it. You counted us in the hall so you could go out and do more important work. You must have one.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u50	Please, on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u51	But this is not the way to look at something in which deadlines are set by tens of years ahead. And I'm really moving on to the Bill. It is said that the Bill is quick and necessary because it transposes a directive of the European Parliament, which we are late to introduce into our legislation and for which we are facing a criminal procedure, a possible case before the court in Luxembourg. This is indeed so late, indeed such a procedure is underway, but it is underway because the directive in question had to be transposed April last year. We're more than a year late. I don't know why one or two weeks more for discussions would have tilted the scales much in one direction or another. And let's see if this bill really brings this directive to fruition. Directive 2014/23 of the European Parliament and of the Council...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u52	Mr. Zarkov, excuse me for a moment. Members of the National Assembly, please take their seats in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u53	May I continue?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u54	We're waiting for them to take their seats. [[Noise and lines.]] Thank you. Proceed, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u55	Directive 2014/23 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which is, by the way, from the distant already 2014, must be implemented and we would support the legal provisions that will save Bulgaria humiliation and much money, even more on the eve of the Bulgarian Presidency. However, it concerns two types of concessions: for works and for the award of services, while the Law on concessions proposed by importers also concerns a third type: the award of a concession for the use of public state or public municipal property. Article 1, para. Art. 2, Art. 6, para. 2 et c. 3 of this bill affects a range that goes far beyond the relevant directive. Moreover, the European Union directive explicitly excludes this type of concessions from its action. Quoting: "It should not be regarded as concessions within the meaning of this Directive which are subject to the right of an economic operator to exploit certain sites or resources which are public property, such as land or any public property, in particular in the maritime or inland ports sector or the airport sector................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It is about concessions for dedication, and there lies, in our opinion, its main weakness. Time limits. Let us see whether this directive has been properly implemented in the Bulgarian legislation through this Bill in a very sensitive one for all, you know, a question, namely how long our state can lend to use either for construction or for services its property to a private operator. This is set out in art. 34 of the Law, which should bring into the Bulgarian legislation art. 18 of the directive. I don't know if you've had time to get acquainted with this directive, because the bill came to your banks very quickly, but let's see art. 18. Article 34 of the Bill rewrites verbatim art. 18 of the Directive, except for one sentence. The sentence that did not find a place in the Bill is: You're saying the previous concession bill was bad. It is, and we are ready to review it in the light of European legislation. But if there was one dignity that Law, it was that it fixed the upper threshold of concessions for up to 35 years. Now that threshold is gone. This will become the subject of a debate, I am sure that there are guarantees to limit the deadline, but they are not enough. The decision of the National Assembly for a term that can go up to a thousand years is actually, ladies and gentlemen, a decision of the majority. Last but not least, there is a presidential veto imposed on this same bill. And yes, it doesn't bind this legislation, but that doesn't make it nonexistent. The veto was somehow so, rejected lightly, it was conjunctural, it was political. I don't know how you define this veto, but it is the constitutional authority of the President of the Republic. And the fact that you not only do not accept it, but do not discuss it, there is not a word in the motives themselves or in the discussions on the committees on this veto, makes us think that its arguments can hardly be refuted. And not only that. We're in a hurry, aren't we? I ask the defenders and importers of this bill to take account of the relevant veto at least because the presidential institution must hear your arguments against the veto, otherwise it should repeat it, as nothing in the bill has changed and I do not see why the presidency will change its attitude towards it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u56	Tell him to say it again.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u57	Finally, it is quite unpleasant and harmful to Bulgaria as a whole when we are importing a bill that is obviously unholy even for the government itself, which is half-mouthed to defend it, to justify it with Brussels. This technique that, you see, we are doing something bad, but that is because Brussels wants it, leads to growing euroscepticism, leads to a collapse of trust not only in the Bulgarian but also in the European institutions. The directive is yes, your bill is not! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. We'll finish the procedure with Mr. Zarkov and then I'll call a recess. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u59	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Zarkov, I'll start back and forth. No one apologizes with Brussels and says that we are doing something bad because Brussels said so. On the contrary: we believe that this directive, which is currently being applied, is the highest standard in relation to this type of relationship. We fully support the high European requirements for publicity, transparency and guaranteed competition in these procedures. We fully support the integration of the Bulgarian market, conditionally speaking, of concessions, with the European market. We support the opening of the opportunity, firstly, for European service operators to be able to participate in the competition and improve the parameters as well as in Europe to know what is going on in Bulgaria with regard to concessionation. In a short time, I will try to answer all your questions quickly. The third type of concession is also a positive fact and an element, i.e. a good and not a problem. Yes, it is not required by the directive, but what is the problem with this higher standard to refer to concessions for use? What, should we leave them separately under a corresponding lower requirements regime?! Moreover, the regime here becomes unified. Moreover, our Constitution obliges us to have this kind of use by concession, our Constitution obliges us to do so. Regarding your interpretation of the deadlines. Colleague, it's 35 years now, but plus an opportunity to extend the deadline by a third, so the total term is still 50 years. The time limit is limited and limited by the start of the procedure, as soon as the applicant says: And this term in the race may fall, but it can't increase. This is the special meaning of the mechanism to refer to the period as a racing element. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Sorry for the delay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Zarkov, since you started by saying that, you see, the Law was hasty, that we had to watch it in literally a week or two, and you also said about the directive and when it was adopted, and the period within which we had to transpose this Directive. In fact, the procedure for the adoption of this Bill started at the end of 2014, September or October, the entire procedure through the Council of Ministers, during two views in the National Assembly, through all the committees and now we are continuing on the topic. I am impressed that you, instead of asking your colleagues to prepare themselves, because I see that you have well prepared for the bill in the last two weeks, somehow does not go when you have been able to do so, perhaps the other colleagues of yours could have done so for those one or two weeks that you said. As for the directive and the presidential veto. Of course, the directive gives the general direction to what we need to transpose, but we have, of course, built on what we have as a requirement. I will give you an example: the directive does not require, there is no explicit requirement that the construction or financial risk should always be for the economic operator, but we have included it to be so. I can give many other examples that build on what we have as a requirement, because we still have traditions in, unfortunately, although not so developed, the concession institution, but we also have our traditions, and based on public expectations, we have also complied with them. We can't always say it's just because there's a directive. The justification, you see, that we accept this bill only because of the directive, is absolutely false. This bill is adopted and I hope it will be adopted because it regulates very important socio-economic relations for the benefit of society. It should not be speculated that it was only because of the directive that it was necessary to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u63	Gentlemen replicating, fellow Members! Dear Mr. Nenkov, precisely because we have traditions and these traditions are not good at all, we look at this Law in this way. Dear Mr. Kirilov, the directive excludes this kind of concessions not because they do not want to deal with them, but because behind this type of dedication, there is often a much simpler and ordinary lease contract. That's a big problem. In view of this perspective, it does not concern art. 18 of the Constitution, which you implicitly mentioned. A guarantee cannot be sufficient for the duration of the racing element, because for the most important and the longest-term concessions, the applicant for concessionaire is very often only one!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u64	That's how it was for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u65	Then we're going to a direct negotiation. I don't see why we're going to propose it between first and second readings, if the bill is still adopted at first reading, I don't see why you have to put the upper limit on why you're running away from it. Let's continue this debate, we're not going to humiliate him. My colleagues are well prepared and each of them in their sector will have the opportunity to say why this Law will not help the development of the Bulgarian economy, but may be the last blow to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. I'm calling a 30-minute recess at 12.10. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u67	Colleagues, please take your seats To speak, Mr. Ahmedov, from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you are, Mr. Ahmedov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u68	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposed Draft Law on concessions lays down the basic principles and rules relating to the preparation, conduct and completion of procedures, also the implementation and control of concession contracts, as well as the necessary actions for their planning. The draft new Law lays down the requirements of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts, taking into account the specifics of national legislation and its traditional decisions on concessions, public-private partnership, governance, respectively, and the disposal of state and municipal property, practice and previous experience in the area of concessions. By adopting the new Law, the existing Law on concessions and the Law on Public-Private Partnership will be repealed and the laws containing provisions relating to concessions will be amended to synchronise the implementation of the new Law. The reasons for the bill indicate that there are currently weaknesses due to the practice of concession to provide either natural resources or infrastructure, and so far no concession has been granted for the construction of significant infrastructure facilities, which, according to the importers, means that the concession institute is not used effectively, which we of the DPS agree with. We share the need to introduce a new approach to regulating public relations relating to the provision, implementation, amendment and termination of concessions in order to protect the public interest. The Law does not declare the principle of operational autonomy of the public authorities, which is recognised in art. 2 of the directive and which requires the principle to be laid down in the new Law. It is necessary to distinguish and redefine the activities and functions of the central and local authorities. The envisaged new model of procedures creates the possibility of direct contact between administration and participant, which creates conditions for corruption. Protection measures should be provided for in this respect. With regard to the time limits of works concessions and services, the adjusted period is sufficient. For long concessions, national and municipal concessions, they must be approved by the relevant representative body and a maximum period of time is signed only for concessions for use. The lack of a single mechanism in determining concession periods is contrary to the principle need for general regulation and award conditions. In the case of mineral water concessions, there are no requirements for the precise determination of documents to be submitted under the procedure. There are also no rules for compliance with the documents of the concession procedure for a certain period. Both misses cause serious concern. The future Law violates the rights of municipalities because it reduces the percentage of concession pay that municipalities can receive from the State for concession of state waters on their territory. From a minimum of 30%, the size is reduced to 30%. We share the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria that the percentage of concession remuneration that is granted to municipalities should be increased because this will allow for better maintenance of the adjoining infrastructure and will stimulate business. For many municipalities, mineral springs are the only factor for the growth and development of local tourism. Impression makes that identical provisions of European legislation are adopted differently in the project. I am referring to the grounds for removing the economic operator from the procedure for removal of concessionaires, as defined in art. 60 of the Project. In addition, the exclusion criteria introduced are too general, which could lead to administrative arbitrariness. We of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms believe that the adoption of the Law should be linked to the removal of those, albeit inexhaustible, weaknesses and discrepancies, because there is no doubt that this Law should create guarantees of equality and control in implementation and provide for common criteria for participation in concession procedures, regardless of ownership, state or municipal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. Replies to Mr. Ahmedov's statement? I can't see. We are moving on to Mr. Hristov's statement from the parliamentary group of the party. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u70	Madam President, honourable Members! I can't help but say, on behalf of our colleagues from the party, that we have finally seen that the forty-fourth National Assembly can work quickly, organised and despite the external pressure to follow a course set by the ruling majority. Unfortunately, however, this is not noticed in connection with a pension law of 300 BGN, in connection with a law to increase the salaries of teachers, policemen, doctors, and this...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u71	Mr. Christov, please get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u72	This is done in connection with exactly the Law on the concession.. a Law which gives a strong reason to doubt that it will not be used for lobbying interests; a Law against which no non-governmental organizations spoke sharply, which was also spoken by a large part of the society, a large part of the colleagues in the Chamber and last but not least against which the President of the Republic also spoke. It has also become clear in the examination of the Commission that the President's motives have not been paid particular attention, although I believe that we are very much obliged to pay attention to them, at least because of the fact that once the President has vetoed with certain arguments and we, on the other hand, are in a hurry for this Law to vote at first and second reading, if we are really in a hurry, in any likelihood, Mr. President will impose a new veto, so that this will take us further away from the date we have pledged ourselves and which is still conditional on June 15th, as it became clear in Mr. Kirilov's Commission. I'm very worried that the next thing we're going to have to vote here is the extension of a concession of some strategic concessionaire to 50, and why not 100 years? So, we have set momentum, I sincerely hope that we do not have to adopt the laws of a package, as is happening with this.. in two days passes through six or seven committees, in four days it enters plenary. Why don't we make five sets of laws that are interesting and strategic for the ruling majority, vote them out for a month and then relax and get our good work done? Thank you. [[(Applause by]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines to Mr. Hristov's statement. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u74	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! "United Patriarchs" will support the proposed version of the bill. What are our motives? First of all, this version of the Bill, although with a small number of changes, for us qualitatively alter the text that was originally tabled by the Council of Ministers, reflects to a large extent the objections that we had in the first view of this Bill when importing was the Council of Ministers, reflects, in the interest of the truth, much of the opposition's objections now in the plenary, including in one part of the provisions, also some of the reasons, as far as they are in the presidential veto, however, I stress here on another draft. We're looking at two different bills with different content, and this different content for me is at least essential. First of all, in art. 13 of this Bill is stressed that in the case of a reserved concession, that is, it is a concession which is implemented under programmes to create protected jobs for disabled or disadvantaged persons. The concession holder may only be an economic operator provided that at least 70 per cent of its workers or employees are such persons with disabilities or disadvantaged persons. In the previous version, this was 30%, which created already reasonable doubts about possible abuses, especially when the concession is a municipality and when concessions are implemented, whose object does not imply a large number of compositions of the concession. It was very easy for some 20 workers or employees, 7 of them to be appointed even with purely formal contracts of employment and, from now on, to enjoy all the privileges enjoyed by the concession holders of reserved concessions provided for in this Law. So I think that in this regard this is an evolutionary change which colleagues from GERB have adopted, for which I congratulate them. Next, in art. 22 is envisaged imperative rather than operative participation of the public partner when we have a public-private company in the management of this company. In this way, in my opinion, the public interests will be much better guaranteed, not only by the operative option, as it was on the initial draft of the Council of Ministers. We can absolutely say that the change in para. 7 of this legal text also protects the public interest, namely the granted real estate rights, which are the subject of a non-cash contribution by the public service provider, we are talking again about a public-private company here, are considered to be granted until the company is terminated and cannot be the subject of an administrative action by the public-private company. This is an opportunity and a rule which was not established and determined in the previous version submitted by the Council of Ministers. We believe that this is undoubtedly guarded by the public interest, which we have heard a lot of criticism about how almost in this law is in no way protected and not preserved. Substantial is the change that is found in art. 33, para. 2 of the Bill. There we have once again an imperative norm which states that, in the case of a concession for construction and a concession for services, concession remuneration is envisaged. In the previous version of the Bill, the concession fee could have been foreseen, meaning we could have concessions in which we had no concession fee at all. In this case, a concession fee should necessarily exist and this follows precisely from this imperative record of the norm. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34, which may be one of the most disciplined texts relating to the cases of concessions with and over 35 years of duration, we also have imperative rules in place that tell us that when we have such a maximum concession period and it comes to a concession where a concession is the state, a corresponding minister in particular, following the new records in the Law on concessions, the concession decision is necessarily opened after a decision of the National Assembly. The optional possibility, which existed in the previous version, is becoming imperative here and in any case under such concessions the decision is taken by the country's supreme legislative authority, which, I think, is a good solution, given that Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary governance. In such cases, we should have a binding decision of the National Assembly. In the same way are things with municipal concessions, where we have even double control "once when the concession is over 20 years old, we must have a decision of the Municipal Council, again imperatively introduced, and, second time, we must have a solution when it is over 35 years of municipal concession, of the National Assembly, which also protects the public interest. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64 I also believe that a substantial change is made, with concessions without cross-border interest, the concession necessarily defines as a condition for participation requirements to the professional and technical capabilities of candidates or participants or to their financial and economic situation. This text in the previous version was as an opportunity, i.e. in concessions without cross-border interest, to have no conditions at all for the professional or technical abilities of the candidates, nor for their financial and economic situation. With the new version of the text this becomes absolutely mandatory. I believe that, to the maximum extent, these amendments are legal, appropriate and fully protect the interests of the state and of society. Of course, the Bill, like any bill, needs some additional editorials of the texts. We reserve the right to make similar proposals between first and second readings. I can now say that we will make an amendment to the concession contracts concluded until the entry into force of this Law with regard to the possibility to extend and we will propose that, in this case, the concession contracts concluded until the entry into force of this Law remain valid for the agreed period without the right to extend. This is what we think is right and logical in this case, not to carry the possibility of prolonging an old order quite, I would even say, very different from the one which is being established with the current proposals the Law on concessions. We will, of course, make other proposals for changes, but in general with these amendments and additions, which I briefed you on, we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u75	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Here's a line for you, Mr. Slivensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Mitev, I have listened carefully to your speech. You have probably found reasons in this Bill to support it, i.e. within the framework of the National Assembly to assist colleagues from GERB in the adoption of the Bill. However, from the statement of the importers, I understood that this was the same bill, which was discussed for six months in society, before that another six months in the Council of Ministers, before that a few more months on committees, and this explained the rapid adoption within 6.. 7 days in the current National Assembly. And you claim that this is a new, radically different bill than the one that brought the president back. My question to you is: we are looking at this Law, which has been discussed for several dozen months in society, in the Council of Ministers and in committees, or we are looking at another law that you have read, and you see a completely different law. Because what I've read and what I've seen is that it's the same law, not even consistent with the President's motives. My question to you is: Are you reading the same Law, will you support the same Law, or is there some division of position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u78	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Undoubtedly, such a law is necessary for the country, but not as it is proposed. Personally, I saw Mr. Mitev on TV shows on TV when he was dissatisfied with this Law. And I am now surprised that we, as MPs who have to defend the position of the state and of society, have not paid attention to the philosophy of the imported Law, namely that it is aimed at protecting the private interest and the concessionaire. Concises of this type rather bring us back to Africa from the middle of the last century. We become a donor of resources and raw materials. Where is the added value of these raw materials and resources? Where are the open jobs that will benefit us as a country here? It's a philosophy that needs to be changed and turned towards society, Mr. Mitev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u79	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Mr. Kostadinov for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u80	Madam President, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Mitev! My line is about defining the public interest in the way you put it, and your legitimate and positive attitude towards specific texts of the Law. My line is in a quote. 8 July 2016: This is a bad law for Bulgaria. Let's get the cabinet back 85 grand. BGN, which he has given to the law firm for its preparation, and donate them to lifesaving operations. The concession is an instrument of colonial conquest of the world. The concession is robbing, exploiting the raw materials and riches of one country from another. We've been pleading for the termination of the already existing concessions for 11 years. They have done billions of damage to our country. Mr. Mitev, this is the leading statement of the leader of your formation at the moment. Did you express your personal opinion or is this the official position of your parliamentary group? And what gives rise to this difference as a position of 8 July 2016 and now? Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u81	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Mitev, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u82	Thank you, Madam President. In the order of the given lines. Dear Mr. Svilenski, this is the bill submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs is not the draft of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u83	So that's another law?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u84	Yeah, that's another law. This is not the bill of the Council of Ministers. And if you sit down and read text by text... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What the importers do, you ask yourself a question to the importers, I'm not an importer of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u85	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u86	As for Mr. Baychev's line. Mr. Baychev, what I have had as positions, I have expressed them in the Legal Committee in viewing the first Bill, version of the Council of Ministers, with colleague Emil Dimitrov If you so zealously make inquiries, you can see at the second reading of the Law on concessions who is the only one who has taken any regard for this Law at all. He's not from your group, he's not a representative of the BSP. Regarding the last line and this quote, I consider, first, that this quote refers to the previous version. That's how it was quoted. This is the text which is with the importer of the Council of Ministers. I did not for a reason bother to read the changes, which, again, I say, are few in number, but as a quality of content are fundamentally different from what was tabled by the Council of Ministers. And they change the philosophy of the Law. Unfortunately, in the short time of the doppelganger, I do not have time to lecture why philosophy changes, what is the difference between the operative and the imperative norm and what is the introduction of an obligation. As a whole, in the spirit of lines and their meaning, in the philosophy of your lines, I am under the impression that we have barely had any concession laws before. If I go back in time, the current Law on concessions with all its shortcomings and with all its disabilities was adopted at the time when you ruled along with the NDSV and with the DPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u87	That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u88	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mrs. Yankova to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, the subject of the Bill, behind the big debate, including the Commission, I do not know why the representatives of the Council of Ministers are loudly talking about the directive and the concessions for construction and concessions for service which are subject to art. 1, para. 1. But there today for the first time Mr. Kirilov shared in para. 2 it is written that this bill regulates the terms and conditions for the award of concessions for the use of public state and public municipal property, that is, we insert everything. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Under art. 2, colleagues, what concerns me to make an informed decision and to be at the level of responsibility as legislators, in art. 2, para. 4 is recorded the essence of the Bill: the economic efficiency in the management of public property. And perhaps an even more advanced economic efficiency in determining ownership in the interests of citizens and society. There is probably no one here who does not think that this is about the Bulgarian national interests and the construction and the services that will be awarded on concession. If they are to be awarded, yes, it has a state-of-the-art nature, but also the Bulgarian national interest, which concerns public and state property. I believe that the seven colleagues who have signed this bill are very brave, extremely brave, to take responsibility for us as legislators, who will undoubtedly participate at second reading, and to the whole Bulgarian people to say: We are the heroes here and offer the best Law on concessions such as publicity, openness, register and other things. But there are a few questions, colleagues standing by. We did not have a discussion, I also said in the Commission, and I will say it now: what will be the public property regime, with regard to the existing 400 to 500 agreed concessions for fields in the future, will they enter into this regime to extend deadlines and become eternal concessions? Including those 67 concessions that have been acquired from privatisation transactions? Or will they be left to expire the term under the old Bill and we will enter fully from now on with this bill in effect, as they are undoubtedly the subject of other laws? The Law on concessions itself corresponds with about 29 bills and in fact it goes very deep into the economic interest of the country. There's one more question. I'm a big fan of public-private partnerships. I believe that in modern Bulgaria this is one of the questions that can be created by defining the public interest to seek and partner. But in this bill, we don't equal the public consequence, we put it on the lower quality and put it as the leading private one. The equality of the two partners in this bill is lacking. Here there is a tilt on one side and there is no dispute. You are representatives of the right group and you can in the management of private property, of public interest, lean more towards private interest. Thirdly, there is another question: the European Union Directive 2014/23 adopted the rule on limiting the duration of concessions. We say: until a certain time and we give a wider march with opportunities to, yes, the authorities of the vertical Council, the Council of Ministers, the National Assembly, to increase this deadline. I say again, the concessions that have been placed so far will the rapid procedure be for these 400, 500, which are essentially not in favor of the Bulgarian public interest? Volen Siderov was right in his previous statements "part of the voluntary establishment of the sovereignty of the state" is to give the national wealth to be managed for minimal pennies. In the months of October, November, we will surely come to the debate on the state budget. When we come to the state budget debate, we'll see how much we get from concessions? Maybe we'll ask the minister what's next, next year, better than the concessions? It is normal to put it as a question. Dear colleagues, I can't help but think of this question: in art. 17 The law shifts relations in local self-government, which are very clearly defined. When it comes to municipal property, the municipal council is on the move. The public interest is of the municipal council, i.e. the public interest of the citizens, of the property. What makes you want to put the mayor in? You're interfering in dislocating the principles of local self-government. He's saying that the mayor and the city council are becoming a liability. This is a gross violation of the very Constitutional Law, which is fundamental to the functioning of local self-government. These issues, which currently involve us, stand open with the great change that has almost been made in the Law of the Council of Ministers, I say, are the brave seven people, and we are hiding behind the European directive. The citizens of Bulgaria want to know: are we responsible as people? The public, the great interest in the wealth of the fatherland under para. 2, which is governed, does that mean that we will further define eternal concessions? Does this Bill make the relations with regard to construction, yes, of services, but of public and municipal property perhaps with a much deeper debate. That is why we wanted and it will surely come time to ask for debates in the concession hall in the various directions................................................................................................ Even at the moment we were looking at the Bill, the contract for the Broachishte was ordered to be terminated. These are the considerations that make me vote against the bill. I'm asking you to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Extend the time of all groups. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u91	Madam President, honourable Members! Bulgaria, apart from its political, cultural, whatever newest history, has also, of course, its own, unfortunately, relevant history in its latest time when, I dare say, it has recorded the most shameful pages in the last 30 years. All who have closely monitored the work of the Forty-third National Assembly remember that just minutes before it was completed, the law returned quickly was voted back by the President. At the time, the justification was that, under threat of transposition of the applicable European legislation, this must happen. This is true, but the proposed bill, honourable importers, has a non-compliance with the applicable directive. I would allow myself briefly in five points to justify how you see the good of concessions, not that it is a wicked word, but content. We're seeing something else here. By the way, Madam President, honourable Members, it is appropriate to specify who the importer is, because at a joint meeting of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government and the Committee on Energy, the representatives of the Council of Ministers told the two committees that they did not see this Law coming from Mr. Danail Kirilov. We believed Mr. Kirilov that the Council of Ministers introduced the Law, which he has worked out, but let's clarify this at this time is important though. The first serious vice of the Law on concessions is the fact that it restricts the principle of publicity. In this directive, this is the guiding principle. This Directive establishes obligations for Member States to award concessions subject to the principle of publicity. As I said, the bill provides for the principle of transparency to be limited. The concession bill does not provide any limitation and clear rules in which cases transparency may be limited by law. Does this mean, Members, that in this case, the National Assembly can choose for a specific concession or for a particular type of concessions to restrict the principle of transparency? The text which limits transparency, I consider extremely critical. The second serious vice of the Bill is that it limits the principle of local self-government. Some colleagues have said a few words about this. I will return to the terms of the directive. The applicable European directive explicitly indicates that the principle of operational autonomy of local authorities is recognised. This is a very clear text and a European principle. However, the Bill enables the state to influence local self-government authorities on the conditions under which the concession is awarded, keep this in mind. These are cases where municipal concessions for the award of works or services are longer than 35 years. In these cases the opening of the concession award procedure is necessary, notice a decision of the National Assembly. Have we forgotten the lyrics to art. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, in which: ....................................... I think we've forgotten it. The Constitution itself determines that the municipality has the right to property, respectively, to be used in the interest of the local community. Who is the supreme authority in terms of local self-government? Colleagues, this is the municipal council, and with such proposals a bill you create prerequisites for direct influence of the National Assembly.. another type of power, in the autonomy of municipalities, and the right of municipalities to manage and dispose of their own resources. Thirdly, the Bill creates an opportunity for eternal concessions without limitation of the duration of the concession. In fact, firstly, the Bill determines that the maximum concession period is 35 years. That's true. However, this conditional deadline can be overcome after a decision of the National Assembly on us again, with no maximum deadline for the presentation of the concession. That is, the National Assembly can decide 200 or 300 years. That means that the parliamentary majority can give the green light to a single economic operator to benefit from public property, public capital and assets, regardless of state or municipal, for an undue length of time. I don't think there's a reasonable person in this room to back that up. This is a real prerequisite, sorry for abuses and granting concessions to close economic circles to be benefited at the expense of the state and at the expense of the local community. I would say that this is not even a family-feudal, but a family-tribe amendment, because we know our country well, we know our traditions and manners, and it is unnecessary to convince ourselves of that. In fourth place, extremely disturbing and contrary to the rule of law is the way of formulating public authorities which award concessions. Colleagues, the Council of Ministers will no longer be the main state body that awards concessions, but the relevant minister whose sectoral competence falls within the scope of the concession. Doesn't giving authority to a single authority light up a red lamp for you? The Council of Ministers is already deprived of a leading position in the award of concessions, and this is the body that will balance the public interest regardless of who is in power and will directly protect some sustainable development model. The situation in the award of municipal concessions is no different. Unlike the current Law on concessions, which, as we call it, is good or bad, the proposed Law provides that municipal concessions will be awarded after a decision of the mayor of the municipality. End of story. The proposal of art. 17, para. 3 of the Law on concessions contradicts the general principle that the management of municipal property is carried out by the municipal council. There are many colleagues here who have directly worked in municipal and local authorities. In conclusion, the draft proposed by you has other handicaps: there is a reasonable opportunity for division of concessions; neither minimum nor maximum conditions for professional or technical possibilities are set as conditions for admission of participation in the concession; no clear rules can be established under what conditions concessions can be awarded. Thus, the hypermarket chain has no problem applying for the concession at Sofia Airport, reading directly this Law, and there will be no collision. In conclusion, we can say that you will replicate me that the proposed Law on concessions does not aim for transparency and publicity, but for lobbying and corporate interests; it does not aim for decentralisation of local authorities, but for feudalisation; it does not guarantee national interest, but for global privatisation; it is not a strategy for competitive advantages and growth, but a path to colonial servantship. How big does it have to be, honourable Members, this small Bulgaria, in order to reach it with this Law?! Please don't stick another nail in the trunk of our suffering motherland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u92	For the second line Mr. Kirilov, third Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, many conflicting thoughts have spoken from this platform with all due respect, Mr. Kostadinov, nicely someone wrote it to you, but you need to look a little more into what you are saying. And I'm only gonna tell you two of the things that made me the coolest impression that contradicts each other. First, you said that you read the President's veto and that it almost broke the principle of transparency and so on, and then you said, see how the National Assembly would interfere with the local government. I apologize, then, how will we limit the publicity and transparency in granting such concessions, especially for those with longer durations over 35 years, when they will pass with a sanction of the National Assembly? If there is a more transparent organ in this country, please come and tell me who it is. Here are all the parliamentary groups, whether opposition or ruling, everyone will have the opportunity to speak whether it is appropriate to initiate the procedure or not. There is no more transparent place than this tribune in the state and the accusations that there is almost a breach of transparency are absolutely ridiculous. Then you say so: you can restrict.. and you say this as a reproach, the number of participants in the light concession, in the concession procedure, and it is provided that there is quite a carefully written procedure by which gives certain criteria which companies can participate and cannot participate for the relevant concession procedure depending on the subject of the activity. Then they say so: a chain of hypermarkets will be able to participate in an airport concession. No, on the contrary, the very first thing you said, and it is actually the most important thing, is that when a procedure starts, the contracting authority can determine common criteria for what companies what economic operators will be suitable for them to participate, for example, in building a path. These must be companies they've done, they've had experience with this thing, they've got know-how. So the two theories are completely contradicting each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u94	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u95	Thank you. Dear President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Kostadinov! Perhaps I should remind you that there is nothing wrong with the Law on concessions either in the present or in the previous one, in my view. But in your opinion there may be something wrong with the previous one and you are worried about how you will apply the new one. Now I'm gonna give you some data. Port terminal "Lessport". the contract was concluded May 2005, by Minister Nikolay Vassilev; ferry terminal Silistra. the contract was concluded 2006, 30 years contract by Minister Petar Mutafchiev; port terminal Svishtov. the contract was concluded 2007 by Minister Petar Mutafchiev for 31 years; port terminal Balchik contract was concluded 2005 with a period of 25 years, Minister Petar Mutafchiev; port terminal Oryahovo. the contract was concluded 2007 year, 25 years, Minister Petar Mutafchiev; port terminal Somovit, entered into force 2009 year, 22 years contract, Minister Petar Mutafchiev, port terminal Nikopol. the contract was concluded 2013 year, entered into force on 2013, Minister Danail Papazov; port terminal Ruse West, 35-year contract and the previous contract was 35 years, Minister Danail Papazov; port terminal Nase, 35 year contract. Dear colleagues, what are we talking about? It's just facts. I hope you will shut up and bear your responsibility from now on, not jump and talk nonsense from the National Assembly. [[Applause from GERB.]] And something very important I would like to add: Bulgarian river fleet and Bulgarian marine fleet who sold them? They're not even on concession! Who sold them? Here is a question from fellow Members on the left! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u96	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there a third line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u97	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the House, dear Mr. Kostadinov! Two minutes is a very short time to actually replicate all the lies and fictions you made here just now. [[shouts from BSP for Bulgaria, applause from GERB]] . I will start with the technical requirements.............................................................................................. 66 read it, it's a huge text, more than two pages. They are absolutely mandatory for cases where the concession is of cross-border interest. We made them absolutely mandatory in cases where the concession is below the criterion of cross-border interest. So everywhere this is a dominant requirement along with financial economic indicators. I wanted to keep my mouth shut about the mining concessions, but you slipped along the line of eternal concessions. I will explain to both you and Mrs. Dora Yankova how a mine is conquered for ever and ever, and I will explain to you the scheme in Obrochishte and ask you: when and at which time you can let some other concessionaire in there.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u98	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Kostadinov for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u99	Mr. Nenkov, Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Kirilov! Unlike you, I am definitely of the opinion that you as people with high parliamentary and extensive experience write your own things and they are not the product of any external influence, unlike us, as you said. You are also reading and thinking much faster than we are, but perhaps it is because you have been parliamentarians longer. I support that, I will not oppose that statement. At the same time I want Mr. Ivanov to read this long list, if he can provide it as information to all MPs, but to value it because the value of everything read... More than BGN 20 million in the country, and from your concession at the port of Burgas the result is zero, Mr. Ivanov [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] . So the valuation is good. And I want to finish with the following: 1901, Mr. Kirilov, is the first concession in Trun for gold mining. Sorry, colleagues, the first gold mining concession in Trun! I want you to see the spirit of the legislator, the law of the statesman: 50% of the gold mining remains for the state and 50% of the state buying at international market prices. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u100	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. For a personal explanation Mrs. Yankova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kirilov, perhaps with the line you made, you came to my speech that we should have analyzed the concessions. And those who are corrupted, who are not in favor of the Bulgarian interest, to take one decision, responsibility and to end them, and to release them under the procedure of this law, because who has given for concessions that are not in favour of the national interest, and who are currently... Let's do, let's go over this list of 500 concessions! Let's review the concessions given by governments where BSP was involved, see how they are positioned throughout the transition. That doesn't bother us. If we are at the level of responsibility as people who regulate public and public interest, let's do it. That's why I think you came to mine: we could do an analysis of all concessions, say everything would be in the future. For me it will be very interesting from here on out, these concessions that you have read, will you put them further on the list of eternal ones? I'll follow him! I will follow him very closely and we will see him overflowing from empty to empty public interest, unfortunately. Let's focus and people say that we protect and defend the real public interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, undoubtedly, the Law on concessions now under review is considered to be structurally determining. Strukturo-determining, in general, for the development of the Bulgarian economy and, on the other hand, for the social and economic relations in the country. Of course, two are the main reasons why an argument should be sought for the adoption of this Law. The first, of course, is the requirement of the European directive, where Bulgaria is naturally late and it would not be appropriate for us to enter and pay millions of euros for not doing our job. But here I want to make it very clear that it cannot be the first reason, and I do not think it is the most important reason, and the second is much more important. The second reason for the adoption of this Law is that really the practice up to this point is without throwing unnecessary accusations at who, which concession, what has given... The colleague Stanislav Ivanov just read what he did not say that all concessions were bad, did not say that thing. He simply read concession contracts concluded under the current Law when you were managing. But he didn't say they were bad! Some of them must be bad for them, there must be corruption pressure in public procurement, and now there must have been public pressure before, and there must have been public pressure in these concessions, too, but that doesn't mean that we shouldn't go in improving our legislation. The fact is also the second reason for the adoption and viewing of this Law is the fact that, so far, we do not have any, notice, any concession for the construction of a large infrastructure site, where, of course, the operational, construction risk is at the expense of the economic operator, which means that the current legislation is not flexible enough. It does not create such conditions and arrangements for the provision of concessions for those who, on the one hand, are in the interest of the contracting authority, on the other hand, to be in the benefit and interest of the economic operators themselves, and this, as a good symbiosis, must be in the benefit of society. The fact is that so far we have a great gap in this particular part, in this matter. The other great reason that is still connected to this thing is that we need to answer the question clearly: after 2020, given that it is clear to all of us that, after the end of these operational programmes, money, especially for infrastructure, will be sharply reduced, which requires, as you say, the hasty adoption of such a Law, and in my opinion, the late adoption of such a Law, which really gives some new framework and improves precisely those relations between the contracting entity and economic operators. Because after this programming period it would be difficult, and there are certainly such sites.... were roads, were highways, other major structural objects that... [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Sofia Airport is a completely different topic, we'll get there. However, such infrastructure sites where the State will not be able to afford to invest such funds at the very least, and in a good balance between the interests of the contracting entity and economic operators, these projects would be possible to happen. Because, you can see now, for example, a highway that requires over a billion, I don't know what the exact final amount is, probably over a billion leva, this money will come entirely at the expense of the Bulgarian taxpayer. There are no operational programs, there is nowhere to be financed, and we will have to pay them from our taxes. Why not use the interest of private investors precisely to build such sites? So far, we haven't done this thing. I'll give you a simple example. If you look a little further west and you see how, for example, the tunnel under the English Channel was given for 99 years of use and the English-French consortium, which built it at his expense, took all the... and operational, and construction costs, the risk is for him. Whether he will recover the investment for the 90 years with the corresponding profit, the risk is entirely for him. But we shouldn't be scared here for 99 years, there's nothing wrong with that thing. There's nothing wrong with that! People came up with it long before we did, and obviously we're slowing down. And the argument, you see, is rushing to accept this is not true. This is a bill, which since the end of 2014, is for public discussion, has passed a procedure through the Council of Ministers, has passed two votes, has a presidential veto, has been voted again, and these are simply untenable arguments, rather an attempt is being sought to... I understand, it is logical, you are opposed, you must always look for the opposite side of the coin, but in the end we should rather unite here about how to perfect this legislation as far as possible, regulate it to be as transparent, as fair as possible, to look for a good balance between the contracting authority and the operator, but not just to say no, we should not accept this Law with non-existent arguments. Because here I cannot fail to mention the presidential veto, in which you so literally quote the President's veto in the end there is nothing absolutely concrete, general phrases. With all due respect to the presidential institution, in the end you remember well, the motives were much longer than when the act of veto itself was made. Yes, the President has implemented his authority as such and has vetoed, but in the end, obviously the delay in these arguments for the imposition of the imposed veto speaks for itself that he was obviously not 100% sure about the reasons for the veto being imposed. But I'll stop there. Of course, the president has his authority, and we can't argue with him. And when we are now importing this Bill again, there were really details that were cleared of the initial....................... about the terms,......... and the ways of carrying the risk, and so on. I believe that, in this form, the Law guarantees a very serious transparent procedure, excluding the European directive that we have complied with, but guarantees a very, very high level of procedure that really leads to some balance, because up to this point, the fact is that these concessions represent one candidate or even no candidate at all, means that the contracting entities themselves, whether municipal or state, have not done their job. It is here that these two innovations should be noted, namely those competitive dialogues and negotiations that lead to the open procedure ultimately. At these moments, for example, I give how a contracting entity.... whether a municipality or a state, comes from some economic interest and made a financial and technical project, however this is from his point of view. However, from the perspective of the private investor this is not accurate, these are not the necessary parameters for his account to come up. And that is why so far most such economic operators have not been involved in such concessions. It is in these pre-negotiation procedures that will make the framework even more clear, the financial, technical, economic model of the project, so that, when the open procedure is already under way, we can not just simulate that we are doing one, but to really show up companies.. international, of course, Bulgarian companies that meet certain conditions and really have an interest in participating and fighting better conditions. Guys, I'm really gonna end up here. There must be a lot more to say. I appeal to you to adopt the Law of First Voting. You must also have good proposals between first and second votes. There's nothing wrong with that. Let's improve this legislation. We are not in a hurry, we have been very slow to do this back in the years, so that we can really, when we are talking about economic growth, economic development, attracting private capital, foreign investment, the word "concession" should not be a dirty word, but, on the contrary, we must try to develop this institution and in the future look for exactly the economic rise of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Mr. Svilensky, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u105	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will begin my speech, and it will be very brief. Until now, I did not understand who was the importer of the law "Whether the colleagues or the representatives of the Council of Ministers. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u106	Put your card on!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u107	I'm sorry. [[Noise and lines.]] I didn't find out who was the importer. In Transport Commission, I asked the question clearly: Can Bulgarian Post Offices be concessionated? Does this Law enable the concession of the universal postal service and the payment of pensions to all Bulgarian pensioners? Half of the representatives said they couldn't, the other half doubted their opinion, and the Deputy Minister's opinion was categorical and this is in the transcript that: The Law does not give this opportunity. But when you read art. 8, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 15, para. 3, Annex 2 and 3 of the Law is clearly written down what is given to the concession. That is why it was our request that the Minister of Transport be present here. Unfortunately, he didn't come. Our concern is that with the adoption of this Law, with the conclusion of such concessions we will come to the case of the concession in Plovdiv, which you all know about and which I think the state has absolutely no interest in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u108	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u109	Dear Mr. Svilenski, could you explain the case in Plovdiv? Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u110	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Any other lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Stoynev, yes, you are right that I did not explain what the case was about in Plovdiv, thinking that colleagues were sufficiently informed about the case. I will now explain to you and with this to the entire National Assembly. Honourable Members, it is a concession in which the State has invested more than 12 million. lv. for construction of gas station, car wash, terminals [[speaking indistinctly]] , 70 acres of area given to a concession to a single company, one single appeared against 5 thousand. lv. a month! [[Noise and lines.]] If this, the same contract was proposed for a vote here in this Chamber, I am sure that his concession would have been extended perhaps for 50 years. [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] These are our concerns about how the state property is damaged, how the state property is damaged precisely by such concessions, which, Mr. Ivanov, I am waiting for you to read them to me on a list.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u112	Is there European funding?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u113	Yes, Mr. Stoynev, this site is made with European financing, it is built with European money and will be given at any moment "These weeks, to a company, I will not allow myself to say it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u114	These are your hypotheses! Get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u115	Anyone can read it. The participant is one, the winner is one, the company is from Plovdiv, with four letters. We have addressed respectively the media and now the entire National Assembly. That is why we want this Law not to be adopted because the fate of Sofia Airport. Someone said Sofia airport was another beer. But at Sofia airport the concession for your election programs is coming. There the concession is for maybe over 30 years and you will probably want another 30, that is to leave Bulgaria without an airport and Sofia without income.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u116	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Lazarov's manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u117	Madam President, it seems that I or my fellow Members in this Chamber cannot understand what we are looking at. The current Law on concessions has been passed by the government of Sergey Stanishev. [[Noise and lines.]] Under this law, statements are currently being made that a proposal has been made for some concession, not the law which is the subject of a current examination of the first vote. If we are going to see the law passed by the government of Sergey Stanishev, then to debate, to put the concession at Varna airport for 35 years, the concession of Burgas Airport
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u118	What's coming is at Plovdiv Airport.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u119	I understand that my colleagues very much like the current Law of the Government of Stanishev, but please very much do not give them the opportunity to talk about a Law that is not the subject of this discussion. We are talking about another Law on concessions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u120	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. I'll take a note of your words. [[Noise and lines.]] Procedure in the manner of holding Mr. Kirilov, and then Mr. Svilenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u121	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'm addressing you because of the way the opposition won three minutes for the duplicate by passing, which was some kind of quasi-like replica. In fact, there was no line, and there was an indication: Mr. Svilensky, tell me what case you are! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In order to be correct in reporting time, I urge, Madam President, to take away the extra time that has been wrongly provided for this so-called dimple. [[Extreme applause from GERB, loud noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Otherwise, we'll start doing the same trick. We've got 20 minutes, we're gonna transfer every minute, we're gonna pass our lines, and we're gonna win at least another hour. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u122	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. From now on this will not be allowed, but naturally, I have no way of knowing what the line will be and how long it will be. Everyone has a two-minute line. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky. But thank you for the procedure, though.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u123	The manner of conduct will be my line, Madam President, and it is addressed entirely to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u125	When giving fellow Members the opportunity to make a reply in the manner of conduct, to make a remark to you, be so good as not to give them the opportunity to explain to Varna Airport and compare it to Sofia Airport, that is to say, fooling your colleagues, addressing you, because the case at Varna Airport is that the concessionaire has made all the investment in order to make this airport.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u126	Now you are taking advantage of the procedure in the manner of conduct to explain concessions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u127	It's just that my request is, by using this meeting to prevent the MPs from being manipulated. The difference between the two concessions is from here to heaven. One of them invested the state and the other one invested a private investor. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Thank you, Madam President, and I hope that you will no longer give the floor on this occasion and not restrict the opposition when there is a reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u128	Thank you. I am not limiting the opposition, I am simply introducing a correction to your speech and I am taking note of all procedures made in the manner of conduct. To speak, Mr. Dobrev. Let's take turns, Mr. Dobrev, it'll be you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u129	Madam President, honourable Members! I listen to my colleagues on the left and I can't believe my ears. [[Laughter, noise and lines.]] They give examples of abuse in concessions! Just you, colleagues on the left to remind me that in your management, in Oresharski's office you gave a third of the Black Sea to Bulgaria a company related to Krassimir Georgiev with 5 thousand. lv. capital for 200 thousand. Euro bonus. [[Applause from GERB.]] Do you remember that? Subsequently, the procedure that we carried out, we brought in the total, OMV and Repsol in the block of Han Asparuh with 80 million euros without VAT bonus! [[Applause from GERB.]] Eighty million euros! The difference between 200,000. EUR 80 million Euros is 400 times! In order not to give just one example, say: "Well, think of something else! " - I will give you another example. Remember we had a temporary committee that was about establishing the facts and circumstances of the concession in Bobov Dol? Do you remember this temporary committee that the D.A.'s now dealing with? What happened there? That the state has transferred for free, without money then we said, against 1 BGN. Turns out he's broke. The state, with a decision of the Council of Ministers, despite the negative opinions of the Council of Ministers, of the Ministry of Economy, of all possible institutions, is transferred rights to the Council of Ministers and it does not enter into force rights to a private company, free of charge. And a few months after the transfer of these rights, the private firm sold them to another private firm for 35 million. It's a euro. But the money comes into the first private company, which, first private company, by the way, if you remember, was related to one that in the media called "Pargov" which, I think, is also on the left side of the room. [[Applause from GERB.]] Close, close to the left side of the hall. Colleagues, your problem with this bill is not in anything else, it's not in the potential risk of abuse or anything like that. Your problem with this bill is that it creates rules with which the examples I have given you cannot happen. It creates rules and cannot happen these examples. [[Applause from GERB.]] Even if you come to power, you won't be able to do the things you've done in the past. Basically, I'd like to say a few words about the Bill. The bill is a working bill, which will enable the private sector to invest in public infrastructure an opportunity such as the private sector has not had in the last 30 years. For the first time, we will give the private sector the opportunity to invest in public infrastructure with clear rules and criteria that no one can circumvent. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u130	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. A line? [[National Representative Dragomir Stoinev wants the floor.]] Let's go through the procedure with the replica and the back, and then. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u131	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Dobrev! I object to you concentrating on just two examples. [[Arrival in the GERB group.]] I would like you to try to recall during the government of the Triple Coalition, 2006, when the Law on concessions was adopted, which was one of the biggest planned, strategic concessions that developed MRRB? Wasn't it about the Thracian highway? What was the provision for this concession? Wasn't it an attempt to give the concession to some replicators, say, to the Italian companies...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u132	They were Portuguese.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u133	The Portuguese were supposedly behind the Italians, Mr. Genov, see how well you know. [[Arrival in GERB. Communicating.]] Who were they behind the Portuguese?! Who were they behind the Portuguese? Mr. Dobrev, I hold and insist that you explain these circumstances as well as as as Minister You did not say what peak of concessions you have found in 2006 the law, in 2007 how many concession facilities and contracts have been concluded? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u134	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Second line, Mrs. Yankova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u135	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Dobrev! You have been Minister of Economy and Energy and have been very informed, and you continue to be a very informed person. You held in your hands the information about the natural resource. Are you willing to review the concessions, their effectiveness and put an end to these things that weigh on the Bulgarian society? Because it's empty. Now there's something else I'm not going to ask you about. I remember at the concession of "Trakiya" a young man in Minister Paskalev's office.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u136	Huh?! Was that guy from BSP?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u137	We're waiting for a third line. Come in, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u138	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dobrev! I'd like to make one clarification. Ideologies - left or right, in a broader sense and parties, concessions do not give out. It's always personal responsibility, it's always subjective. When I talk with pain about concessions, it's not some political fake. I support what Dora Yankova said that it is absolutely necessary on this embarrassing question for Bulgaria how many concessions have expired, to have such consensus. Why my line? That's what makes me look bad. Whenever we enter meaningfully into some dispute, when a discussion on the substance begins at second reading, we will make a great effort to reform the Law, but at first reading we obviously have in the philosophy of law gaping, and it is not shameful, it is not disgraceful. When we say clearly that we are opposed, you cannot give political context. Otherwise, let the prosecution, you are more aware of the prosecution's actions, personally seeking responsibility for what everyone has done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u139	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Dobrev, the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u140	Madam President, honourable Members! In fact, BSP colleagues have been misled in my speech. I, as a politician and as a man sitting on this stand, have the right to develop whatever subject I want, but it was not essentially. The concessions that I have given as examples are considered in the Law on Underground Treasures, not in the Law on concessions. So, colleagues, since you're giving me lines related to the Underground Treasures Act, it's nice to read the concession law to see that it excludes underground wealth. [[Applause from GERB.]] Since the lines from the BSP were related to the Law on Underground Treasures, I will give you another very good example. You remember very well in Madan there was an enterprise "Gorubso" which went bankrupt where people protested for months without pay. For more than six months, they've been out of pay. Then we found a way to solve the problem, and not only did the "Gorubso" work, but opened two new fields, if you remember "Shahonitsa" and "Pechinsko." In these two new fields, the concessionaire pays the maximum legally possible concession remuneration of 4% of turnover, unlike the concessions previously awarded at a percentage, a percentage and a half. There are privatization deals below 1%. Not only have new jobs opened up, new fields for underground wealth, but also the concessionary remuneration paid is 4% and up. Mr. Kirilov, I'm so sorry, I'm going to disappoint you. In my opinion, the BSP complimented me that I am a very familiar person, thank you for that. In this case, I am not familiar with the procedure for concession of the highway. However, what I do remember is that some billions of levs or euros were planned to be given back to companies with no experience, as far as I remember from Portugal, instead of this highway being built, as Borisov did, with funds from the European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u141	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. The way you're holding Mr. Genov. [[National Representative Dragomir Stoinev wants the floor.]] He asked me to go before you, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u142	Madam President, honourable Members! Do not allow people who confuse chronology and events from the stands. Let me get this straight. The concession for the highway "Trakiya" was BSP's election motive for the 2005 elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u143	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u144	Let me just say one last thing. For that office where a boy stood, he was Mr. Paskalev's chief of staff. And I've seen it many times. Get up and tell her. If he was against it, he would have objected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u145	Thank you, Mr. Genov. I can't help but give the floor to my fellow MPs. Personal explanation? First Mr. Stoinev or Mr. Kirilov? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. [[Applause, noise, excitement.]] Mr. Kirilov was more persistent than you, and I'll give you your word.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u146	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Since BSP for Bulgaria very much insist on seeing the boy. To recall facts and circumstances. Stay out of it and don't stain Paskalev! Paskalev opposed every attempt by Italians, Portuguese, even the king. He therefore left, as a matter of fact, to be revived in any way the concession in question. The concession decision was made long after Paskalev resigned from the cabinet of the triple coalition. I won't mention the minister's name because he's already dead. God forgive him! He submitted the draft decision from the Council of Ministers, but by looking for the boy check in the Law Office and in the electronic reference of the Supreme Administrative Court, who was the boy-lawyer who filed a complaint against the Council of Ministers' Decision? [[Applause from GERB.]] I ask you, why the Council of Ministers then? Because of my complaint, this boy, has classified the entire procedure for the Thracian highway. Thank you to Mr. Dobrev for recalling the true solution for highway Trakiya. You have amended the Law on concessions so that you can pay for the unachieved traffic only because of this you amended the Law in 2006. The true solution is this with European funds, with your own funds and therefore, honourable colleagues, so we do not pay 50 BGN. once from Sofia to Burgas. That's why! [[Applause from GERB Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u147	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Stoinev, your time has come for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u148	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief. Dear colleagues, because you tried to make an attempt at provocation, after all, what was given as an example concerns the Law on Underground Treasures. It would be nice to have this Law on concessions and we have insisted on watching the Law on Underground Treasures, because then I assure you that we would indeed have found, in my view, the right solution, because this Law must also be touched. But I strongly object to the insinuations that it is almost attributed to this future locality down to have it entirely to GERB because it is not. You can ask about the work we have done for what we have given as support, for conversations about many things that have been tangled by you, which we then fixed. Just because we didn't go to the media, that we didn't explain ourselves doesn't mean that it wasn't working on this particular site, because the President of...... is aware of what was done and the full support they had. Secondly, let us not forget that there was almost there inside, around Plevensko, there will be a stream of oil flowing, for which 2011 - 2012 was explained to the people who were a complete screw-up and a PR action.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u149	For a personal explanation, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u150	Let us not forget that there were concessions which, because of the weak control that was created, unfortunately, people have gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u151	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Now I'll give you the floor on how to conduct it. Just so you know, we're looking at the concession law right now. Don't stray, please! Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, and then Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u152	Mrs. Chairman! Here, just now, Mr. Lazarov asked you in all the discussions to stick to the topic we are discussing right now. Mr. Dobrev, even at the risk of taking a personal explanation of three minutes and ten seconds of speaking, said two minutes and forty-five seconds on a completely different Law, even he admitted that thing. Then you violated the Rules by giving a personal explanation for the definition that a boy was the head of the minister's office. Did it affect him with anything, did it offend him that he got up to take the floor? [[Noise and lines.]] Or it's some form and way to take the floor and start making excuses for things you might have a reason for, maybe you don't. Mr. Stoynev was offended because as Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u153	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u154	That's why, yes, you're right. It was a dialogue we shouldn't have started.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u155	Do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber and do not lawyer Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u156	I will explain to him why Mr. Stoynev, as Minister, was offended for a job he had done, including me, according to the Tantalus and under this concession. That's another topic. So I ask you very much, from now on, when it comes to discussing the Law on concessions, let's not transfer the ball, why are you beating the Negroes for example and who, what, when and how he has done, and see the really deep errors in this Law, which is proposed to us at least with political assessments, and on them to focus and there to look for the arguments.................................................................................................................... Very much, please, otherwise you're missing the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u157	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov, for the advice. Just to say that I gave the floor to Mr. Kirilov, who was not mentioned by name, but on the same occasion I gave the word to Mr. Stoinev, who was also not mentioned by name. Mr. Dobrev, come in. About the way you're running things? Here you go. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u158	Madam President, I allow myself to make a sharp remark to you that you are allowing a procedure in the manner of conduct in which someone is speaking essentially and not even by this Law, but by another Law, which I first started talking about. [[Noise.]] I suggest we get back to the subject. My speech was provoked by the attempt to give some bad example of concession with Plovdiv airport and to pay attention to colleagues that it is better not to enter this dialogue and in the exchange of examples, because we certainly have many more and uglier examples than you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u159	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. We're moving on to Mr. Bojankov's statement, please. [[Noise and applause from the BSP group.]] Your colleagues are very happy, I don't know what you're planning to say. It should be interesting. Excuse me for a moment. Let's congratulate our guests are a group of Dobrich district. [[Applause.]] Come in for a statement, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u160	Madam President, honourable Members! Unfortunately, I'm not from the past, I'm from the present, I can't deal with your old intrigues so I don't use a heavier word. With regard to the Law and the way it was inserted. It is clear that importers do not recognise the reasons of the veto and do not refer to them. I would like to point out that, fellow Members, you are wrong. The last motive of the president's veto states that: "Not enough discussion has been held in the National Assembly and in the society. Let me remind you how you read the Committee on the Environment when considering the Bill. The importer Mr. Kirilov, when asked questions by the MPs of BSP answered that he is not an importer, he is only a fictitious importer. The real one is the Council of Ministers, and he cannot answer the questions and we must wait for the representatives of the Council of Ministers. The representatives of the Council of Ministers did not come and logically from BSP proposed that we postpone the meeting for next week so that we could ask our questions. To this question we were told no, we are going to vote and suddenly it turns out that the importer is in the Chamber. Because the importer is in the room, we can vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u161	In essence, Mr. Bozhankov, don't repeat your stories, talk about them.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u162	I am telling it with the very clear thought that the president's veto is justified. Debate is missing. No representative from the BSP could ask himself the question. As a lawyer, I may be young, perhaps I lack experience, but I ask myself: what is this magical function of the importer: when people ask questions, he cannot answer because he is not an importer when we have to vote, suddenly he becomes an importer and we can vote. That sounds funny, and it would be funny if it wasn't for such a serious bill. This speaks of the attitude of the government to the legislative process and certainly not well.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u163	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. [[Applause from the BSP group.]] - What's the line? I won't. A statement? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u164	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Before I approach the Law briefly, I mean, I couldn't have said the stated things because I've never been to the Environmental Commission to report this bill. However, I step to the point, taking the occasion of these specific accusations. In no way doubt that the importers stand entirely behind the Bill, which was adopted as a Law in the 43rd National Assembly. We have neither hesitation nor in any way made any schizophrenic claims to distinguish ourselves from that Law and from that Bill. For us, legislative logic is correct, consistent and continuous. We adopted a Law in the 43rd National Assembly, yes, under the pressure of time, but we did the work required of us as a legislative body, and I think we did it wonderfully in view of the political situation that was in the last few days and with the expiry of the mandate and the legislation of the 43rd National Assembly. You're asking very strongly for the president's veto to be respected. And here I ask to be heard carefully. We're neglecting the President's will. Yes, it was at the wrong time expressed, it was his first time, he had a feeling and an impression in society that it was a purely election move to create a certain political lead for one of the participants in the elections. Let's forget all this, fellows! In some of the committees' debates, one or another of the President's claims was commented on in the President's motives. I'm not going into a detailed commentary. Colleagues of the Council of Ministers, whom I thank for being here and in this debate, have done a detailed development of a statement, correspondence with a legal norm and reasons why this cannot be affected, but I do not want to aggravate the interinstitutional dialogue here on these arguments, I do not want to say anything that might sound ridiculous or disrespectful to the legal thought of some of the officials in the Presidency. I will do the opposite: I will invite the Presidency, the legal team, if this Bill is adopted at first reading and we will proceed to work at second reading, respectively, with proposals between first and second reading, as far as I am responsible for the organisation of the work of the Legal Committee. Here I invite the legal experts of the Presidency to take and participate in each of the meetings, each of the forms, if we have to make a working group, let them participate in a working group, if we are directly at the debate at the second reading in the Commission, let them order this debate. I believe that this will in no way violate the division of authorities, but, on the contrary, help improve the uniqueness of the public interpretation of complex legal institutes which have been developed here, and I say they have been developed in the best possible way so far. I do not want to make a complete review and parallel of all the concessions laws that are between 1996 and now, but I believe that in the specific procedure, in the specific situation with the application of the concession directive, we... Yes, we are pressurized by the time, but we have the opportunity to get a serious benefit for Bulgarian law, a serious benefit for the development of the investment process in the state, a serious benefit for publicity in the management of municipal and state property and transparency. I therefore appeal to all my fellow Members to support this bill at first reading. I'm not wasting any more parliamentary time. I apologize if I sounded emotionally at some previous moments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u165	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Do you have any lines, colleagues? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote the Law on concessions, No 754-01-13, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017. Please vote. Vote 192 MPs: 124, against 68, no abstentions. [[Applause from GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]] The bill was passed in the first vote. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u166	Since we have heard, Mr President, honourable Members, very nice proposals, I propose that the period between first and second reading be three weeks, so that all this essence which has spilled here on the microphone from this side, on this side, and on this side, and on all, will find a place with the proposals that will be made between first and second readings, so I propose the maximum term under the Rules of Procedure three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u167	Thank you. A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u168	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In fact, I would like to say that, with the adoption of first reading, I believe that we have largely implemented one of the time limits on June 15th of the general monitoring for all countries of implementation of the concession directive, to be able to say that there is a new draft adopted in Bulgaria at first reading. For this reason, I believe that with a decision of our group, we will support the longest possible deadline. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Manol Genov. Vote 186 MPs: 184 against 1, abstention 1. The proposal to extend the deadline has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-08.u169	Parliamentary Control Communication on 9 June 2017, Friday, 9:00 p.m. 1. Debate on a request from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov to the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on a strategy for the development of hospital care facilities in the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. Debate on a question by the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev and Manol Genov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works for the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. Questions and questions to: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will answer a question from the National Representative Elena Yoncheva and a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov will answer two questions from the MPs Jayhan Ibryamov and Teodora Halacheva; - Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer four questions from the MPs Vasil Antonov, Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov, Ivo Hristov with two questions and one question from the MPs Tasko Ermenkov and Ivan Genov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer six questions from the MPs Manol Genov, Stanislav Vladimirov, Valentin Milushev and Stanislav Ivanov, Dragomir Stoinev and Nikola Dinkov, Nadia Klisurska-Zekova, Jordan Mladenov and Ivan Mihovski; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer four questions from the MPs Nina Mitkova "two questions, Irena Anastasova and Petar Vitanov and one question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer three questions from the MPs Miglena Alexandrova, Georgi Stoilov, Pencho Milkov and Krum Zarkov, Yordan Mladenov and Nadia Klisurska-Zhekova; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer a question from the MPs Krasimir Jankov and Daniel Yordanov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer a question from the MPs Mihail Hristov, Anton Kutev and Georgi Gokov; - Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to a question from the MP Miglena Alexandrova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Judicial Reform and Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva to a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov of a question by the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Yordan Mladenov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov of a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova. Due to the need for presence on the day for visiting the high-ranking guests of the exercise "Balkan Dragger" "Integrating joint preparation between the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic," the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov will not participate in the meeting for parliamentary control. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev will also not participate. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. We start tomorrow at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
