ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u1	I'm opening the meeting, there's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members, allow me to present: Program for the Work of the National Assembly for 25 and 26 May 2017. The programme was specified and adopted unanimously by the Conference of Presidents. 1. Report on the Commission's activities on the revocation of illegally acquired property in 2016. Imported is the Commission on the revocation of illegally acquired property on 11 May 2017. 2. Draft Decision on the adoption of internal rules for the work of the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. The Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act on 19 May 2017. 3. Parliamentary control to be held tomorrow, Friday, 26 May 2017, with a proposal to start at 9:00 p.m. This is the proposal of the Conference of Presidents. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria are not going to support this agenda because we believe that it is not normal for Parliament to work today and not to vote on any bill tomorrow! We believe that the committees have already been formed, there are laws tabled by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Moreover, perhaps today we will have a meeting no more than 15 minutes, but the scarier thing is that there is no initiative on the part of the government as well. Why am I saying this? Because when GERB won the elections, you clearly and categorically stated that you have a prepared programme, ready priorities behind which you stand, and that you are, of course, ready for a legislative initiative. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, since May 19th, there has been a letter from Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova's chief of staff to all ministers, in which I quote: The deadline is June 1st, 2017 That is, by June 1st, we will have a government that does not have a programme, a government that will not protect its promises to Bulgarian citizens...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u3	Mr. Stoynev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u4	...which in no way will comply with the vote of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u5	Mr. Stoynev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u6	Five seconds, Mr. Chairman. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is not normal for Parliament to function this way! We from BSP for Bulgaria and we appeal faster to look at legislative initiatives, to get into the rhythm as expected by Bulgarian citizens, because really what is being done at the moment does not meet the expectations of the Bulgarian voter. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP left Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u7	Thank you. The matter was discussed at the Conference of Presidents. Mr. Stoynev was not so clear there, accepted the agenda, made it clear that there is no way to interfere with the work of the executive. I'm just wondering why you're repeating all this again. What you have just done is unacceptable interference in the work of the executive, and as for the other, we have made it clear to the Conference of Presidents that this is the work of the committee's managements, which bill to be dealt with, and it seems to me that you have agreed to what we said at the time. We vote on the agenda. [[National Representative Danail Kirilov wants the floor for procedure.]] There will be an opportunity in the manner of conduct to exercise the procedure. Vote 192 MPs: 120, against 64, abstention 8. The agenda has been adopted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u8	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am taking a procedure in the manner of reproaching you because you gave the floor on the agenda to a colleague who reasoned with some general considerations which, by the way, we heard on a television broadcast last night that was not related to the agenda. Firstly, on the agenda, a procedure is given when specific proposals are made to move items on the agenda, even if it is debatable whether an ad-hoc proposal for inclusion of new points can be made on the agenda, but it is unacceptable to make common reasoning, political suggestion. Why? Because a parliamentary group had introduced three bills that were reheated by the last Parliament. [[Applause from GERB.]] Please consider the following! There is another list of 17 bills that are waiting and are in one degree or another of criminal proceedings. The first of these is the Law on concessions, returned with the President's veto in the period when there was no Parliament, and this Law next week our parliamentary group will also submit it as a priority. [[Replys from BSP left Bulgaria.]] Dear colleagues, ask yourself how the president responds to veto. [[(Noise and lines "Eee!" by "BSP left Bulgaria", applause and shouts ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u9	He is the President of Bulgaria!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u10	I missed the next argument about how to conduct the same subject and in order to respond to the unfounded attacks, you did not give me the floor before the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u11	Procedure! Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u12	Bills and draft decisions for the period 17 23 May 2017 On 17 May 2017, the Bulgarian Sign Language Act was adopted. The representatives are Georgi Gyokov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and to the Committee on Education and Science. On the same date a Report on the activities of the Electronic Media Board was received for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2016. It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. On the same date, 17 May 2017, a Report on the activities of the Fiscal Council for 2016. The Chairman of the Fiscal Council is the importer. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 18 May 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Food Act was adopted. The importer is Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Agriculture and Food and to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. On 18 May 2017, the Energy Act was adopted to supplement the Energy Act. Importer is the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. A leading committee to examine the bill is the Energy Commission. On 19 May 2017 a draft decision for the adoption of an updated national research strategy for the Republic of Bulgaria from 2017 to 2030 was received. It is allocated to the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. On 18 May 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 18 May 2017 to 18 May 2017 (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). No 702-00-9, the National Assembly received a Report on the activities of the Agency for State Financial Inspection for 2016, for information. By letter of the President of the National Assembly the report was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and was available to the MPs in the library of the National Assembly. The Council of Ministers shall, on the basis of art. 105, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in the National Assembly have received for information an update for 2017 of the National Reform Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of the Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 and approved by Decision No 280 of the Council of Ministers of 2017, and the Convergence Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria from 2017 to 2020, approved by Decision No 284 of the Council of Ministers of 2017. By letters of the President, the materials are presented to all Standing Committees and are available in the Library of the National Assembly. Before we continue, honourable Members, allow me to call on you to welcome representatives of the academic youth from various higher education institutions in Sofia, which are our guests, to the balcony, to the right of me. [[Applause.]] Come in for a statement, dear Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u13	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The declaration of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is on the occasion of May 24th. It's true, the holiday is over. However, due to the fact that the National Assembly was not working on Monday and Tuesday, I think that little we can get out of the protocol, as the holiday is extremely important for the whole of Bulgaria, and today to hear our declaration. Every year 24 May "The Day of Slavic Writing and Bulgarian Education and Culture" is an occasion to turn with gratitude, respect and respect to the numerous actors of Bulgarian education and culture, to all who, in the years of transition, have resisted a policy through which the spheres of Bulgarian spirituality have been treated as a market and goods, to the underage result of the residual principle of distribution of funds for education, science and culture, the lack of real commitment of responsible state institutions, especially to the problems faced by the Bulgarian school, to criminally underestimate the importance of education, science and art as essential factors for preserving the Bulgarian spirit and traditions. Bow to the fact that all scientists of science, education and science have resisted! Bow to the fact that they still preserved the faith and power of the spirit! Bow to Bulgarian teachers who enter the classrooms every day and stand before the future of Bulgaria with the will of our children to be able to light the spark of knowledge in their souls and in the hope that society will respectfully appreciate their work! Bow to the university lecturers and scientists of Bulgaria, who, despite the systematic underfinancing and the impunity of social experiments, continue the best traditions of Bulgarian science and create future specialists for all spheres of our society. Bow to artists for their dedication and for their efforts to reach the minds and hearts of the Bulgarians in the timeless national and universal values. For us, the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria, solving the problems of education and culture is a priority. In our parliamentary activity, we will stand for all commitments in the BSP's Election Programme: a strong increase in public education costs to reach 5% of gross domestic product within the next 4 years; urgent changes in the Pre-school and School Education Act and the Sub-Law; stimulating young people to acquire teaching skills and to pursue the profession; legislative changes to ensure real care for the child and student by all institutions with specific commitments and deadlines in which they are implemented; legislative changes to create conditions for good education and small settlements; special attention to strengthening and developing public scientific organisations, including a significant increase in funds in the state budget for R &amp; D Dear teachers, teachers, scientists of science and culture! You are the guardians of the national spirit, morality and tradition. You are the ones who have developed in time the great work of the holy brothers Cyril and Methodius, a Bulgarian work that influenced the cultural and spiritual growth of all glory. In this sense, the future of our country is in your hands. We have the obligation and the high responsibility to support you in every significant and patriotic endeavor. And we do. And with a reverse date, Happy Holiday to all of them! Happy Thanksgiving to us too, colleagues! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u14	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. We are continuing to work on our adopted Programme, where point one is: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION TO TAKE OFF OF UNLAWFULLY ACCOMPANYING IN 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u15	Declaration!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u16	After this point. Importer of the Report is the Commission for the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, 11 May 2017. With the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs you will probably be acquainted with the national representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u17	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Allow me before presenting the report to you, to request a procedure for admission to plenary on the grounds of art. 49, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, for Mr. Plamen Georgiev, President of the Commission for the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u18	Please vote on a tolerance procedure. Vote 172 MPs: 169 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Georgiev to the hall. Go on, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u19	Thank you, Madam President. "COMMODITY" on a report on the Commission's activity on the revocation of illegally acquired property in 2016, No 720-00-2, submitted by the Commission on the revocation of illegally acquired property on 11 May 2017. At its meeting held on 17 May 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Report on the Commission's activities on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in 2016, No 720 00 The meeting was attended by the Commission for the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property: Mr. Ivo Ivanov, Vice-President, and Mr. Trifon Trifonov, Secretary-General. The report on the Commission's activities on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in 2016, hereinafter referred to as the "St. Ivo Ivanov', was presented by Mr. Ivo Ivanov. He noted that the purpose of the report was to present the organisation of the Commission's work, the results achieved in its activities of establishing, guaranteeing and withdrawing assets acquired from criminal and illegal activities, as well as the institutional and international cooperation carried out by the Commission during the same period. With the entry into force of the amendments in December 2016, the Law on withdrawal in favour of the state of illegally acquired property is expected to increase the number of proceedings initiated due to a reduction of the gap between the property and the net income for the entire verified period of 250 000 BGN. £150,000. In 2016, the Commission's numerical composition was 198 employees, with Mr. Ivanov pointing out that the main reason not to employ the statutory figures is insufficient financial resources. Since the beginning of the Commission's work more than 81 000 000 BGN have been collected. In 2016, according to the Law for withdrawal in favour of the state of illegally acquired property, the total value of BGN 1 899 849,84 was revoked. The Commission's activities shall cover the completion of the outstanding checks and proceedings under the terms and conditions of the repealed Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of property acquired from criminal activity which envisaged the entry into force of a sentence, as well as the checks and proceedings under the current law. According to § 5 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the repealed Act, in 2016, the Commission took one decision to initiate proceedings for the establishment of property acquired from criminal activity. In this respect, the Commission has also taken three decisions to submit reasoned requests for interim measures on reports by the directors of the territorial directorates. The total amount of the claims lodged in 2016 amounted to BGN 1 119 583,83. The comparative data from the previous years on crimes, the attraction to which execution is a prerequisite for initiating an inspection, show that the share of the crimes under art. 252 of the Penal Code (illegal banking activity), under art. 321 of the Criminal Code (organization, participation and membership of an organized criminal group), under art. 354a of the Criminal Code (retention and distribution of drugs) and others. On the basis of reasoned conclusions of the directors of the territorial directorates in 2016, the Commission took nine decisions to submit reasoned requests for withdrawal in favour of the State of property acquired from criminal activity under the repealed law. The number of actions lodged for revocation decreased compared to the previous years, resulting from the gradual exhaustion of the potential of the repealed Act for the benefit of the State of property acquired by criminal activity. In 2016, 31 court decisions on the forfeiture of property acquired from criminal activity totaled BGN 16 874,45.50 entered into force. In relation to the same period, a positive result has been reported in the Commission's activities, with four of the judicial decisions on the forfeiture of property worth more than 1 million. lv. The Commission's territorial units received 1,94 notifications of 2,857 persons. All notifications have been received on the basis of art. 25 of the Law on withdrawal in favour of the state of illegally acquired property by the respective monitoring prosecutors. 2 324 inspections were initiated on the notifications received. The analysis of the crimes, the attraction for which it is a prerequisite for initiating a check under the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of illegally acquired property shows that in 2016 with the largest share of the total number of the drugs and their analogues (Art. 48,54) are the crimes related to the drugs and their analogues (Art. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: 354c of the Criminal Code) followed by crimes related to fraud (Art. Article 209 212a of the Criminal Code), 17.30 of the 100 cases under art. 321 of the Criminal Code (organization, participation and membership of an organized criminal group), crimes against the financial and tax system (Art. Art. 253 to Art. 253 260, para. 1 of the Penal Code) "6.41 per cent, and 17.47 per cent are other crimes falling within the scope of art. 22, para. 1 of the Law. [[Noise and lines at the bottom of the hall.]] I ask that you keep the President of the Commission safe for the forfeiture of the illegally acquired property. The proceedings initiated by the Commission in 2016 shall be 53 according to art. 21, para. The Commission therefore concludes that the State aid granted by the State in favour of the State of illegally acquired property is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that it is incompatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. lv. In 2016, the Commission adopted a decision to bring 34 claims for revocation in favour of the state of illegally acquired property, with the total value of the claims lodged in the courts being BGN 2 227 362 875,67. The Commission's aim is to provide electronic access to the database of most institutions in the country to speed up the processing of the information flow in order to complete the checks within more optimal periods than the statutory ones. Currently, there is access to the database of: Customs Agency, Bulgarian Identity Documents Department at the Ministry of Interior, Central Register for Special Bets, Trade Register, National Revenue Agency, two banks, Interpol and others. The Prosecution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior and the State Agency of National Security have concluded cooperation agreements. At the request of the Commission, 9 checks have been carried out to establish movable and immovable property acquired from illegal activities abroad. 51 requests were received for verification of movable and immovable property of persons investigated in other countries. In the discussion of the report took part the MPs: Philip Popov, Hamid Hamid, Yavor Bojankov, Emil Dimitrov, Krum Zarkov and Daniel Kirilov. All Members of the Parliament expressed support for the results of the Commission's activities. People's representatives Filip Popov, Danail Kirilov, Hamid Hamid and Krum Zarkov raised questions about the need for legislative change in relation to the manner of disposal of the confiscated property by the Commission, securing the financial resources needed by the Commission to complete the unoccupied staff and the workload of its expert staff. In response, Mr. Ivanov pointed out that the Commission's activities regarding the confiscated property ended with the removal of an executive list and an inter-agency council proposed to the Council of Ministers to provide for the management of budgetary organizations and municipalities of the confiscated property. He stressed that the disposal mechanism for the confiscated property should be refined in the direction of an extension of the amount of seized property to be provided for social purposes. Mr. Ivanov stressed that due to insufficient funding in 2016 a total of 198 positions of 310 established and each inspector processed between 60 and 100 files on average, not including the procedural representation carried out by the inspectors. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 19 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Project! DECISION in relation to the Commission's Activity Report on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 15, para. 1 of the Law on withdrawal in favour of the state of illegally acquired property, in relation to art. 90, para. 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the Commission's activities on the revocation of illegally acquired property for 2016. The decision was adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly and is sealed with the official seal of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. The Commission's opinion on the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics follows. Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u21	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention: "COMMODITY" of the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Commission on a report on the Commission's activity on the revocation of illegally acquired property in 2016, No 720-00-2, submitted by the Commission on the revocation of illegally acquired property on 11 May 2017. At its meeting held on 18 May 2017, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Commission examined a Report on the Commission's activities for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property (CONPI) in 2016, No 720-00-2, submitted by the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property on 11 May 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Plamen Georgiev, Chairman of the CONPI and Mr. Ivo Ivanov, Deputy Chairman. The annual activity report of the CONPI for 2016 was presented by Mr. Plamen Georgiev. During the reporting period, the Commission worked in accordance with two legal acts, which were repealed in 2012. Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of property acquired from criminal activity and the Law on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property introduced by the Institute of Civil confiscation in the same year. The Commission's activities during the period cover both the completion of the outstanding checks and proceedings under the conditions and under the old Law, as well as the work on the newly established checks and proceedings under the current law. In relation to the update of the regulatory framework, the amendments to the Convention of December 2016 which have entered into force, which reduced the amount of the non-compliance claimed and between the property and the net income for the entire verified period of 250 thousand, were also mentioned. 150 thousand BGN, with increased efficiency of the CONPI expected and an increase in the number of proceedings initiated by the Commission. In addition, these changes aim at establishing more efficient rules for the confiscation of assets that are not directly related to a specific crime. The report notes that the assets forfeited in favour of the State in 2016 amounted to a total of 18 million. 698 thousand. BGN 574. and this is an achievement in the Commission's work so far. The total amount of claims lodged in 2016 amounts to 1 billion. 119 million. 583 thousand. 83 leva. Their number decreases compared to previous years, and the reason is the gradual exhaustion of the potential of the repealed Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of property acquired from criminal activity. The comparison of the previous years data on the offences that have become the basis for the initiation of inspections under the ZONPI shows that the share of those relating to illegal banking activities, organisation, participation and membership in an organised criminal group, the holding and distribution of drugs, crimes against the financial and tax system, etc. is the largest. Another problem posed by the President of the CONPI is that related to the Commission's insufficient budget. It was pointed out that the established numerical composition, including its administration for 2016. is 310 stats, according to the current Rules of Procedure, and only 198 units were employed as of 31 December 2016. In 2016, the problem of providing sufficient financial resources to complete its numerical composition remains unresolved and the necessary building fund which prevents the achievement of maximum results. In the discussion of the report took part the MPs: Boris Yachev, Simeon Naydenov, Milko Nedyalkov, Slavi Netsov, Spas Gurnevski and Anton Todorov. The question was raised as to the need for legislative change in relation to the manner of disposal of the assets taken away for the benefit of the State, as well as the precision of the arrangements in the direction of expansion of the possibilities for this property to be provided for social purposes. Following the discussion, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Committee unanimously with 8 votes in favour of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u22	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr President of the Commission! The Commission is one of the few institutions for which the European Commission found good words in its latest report. Moreover, the report paid particular attention to the fact that the new anti-corruption legislation, which I hope will soon again be able to look at, should step on what has been built so far, not risk disrupting the built-up rhythm through the mechanical merger of organs, which is also part of this Commission. The Commission is working well and this is evident from its report, which we from the parliamentary group BSP will support for Bulgaria. However, the Commission has major problems. The great one of them, in our view, is the discrepancy between the enormous expectations of it, the material interest that it encounters, and its small personal and personnel. By state, the Commission has 310 stats, but lastingly, as it became clear from the reports, only 198 are employed. What we didn't say is that of these 198 people, only 126 are inspectors. These are economists inspectors, lawyers inspectors who have to work on dozens of files at the same time. It is not possible for one person to process quality 60, 100, 110 files, each of which affects a number of legal and natural persons and represents a great economic and legal complexity. A possible error in the work of the inspector is always dramatic. It means either that someone to whom the property must be taken will continue to take advantage of it, or, no less frightening, that someone whose property is inviolable will be protected, prohibited or otherwise secured. In other words, the responsibility of inspectors and the College of Commissioners is enormous, and we must provide these people with the necessary working conditions. But we must also not forget this report is a very convenient occasion for why the specific withdrawal status and the special authority Commission were created in 2005. This is not a punishment body, but a prevention institute. He must ensure that even if someone succeeds in committing a crime, he or she will not be able to take advantage of the benefits he receives. That is why the work of this Commission is meaningless when people whose property has been taken from it continue to benefit from it. Some scammers continue to live in their expensive houses and drive their luxury cars. This is visible with the naked eye. Even scarier, it is often the subject of reports. The problem with the seized property under this Law is huge and very important and is often underestimated. Since the Commission exists, according to the Report that we are looking at, it has taken away more than 81 million leva worth of property, cars, houses and other items, many of which can hardly be sold, and their conservation, and even their use, costs money. That cannot, of course, be a reason to let the people who took such property enjoy it. Here things need to be clear, because the responsibility is not the responsibility of the Commission. The responsibility here lies with the executive. Article 87 of the Law establishes an Interdepartmental Council not for an order, as was said in the report of the Legal Commission, but for the management of the seized property, the difference is huge. Deputy Ministers of Justice, Economy, Labour and Social Policy, Regional Development and Public Works are also taking part in this Council, which is chaired by the Deputy Minister of Finance. The Council must assess which property will be sold, which will be provided to other budgetary organisations or others, according to art. 90, para. 5 at least 30 percent of this property must be used for social purposes, and 10 per cent of this property must be devoted to the staffing, qualification and promotion of the Commission staff. Unfortunately, none of this happened. Although the Interdepartmental Council is obliged by Law to meet at least once every two months, according to the Father presented to us today, the Council of Ministers has only adopted seven decisions in this order. Therefore, let us not wait for the next television report, but pay attention to the relevant ministers not to repeat the mistakes of their predecessors, not to neglect the process of management of the confiscated property, because confiscation makes sense only when it is visible and evident to all, and at the moment the only visible and obvious to all is the powerlessness of the state over several insolent bandits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u24	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. For your treatment Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me first wish a fruitful work at the Forty-fourth National Assembly. We thank the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, with which we have already had the opportunity to discuss the Commission's Activity Report on Illegally Acquired Assets in 2016 and to present to them the successes achieved and the problems we face in our work. We are encouraged by the understanding shown. I will agree with everything that has been said so far by those who have spoken before, and they have very rightly marked what we have achieved and the problems that are to be solved in view of our work. Just for the sake of clarity, the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property is working under two laws. The Law on the withdrawal of property acquired from criminal activity which was in effect until the end of 2012 and the Law on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property which has been in force since the end of 2012. Therefore, the Report reports results under both laws. Without going into details, I will only mark a few numbers that are indicative of the Commission's activity. Before that, however, I would like to point out that this year the Report has been prepared not only for 2016 but we have provided a summary of the entire period of the establishment of the Commission for the establishment of assets acquired from criminal activity in 2005 and data on the period after the adoption of the new Law on withdrawal in favour of the State of Illegally Acquired Property in 2012, which has already introduced civil confiscation in the Republic of Bulgaria. It can be concluded from this data that over the years the Commission has demonstrated its effectiveness in order to prevent the recovery of benefits from illegal activities through restrictions on ownership and the withdrawal of property acquired from criminal or illegal activities. Some conclusions can also be drawn on the operation and development of this mechanism during the 11-year period of its creation and what are the new moments ahead. I dare say, in a positive way, things are going forward, and this will become clear from the figures that I will allow myself to point out to you. I return very briefly to the summary data. In 2016, the Commission's territorial units received 1994 notifications under the Law on withdrawal in favour of the State of illegally acquired property for 2857 persons. The difference comes from certain notifications indicating more than one person being charged. 2324 inspections were initiated on the notifications received. The difference here is that the prosecution is obliged to inform us of the proceedings initiated only without pressing charges. But when production is formed, we have no way to start checking against the person. For the period after the entry into force of the Law on withdrawal in favour of the State of illegally acquired property from 19 November 2012 until the end of 2015, a total of 8152 notifications were received in respect of 10 104 persons on the basis of which 8001 inspections were initiated. In the accounting year 2016, the Commission adopted three decisions to submit reasoned requests for precautionary measures pursuant to the repealed Act for the benefit of the State of property acquired from a criminal activity of 1 million. 119,000. BGN 583. and 60 requests to secure future claims under the current Law on withdrawal in favour of the State of illegally acquired property worth 1 billion. 657 million. 604 thousand. £690. In 2016, the Commission took nine decisions to submit reasoned requests for withdrawal in favour of the State of property acquired from a criminal activity worth 4 million. 224 thousand. £86. Under the repealed Law and 34, it seeks the revocation of illegally acquired property already under the new Law, which is worth 2 billion. Two hundred and 362,000. £875. Compared to the previous years, there is a decline in the claims submitted to the court to impose precautionary measures and motivated requests for the withdrawal of property acquired from criminal activity, and this is quite natural. As I said, this Law is already running out of action. However, there is a huge increase in all indicators in the work on the new Law on withdrawal in favour of the state of illegally acquired property and this is logical. Many of the checks under this Law have already been completed and are therefore undergoing development. Precautionary measures are imposed, requests are filed to the court for the revocation of illegally acquired property. In 2016, 31 judgments under the Law on the revocation of property acquired from criminal activity of a total value of 16 million entered into force. 874 thousand. BGN 445. and five decisions on the forfeiture of illegally acquired property already under the new Law worth 1 million. 899 thousand. BGN 849. In total, during the accounting year, the court respected 36 requests from the Commission. The total amount of the seized property, as well as the previous ones said, is 18 million. 774 thousand. BGN 295. This is the highest amount of seized property in one year during the entire period of existence of the Commission. Let me just point out that this year also started extremely successfully, even though we are not discussing this year's report. In this year, only up to the present time, that is to say, before the end of May, the Commission has already taken away assets with final decisions of the court worth 14 million. 724 thousand. BGN 551. If this trend is maintained, it will definitely 2017 be another successful year in the history of the Commission. For the 11-year period of the Commission, from 2005 to 2016, the value of the confiscated property, according to the decision-making process already in force, amounts to 81 million. $435,000. BGN 680, including 216 solutions worth 79 million. 349 thousand. lv. According to the repealed Law and six decisions worth 2 million. 86,000. lv. under the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State illegally acquired property the civil confiscation of the new Law. Of course, it takes time there. The branches are three. There are already over 100 submitted claims under the new Law, which are yet to yield their fruit. I've already told you that over two billion is the secured property there. These are the data that illustrate the Commission's activities, and I think they do not need any comment. Undoubtedly, however, the effectiveness of the work cannot be measured only by the number of checks, the postures imposed and the withdrawal claims. I would like to remind myself that it is no coincidence that when adopting the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the state of illegally acquired property, the emphasis was placed on social justice and, more precisely, on the feeling of inaccessibility and impunity, which strongly embodys the sense of justice and the principle of rule of law. In this regard, I fully agree with what Mr. Zarkov said before me. I would really like to put before you a problem that is not related to our direct work, but has a strong impact on the trust of citizens and the state institutions in the Commission's work. It is about the management of the seized property and, in particular, that many people remain with the feeling of ineffective action of our body, of the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. This problem, by the way, was also discussed at the meeting of the two committees which adopted our report. The fact is that some of the property seized in favour of the state for one reason or another continue to be used by the persons from whom they were taken, and this is a very bad sign, especially for the people on the ground. They pay symbolic rents that are proportionate to the taxes that the person has to pay on a property, and for the people it is incomprehensible?? How is it that the state takes away a property with a final decision, the property continues to live on those from which the property is taken?! This is seen by the people and leads to mistrust in the activities of our Commission. Once again, I would like to stress that the Commission is finishing work with the receipt of an executive list which is being provided, which is being sent with the decisions of the Interdepartmental Council on the management of the seized property in force. In most cases, the Council has nothing to do but offer the Council of Ministers to provide the properties of the National Revenue Agency to sell them in accordance with the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. In practice, too often this sale proves impossible or is at a lower price. There have been reports on TV that show extremely expensive properties that are in neighborhoods that have no attraction. These properties cannot be sold at the price that is actually invested in their construction. Indeed, more flexible ways should be found to dispose of these properties. Of course, there are good examples of properties taken away by the Commission are provided for the needs of state institutions. Such properties are used by different municipalities; by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food; one property in Nessebar is provided for free management of the Ministry of Justice for the needs of the Registry Agency; one property is provided for the management of the district governor of the town of Pernik. There's a property that's also provided to a tax office. These are good examples, but they are very few, very few are proportionate to the loss of property. They're just a few examples. In our view, it would be appropriate to create a specialized structure, an independent state body or a directorate of a state office, which would take over only the functions of management of the secured and confiscated property by the prosecution under the order of the PPC and the NKK, as well as the property under the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of illegally acquired property and other special laws. This would be in accordance with Directive 2014/42 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the freezing and confiscation of funds and proceeds of criminal activity in the European Union. This directive obliges States to create such a body that deals only with this property, because it is undoubtedly also essential in public to see the power of the State that the seized property is actually taken away from those from whom it is taken and not to continue using it as bad examples. I have no doubt that this directive will soon be transposed precisely in the direction in which I have also shared with you either the creation of an independent agency or the directorate of an existing agency which, however, deals with the effective withdrawal of this property alone. I am continuing with common topics and several important points in the Commission's report on the Commission's work on interinstitutional and international cooperation. During the accounting year, contacts with different institutions have been made in connection with ensuring access to the electronic register containing information in art. 86 of the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of illegally acquired property, as well as the register of confiscated property by the Commission as an authorised institution under art. 56a, para. 3, p. 5 of the Credit Institutions Act. The Commission has already taken action in 2016 to ensure access to information from the electronic system on bank account numbers and their holders, authorised to dispose of accounts and persons, as well as of the persons who rent safes in banks and their proxy. This register is supported by the Bulgarian National Bank. In implementation of the instructions for the order and timing of the interaction between the Commission and the State Agency, the Ministry of Interior and the authorities of the Minister of Finance and Prosecutor's Office, as well as an Agreement on the establishment of a joint activity and joint teams between the Commission and the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, 20 joint teams were established in 2016 together with prosecutors who investigated cases of particular importance. As a result of effective cooperation with other departments and organisations in the period 2013 - 2016, the Commission authorities practically use electronic remote access to the information systems of all state institutions. Each inspector has an electronic signature, puts it in the computer and can have access anywhere to the NRA database, the NRA database, the DMV at all to all the databases of state institutions that he needs. Nine checks have been carried out on international exchange to establish movable and immovable property acquired from illegal criminal activity abroad. Even precautionary measures have been imposed on illegally acquired property abroad. On the same channels Karin, Sienna and Auro are partner institutions of the Commission, 51 requests have been received for checks of movable and immovable property on the territory of the country, which we have processed and responded to. The Commission has also established in 2016 that it continues to maintain a close relationship and cooperation with Interpol, Europol, Eurojust, Egmont Group, the International Criminal Court, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the United Nations Office for Drugs and Crime, OLAF and other bodies. With all these organs over the past year, one way or another, we have had to communicate. I think it doesn't sound far-fetched to say that the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property is very good in international institutions. We cooperate, we make inquiries to foreign services, and therefore we get a very good interaction, and in extremely short time. Representatives of the Commission participated actively in various workshops, meetings, international conferences and trainings in the country and abroad with partner institutions, where they had the opportunity to present the Bulgarian legislative framework. There is an outstanding interest in the citizens' occupations, because you probably know the citizens' occupations still works in not a very large number of countries of Europe... Bulgaria, Slovakia, Slovenia. There are elements in Italy, as well as in Spain, but there are not so many countries anyway, so often give us an example of how it can work effectively in the continental legal system in which Bulgaria is. Finally, I will take the liberty of paying attention to a problem that has been said and discussed by those who are talking about it is indeed lacking financial resources. Thirty-six percent of the Commission's statutory 310 staff are not employed. I appeal, of course, if there is a chance, to ensure that the budget is filled, because there are many checks. Some are extremely bulky, we're literally talking about tons of paper, classics. All this has to be read and people are overworked. I really think that, given this and the effectiveness we are achieving, it is appropriate to complete the composition of the Commission. I hereby conclude my statement on the Commission's Activity Report on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u26	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. I'm closing the debate. Before we go to the vote, let's welcome our guests from the Children's Parliament at the Middle School...................... the town of Karlovo. [[Applause.]] Thank you. I put to the vote a draft decision on the Commission's Activity Report on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in 2016: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 15, para. 1 of the Law on withdrawal in favour of the state of illegally acquired property, in relation to art. 90, para. 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the Commission's activities on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property for 2016. The decision was adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly on today's date, 2017, and is sealed with the official seal of the National Assembly. I'm voting on the draft decision. They voted 146 MPs: 132, none, abstention 14. The motion for a decision has been accepted. Before we move on to the next point,.. Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB. Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u27	Thank you, Madam President. As almost all of our fellow citizens know, and we, on Friday, on the eve of May 24 we wanted to use the time and congratulate all of our colleagues in the field of education and culture, but unfortunately from the left side of the room set another tone then and another discourse of the day, so today, even though the holiday was yesterday the best, the most Bulgarian, the most real holiday of May 24th, we believe that the energy it brings to the energy of spirituality, of literature, must have them, to follow them every day. We don't think it would be wrong to congratulate all our colleagues today. So, esteemed teachers, teachers and scientists, esteemed Bulgarian artists and people of speech and spirituality, honourable children, students, students and parents! 24 May is a day on which we bow our heads before the work of the holy brothers Cyril and Methodius, which gives us a worthy place in European and world civilization. 24 May is a feast that raises our national self-esteem, a feast for all who appreciate the education and the book. The words of Stoyan Mihajlovski's hymn are insubordinate to time. Today, more than ever, we need the power of literature to walk together on the path of progress forward to powerful enlightenment! This is the path that will lead our children to a safe and stable future. Ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that every reasonable person believes in the power of good education and we have the will to achieve it modernly, sustainablely, meeting the modern requirements, education that will give not only knowledge and skills to children, but also build them thinking, teach them to stand up for causes, to keep the eternal values and centuries-old traditions of our people. The development of education, science and culture of Bulgaria, the preservation of the Bulgarian spirit are our duty, responsibility and promise to the future of Bulgaria. Political party GERB will continue with high responsibility to fulfil its ambition for reform of Bulgarian education. The government's management programme has made very clear and concrete commitments for the development and improvement of its quality. Overcoming illiterateness is an important focus of this process. We know that every child has talent, every child has a chance of success and has to get it. We made clear commitments to Bulgarian teachers as the increase in wages is only one of them. Any Bulgarian teacher dedicated to the cause of good education of his students can rely on the support of state institutions and respect from the whole Bulgarian society. We want and will provide peace and freedom for colleagues to develop their innovative ideas and creativity. Thus the classroom will be a desirable place for both children and their teachers. Dear colleagues, today.... when technology is an integral part of human society, we are all obliged together to preserve the covenant of the holy brothers Cyril and Methodius and their students who continue their work. We must protect the flame of enlightenment, of the awake spirit, of daring. Today's children, students, students are our future. They are tomorrow's leaders of modern Bulgaria. It is up to all of us to have their parents, teachers, to be brave and honest, not to be afraid to ask, to argue and to pursue their happiness, not to give up their dreams, to learn with the same zeal and daring, with which our enlighteners, led by their bold ideas, have laid the foundations for a new spirituality and culture. These ideals: justice, patriotism, wisdom, dignity and honor, love of books and science have preserved Bulgarian nationalities throughout the centuries from the creation of the Bulgarian state to this day. They are also the key to successful realization in modern global society. We wish all creative successes and satisfaction with the work they are doing to preserve spirituality in order to remain the power of speech, of Bulgarian writing and culture and in the future one of our greatest virtues as a people! Be healthy and successful, esteemed teachers and enlighteners! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u28	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ACCEPT INTERNAL RULES FOR THE COMMISSION'S WORK FOR CONTROL OF SECURITY, APPLICATION AND USE OF SPECIAL RECOGNITION AND ACCESS TO DATA UNDER THE ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION LAW. Importer is the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act, 19 May 2017. Here you are, Mr. Lazarov, to report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u29	Madam President, honourable Members! I will allow myself to make a technical correction: ♪ I can't believe on the adoption of Internal Rules on the Organisation and Activity of the Commission for Control of the Services on the security, application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act At its regular meeting held on 18 May 2017, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act (the Commission), examined the Internal Rules for the Organization and Activity of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. The meeting was attended by all the members of the Commission. The draft Internal Rules was presented by the President of the Commission Mr. Dimitar Lazarov, who explained his main points. The document regulates the organisation and functioning of the Standing Committee in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. It lays down the subjects and the volume of parliamentary control and contains detailed rules concerning the holding of closed meetings, the procedure for their convening and decision-making. People's representatives Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Philip Popov took part in the discussion, who expressed support for the proposed rules. After the discussion, the Commission, with 9 votes for the resolution, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt proposals Project for a decision with the following wording: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the validation of the Internal Rules on the Organisation and Activity of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of the Special Intelligence Means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act The National Assembly on the basis of art. 18, para. 1, t. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Confirms the internal rules on the organisation and operation of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Madam President, I should now read text by text The rules. Internal rules on the organisation and operation of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the use and application of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. "Chapter 1" - General. Art. 1. These rules govern the organisation and functioning of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the use and application of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications under the 44th National Assembly on the grounds of art. 18, para. 1, t. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Art. 2. The Commission for Control of the Security Services, the use and application of special intelligence means and access to the data under the Law on Electronic Communications shall be a permanent committee in the 44th National Assembly on the basis of art. 17, para. 2, p. 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Art. 3. The Commission shall carry out its activities on the basis of the Constitution, the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, the Law on Special Intelligence, the Law on Electronic Communications, the Law on the State Agency Art. 4. The Commission shall consist of a President, two Vice-Presidents and members elected by the National Assembly in accordance with art. 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Art. 5. In accordance with the Bulgarian legislation, the Commission shall exercise parliamentary control over: 1. National Security Agency; 2.Study Agency; 3.The National Security Service; 4.Military information "Military information" service; 5. State Agency 6. The State Commission on Information Security; 7.National Bureau of Special Intelligence Control. Art. 6. The Commission exercises parliamentary control over the security services for the legality as well as the appropriateness of their actions based on the existing strategic documents on the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria and the concluded international treaties. Art. 7. The Commission shall be represented by its President and, in his absence, by an authorised Vice-President. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Decision and shall be responsible for the implementation and implementation of Art. 8. (1) The Commission shall hold regular and extraordinary meetings. (2) The Commission shall be convened at a meeting by its Chair on its own initiative, at the request of at least one third of the members or by the President of the National Assembly together with a draft agenda. (3) The meetings shall be chaired by the President of the Commission and, in his absence, by a Vice-President appointed by him. Art. 9. The President of the Commission shall announce in writing the agenda, time and place of meetings on the website of the National Assembly and by e-mail to the members of the Commission. The agenda of regular meetings shall be announced at least two days before their holding. In cases where extraordinary meetings are held, the agenda for them shall be announced at the same time as their timing. Art. 10. The Commission shall meet when more than half of its members are present. If, after the time for the opening of the meeting, the quorum is not available, the Commission may also meet with the composition available where it is not less than one third of all its members. Art. 11. Decisions shall be taken by a majority of the members of the Commission present. A complete audio recording and a stenographic protocol shall be carried out for the meetings of the Commission. The members of the Commission shall be signed on an attendance list which shall be annexed to the minutes of the meeting. Art. 12. (1) The meetings of the Commission shall be closed. They shall be present, in addition to its members and collaborators, only those who are expressly invited to be heard, and at the time when the topics on the agenda are discussed. (2) By decision of the Commission, Members of Parliament who are not members of the Commission may participate in its meetings without the right to vote. Art. 13. (1) In accordance with the principle of knowledge (Art. 39, para. 3 of the Board of Appeal), shall not be admitted to the meetings of the Commission of Members who are not members of the Board in cases where: 1. exercise control over completed files and completed operational affairs of the security services; 2. exercise control also of compliance with the procedures laid down in the laws and internal regulations in current operational affairs of the security services; 3. hear reports on the operational work of the services security and the state of individual components of the national security; 4. conduct hearings in relation to the actions of the security services concerning specific security situations of the country; 5. Considers other information to be classified as state secret according to Annex 1 to art. 25 of the Classified Information Protection Act. (2) The participation of Members of Parliament who are not members of the Commission in its closed meetings, the documents and the themes with which they have been acquainted shall be noted in a special protocol signed by the same Members. Art. 14. By decision of the Commission, its separate meetings may be opened and/or exported to the relevant offices, agencies and offices or outside the capital. Art. 15. The Commission shall apply the necessary means of protecting classified information, including during meetings. The President of the National Assembly shall ensure the protection of the House for Commission meetings against wiretapping, recording and monitoring. Art. 16. The President of the Commission shall ensure equal access for each member of the Commission to all available information. Art. 17. (1) The Commission for the Control of Security Services, the use and application of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications: 1. perform parliamentary control over the activities of the security services; 2. adopt opinions on the annual reports and budgets of the security services; 3. Within 14 days of its election, it shall adopt internal rules for work which shall be validated by the National Assembly; 4.He discussed in the deadlines laid down by the President of the National Assembly drafts, drafts for decisions, declarations and addresses of the National Assembly and prepared opinions on them. Where the Commission is the lead on a bill, it shall draw up the reports on its second vote; 5. Regularly requires thematic reports on the work of the security services and on the state of the individual components of national security; 6. organise hearings of current and former staff of the security services, including their superiors; 7. carry out checks on compliance with the regulations and respect for fundamental human rights in carrying out the activities of the security services; 8. examine and make recommendations for all internal regulations of the security services, including those containing classified information; 9. implements the special intelligence means Act and the Law on Electronic Communications parliamentary control and monitoring of the procedures under: (a) the authorisation, application and use of special means of intelligence, the storage and destruction of information obtained through them, as well as the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms against the unlawful use of special means of intelligence; (b) the authorisation and enforcement of access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, as well as the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms against unlawful access to such data. 10. present to the National Assembly annually by 31 May a report on the activities carried out under art. 18, para. 1, t. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which contains summary data on: (a) the authorisation, application and use of the special This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: the information received through them and the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms against the unlawful use of special intelligence means; (b) checks carried out and proposals to improve the procedures for storing and processing data under the Law on e-mails. 11. Views signals from citizens and organizations related to violations by staff of the security services, and proposals to improve their work; 12. shall refer to the Prosecutor's Office and other competent authorities. unlawful acts established as a result of Commission or national alerts; 13. inform the public of the results of its control activities through written opinions or statements to the media. (2) The President of the National Assembly shall inform the President and the Prime Minister of the Commission's decisions and opinions. (18) The Commission shall be assisted... Madam President, here I will propose a correction, a technical amendment. The project, which we have served and voted for, has pointed out the "Desect". The Directorate is supported by the Directorate within the specialized administration of the National Assembly. The previous rules were the same, but in order to comply with the Law on Administration and at the request of the administration of the National Assembly, I propose that the text be: 18. The Commission shall be assisted by a specialised unit within the specialized administration of the National Assembly. Art. 19. The President of the Commission may draw experts on civil contracts. Final provisions § 1 These Internal Rules are adopted by the Commission on the basis of art. 18, para. 1, t. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and shall enter into force after their approval by the National Assembly. § 2 The Rules on the Organization and Activities of the National Assembly shall apply to cases pending in these Internal Rules of Procedure in the work of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u30	Mr. Lazarov, let's repeat once again the decision on the Isn't that right? Okay. Thank you. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u31	Thank you, Madam President. As Vice-President of the Commission, I have participated in the discussion and vote on the Internal Rules in the Commission and will vote on their approval by the National Assembly. However, I would like to draw attention to art. 6, which reads:.... exercises parliamentary control over the security services for the legality, as well as for the appropriateness of their actions based on the existing strategic documents on the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria and the concluded international treaties..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I believe that we can also afford a correction here, given that the only strategic document in force, which concerns the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria, is the Constitution, which in art. 5, para. 1 Accurately and clearly means that the Constitution is a supreme law and other laws cannot contradict it. Assuming that strategic documents are the laws of the State Agency of National Security, of the State Agency of Intelligence, of the Office of Military Information and of the other entities of the Commission, we should be well aware that these are temporary documents that change and have no strategic importance. Therefore, I propose, if Mr. Lazarov can clarify what is meant by the strategic documents in question, besides the Constitution, who is of strategic importance to national security, that is, for the next few decades, to think, and if necessary, to write: In the context of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the concluded international treaties. This is my statement on the proposed validation of the Internal Rules. The other, Madam President, and I would like to say immediately that I have agreed with Chairman Glavachev, is that last week we have heard many things about murder, courts, head cuts. Today I was especially pleased when the colleague from GERB gave a heartfelt speech regarding May 24...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u32	The BSP co-worker...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u33	Yes, and the colleague from BSP, but I would like to say that the colleague from GERB had a heartfelt speech. Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. [[Reply of the National Representative Snezana Dukova]] I like you too, Mrs. Dukova, but I don't think this is the place to demonstrate our relationship. I'm satisfied with that because I'm a university teacher and I can't help but notice it. By what I've agreed with Mr. Glauchev. The European Parliament, the parliaments of the European countries, the world has shown empathy for the victims and relatives of the victims in connection with the wartime terrorist act in Manchester, Great Britain. Let us, Madam President, find a comfortable form and, as Parliament, show our empathy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u34	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. You're absolutely right about the Manchester tragedy. At the Chairman's Council, we will decide how to note this tragic fact. Here's your speech, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u35	Mrs. Chairman! My fellow Member, in addition to the Constitution, which is the highest law for a country, there are laws, and there are regulations. Dear colleague Velkov, but there is also a National Security Strategy. It's working. It's a strategic document. It's not a law, it's not a regulation. With some of the laws, we oblige the services to adopt documents, some of which are strategic for their implementation. So the text is very correctly thought out and done. The constitution is the general law, but the laws detail, regulate public relations with individual legal provisions. Strategies are also part of normity, but they are not regulations. They're being accepted into this room. They result in rights and obligations for both executive and other institutions. There's a National Security Strategy underway right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u36	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Here you go, Mr. Velkov. That would be Mr. Lazarov's cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u37	Thank you. Mr. Lazarov, I am well aware of what a strategic document means. As soon as I made the proposal, I had the motive for your reaction to withdraw it, but I would like to tell you that the national security strategies of the Republic of Bulgaria in the last 25 years, as well as the concepts and doctrines of national security, have been changed exactly 7 times. I mean, I wouldn't agree that they have a strategic nature. But I wanted to hear your vision. It's me. Vice-President of the Commission, but you are my chairman. I withdraw my offer. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-25.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. Any other speeches? I won't. I close the debate and move on to the vote, first of the editorial amendments. I put to the vote Mr. Lazarov's proposal, where he proposes, instead of the adoption decision, to be a decision on the validation of the internal rules for the organisation and activities of the Commission for control of the security services. Please vote. They voted 133 MPs: 128, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. The next editorial amendment is in art. 18 The proposal of Mr. Lazarov is to be supported by the Directorate within the specialized administration of the National Assembly. The proposal of Mr. Lazarov is to become the text: The specialized unit within the specialized administration of the National Assembly is supported by the specialized unit within the specialized administration of the National Assembly. I put to the vote the editorial amendment made by Mr. Lazarov. They voted 133 MPs: 128, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We're going to vote on the whole text, read it: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the validation of the Internal Rules on the Organization and Activity of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of the Special Intelligence Means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act The National Assembly on the basis of art. 18, para. 1, t. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt the internal rules on the organisation and operation of the Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. The decision was adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly on today's date 25 May 2017, and is sealed with the official seal of the National Assembly. Please, voting mode. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Yeah, that's how I read it. 135 MPs voted: 132, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, allow me, on behalf of the President and the National Assembly, to read a condolence telegram to His Excellency John Birkow, Chairman of the House of the UK Parliament. "Sofia," May 23, 2017 Your Excellency, I am deeply shocked by the Manchester terrorist act that led to many innocent human victims and dozens of wounded. On the occasion of the tragedy, please accept the expression of the deepest condolences and sympathy of the MPs of the Bulgarian Parliament. Once again, the whole world is shaken and shocked by violence against peaceful citizens. There's no excuse for this kind of action. Allow me at this difficult time to express the most sincere friendly and human empathy and solidarity. We are with you and share the pain of Britain and the grief of the families affected by it. Bulgaria strongly and decisively condemns any acts of terrorism as a gross violation of the values of the modern democratic world. I am convinced that this brutal act will unite the efforts of the institutions, civil society and the world community for an even more uncompromising fight in all acts of terrorism. I wish for a speedy recovery of the wounded in the bombing of citizens. Mr. Dimitar Glauchev, Chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. We move on to parliamentary control announcements on 26 May 2017, Friday, at 9.00 p.m. First will be the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev. He will answer one question from the MP Anton Kutev. Second Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov. He will answer four questions from the MPs: Pencho Milkov, Krum Zarkov and Georgi Stoilov, Dora Yankova, Daniela Saveklieva, Georgi Dinev, Stefan Apostolov, Alexander Matsurev and Dimitar Gamishev, and Philip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer three questions from the MPs: Dzhevdet Chakarov, Mihail Hristov, Svetla Bachvarova, Georgi Gokov and Radoslav Stoychev. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer a question from the National Representative Manol Genov. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer two questions from the MPs Pencho Milkov and Georgi Stoilov and Dzhevdet Chakarov. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer two questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Philip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MP Vasil Antonov. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will answer a question from the MP Vasil Antonov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Petar Hristov Petrov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on two questions from the MPs Vasil Antonov, Valentina Alexandrova and Milko Nedyalkov, and a question from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Ivan Genov; - Culture Minister Boel Banov to a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev and two questions with written answer from the MPs - Ahmed Ahmedov and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on four questions from the MPs Kristian Vigenin, Nikolay Penev, Valentina Naydenova, Georgi Yordanov, Anelia Klisarova and Ilian Timchev, and Nina Mitkova - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov at one request from the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev and Manol Genov. Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answers to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov to the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov are postponed. In the absence of the country in the meeting of parliamentary control, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov and Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform, Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will not participate. My fellow Members, due to the exhaustion of the agenda for today, I am closing the meeting. Tomorrow, Parliamentary Control, Friday, 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
