ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, once again we have witnessed a terrorist act this time in New York, where the lives of innocent citizens were taken. Let us again categorically condemn all forms of violence as a gross assault against democracy and modern civilization. We declare our will to join forces in the fight against terrorism because there is no and there is no justification for such violence against innocent people. Dear colleagues, I will present to you the National Assembly Work Programme from 1 to 3 November 2017. Since we are the first Wednesday of the month, we enter into the hypothesis of proposals of the parliamentary groups according to the order of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for inclusion on the agenda of non-voting items. First in a row is the political party GERB parliamentary group. It proposes: Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 29 September 2017. Adopted in the first vote on 13 October 2017. The proposal from the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria Importers Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs, 19 July 2017. This is a proposal for point two. For point three, a proposal from the parliamentary group "United Patriarchs": First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Civil Registration. Importers "Iskren Veselinov" and a group of MPs, 26 July 2017 I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Point four supposed by the parliamentary group "Movement for Rights and Freedoms": First vote on the Draft Law for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Civil Registration. Importers "Mustafa Karadayi" and a group of MPs, 6 July 2017 I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. There is no proposal from the political party's parliamentary group. In the part to be voted on: 5. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Civil Registration. Importers - Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, 6 July 2017; Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, 26 July 2017 I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. This is in case we do not look at them in the order of art. 53, para. 8. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act. The Council of Ministers, September 29th, 2017 was adopted in the first vote on October 13, 2017. This point will most likely be considered as the first and we will run out of it. 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 19 October 2017 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 2 October 2017. Adopted at first vote on 19 October 2017. 9. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 28 September 2017. Adopted in first vote on 12 October 2017. 10. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Supervision Commission Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 24 October 2017. We propose this to be the first item for Thursday, 2 November 2017. 11. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 18 July 2017. Adopted in the first vote on 14 September 2017. We propose this to be point two for Thursday, 2 November 2017. 12. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 9 August 2017. Adopted in the first vote on 27 September 2017. 13. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health and Safety at Work. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 16 October 2017 14. Report on the implementation of the privatization and post-privatization control process during the period 1 January This Decision shall 15. Draft Law on the ratification of the Technical Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Supreme High Command of the United Forces of NATO in Europe (SHAPE) on the provision of support by the Host Party to activities of allied forces in the context of the Joint Forces with a very high degree of readiness (VJTF). Importer of the Council of Ministers, 16 October 2017. We propose this to be the first point for Friday, 3 November 2017. On the basis of art. 50, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly the meeting in this part is closed as the Agreement has a level of classification for official use under the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. 16. Draft Decision on the adoption of the Annual Activity Report of the State Intelligence Agency (IAA) 2016 (confidential). Importer suppose the Council of Ministers, April 20 2017. We propose that this be point two for Friday, 3 November 2017. On the basis of art. 50, para. 1, t. 2 of our Rules of Procedure the meeting in this part is closed, as the report has a level of classification of................................................................................................................................................................. 17. Draft Decision on the adoption of the Annual Report on the Activity of the Service (secretly). Importer of the Council of Ministers, 24 April 2017. We propose this to be a third item for Friday, 3 November 2017. On the basis of art. 50, para. 1, t. 2 of our Rules of Procedure are closed in this part, as the report is classified under the Classified Information Protection Act. 18. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the Programme Project in the part to be voted on. Vote 198 MPs: 120 against 1, abstention 77. Our work program has been accepted. On the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose as a point in the National Assembly Programme for the period from 1 to 3 November 2017 including the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Youth Act, No 754-01-36 of 5 July 2017, with importers Vesela Lecheva and a group of MPs. The proposal is from the Vice-President of the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to present to your attention once again our desire to include a item on the agenda for consideration of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Youth Act. Just a few weeks ago, the people's representation voted on the agenda to enter the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Youth Act, but I dare say that through procedural catch-ups, through fictional pauses and breaks then there was no time for it to be considered, to be debated. There is a doubt that the government does not want this Bill, that this Bill is undesirable, and it is because it involves public control from youth organizations to the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Public control is also included through the national representation of youth organizations, which is within the Bill. That is why I believe that, in order for there to be no doubt, you, Mr President, must make sure that our bill is reviewed this week. I hope that the government will dispel these doubts by voting on this desire to debate the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Youth Act. I hope you will support our wish, as you did a few weeks ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. Vote, honourable Members, in order to dispel any doubts. I don't have a chance to influence. They voted 198 MPs: 98, against 21, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period 25 to 31 October 2017: On 25 October 2017, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition entered into force. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On the same date, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors was adopted. The representatives of the National Assembly Margarita Nikolova, Daniela Saveklieva, Alexander Sabanov, Eugenia Angelova and Plamen Tachev. The Committee on Health is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Once again on 25 October 2017, a Draft Law for ratification of the Constitutional Agreement and Statute of the Organisation for European Public Law was adopted. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. The other committees that will consider it are the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 26 October 2017, a Law amending the Law on People's Chitalishtes was adopted. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. Again, on the same date, a bill was introduced to amend the Social Security Code. Importers Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. On the same date there was a Bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Bankruptcy with the People's Representatives Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid. It is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs as well as to the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 30 October 2017, a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, in general to all Standing Committees in the National Assembly. On 30 October 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as to the Committee on the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government and the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. On the same date, a draft budget for the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018 was adopted. It was allocated to the leading Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as to the Committee on Health. On 30 October 2017, a Draft Law on the State Social Security Budget for 2018. The importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. On 31 October 2017, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Defence, as well as to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its own orders, authorised, due to an amendment of the Plan for the Joint Preparation of the Permanent Armed Forces Group of NATO No 2, which includes a basic mine-cleaner with his statutory arms and crew of servicemen, the ship to sail in the territorial waters of the Greek Republic from 18 to 23 November 2017. He has also authorised participation in rotational training and training at a training centre of the US forces Hohenfells (Germany), for the period 30 October 2017 to 23 November 2017 and the dispatch of military personnel from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with weapons, equipment, equipment and imitation ammunition. He has also authorised participation in the training in the "AL 17" in the Hellenic Republic from 31 October to 10 November 2017 and the sending of soldiers from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The provisions of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria are notified to the competent state authorities. The notifications were received on 26, 27 and 30 October 2017 with input numbers 703-09-43, 703-09-44 and 703-09-45 and provided to the Defence Committee. The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 September 2017. "24 October 2017, and Protocol No 44 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute on the general index of producer prices in industry and producer price index on the domestic and international market for September 2017, as well as on the business climate in industry, construction, retail and services in October 2017. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. National Representative Milena Damyanova has the floor for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. After that, the people representative Ivo Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the first November we celebrate the deeds of the thousands of Bulgarians who to this day guard our national self-consciousness and flame of the Bulgarian spirit. Today we celebrate the works of our educators, scribes and revolutionaries and light torches for knowledge, education and our national identity. Once a year, we remind ourselves as a people that enlightenment is the basis for having us over the centuries. Dear colleagues, the flame of the torches makes us remember, but the weekbook obliges us to work on having something to remember and to teach generations what a family is, a homeland, a nation, Bulgarians, to take care of knowledge to protect us as a nation, as they have done and make our Buddhists from the Renaissance to this day. GERB declared education a priority in its management program. Every day we work for policies that guarantee the economic stability of the state and the personal realization of each person. The budget for next year provides over half a billion leva in more for education and science. These are funds for specific activities that we put into the Preschool and School Education Act, the Higher Education Act, for which we have a political commitment and the consent of the public that they are important to every child, to every student, to every kindergarten, to every school, to every university. It's not about any wishes for the future or vague changes. We are talking about concrete steps such as: - each child to attend a kindergarten or school to receive literacy; - each kindergarten and school have sufficient financial resources to invite and retain the best teachers, whether in the center of a large city or in a remote settlement; - each teacher has the means and social stability to work professionally and build his own career. I am opening a clamp to remind you that the state will cover the transport costs of all traveling teachers so that children can study where their homes are; - each student to receive both financial and educational incentives to develop his personal talent. I will just point out that one of these incentives is scholarships that will receive all eighth graders, which is achieved by adopting the Preschool and School Education Act; - Sixteen times more are the means to develop vocational education and this is an eloquent sign of our understanding of how important it is to our economy; - each university will receive more funds only for those professional directions where the quality is leading, in which science is defining, and the specialists it creates are of high added value; - every young teacher or scientist will have additional support to develop professionally and choose education and science for their development; - for science in the 2018 budget, nearly 121 million more have been estimated compared to 2017. With the increase in science expenditure, priority is provided to increase the transfer of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Agricultural Academy by 5.9 million, to increase the efficiency of investment in science through funding of scientific organizations, depending on the results achieved and increase the share of programme-competitive funding of scientific and research activities; - the efforts continue to be aimed at supporting young scientists and the development of national scientific programmes with the primary aim of financing research in priority and competitive areas. Is that enough? No, it's not enough, but it's steps that bring change. Do we all believe that we will succeed? No, but those who are convinced that the path is right are more. In GERB's parliamentary group we have not thought for a second and have not once said that change is easy and will happen immediately. However, we do not accept the opposition's qualifications that nothing is being done, that change is not working, that mechanisms are not working, that schools are chaos, that teachers are abandoned, that families are isolated, that there is only bureaucracy and tension. We understand our colleagues at the BSP. For so many years it is GERB that makes the first reforms in the field of pre-school and school and higher education [[noise and lines from SG to BSP for Bulgaria.]] But we will remind them that only in the Law on pre-school and school education there are over 80 proposals of them, along with all the proposals of trade unions, NGOs, teachers and employers, and the Law on higher education we adopted unanimously. Yes, BSP colleagues are right: we are ready for more changes because we heard the teachers who told us they had a problem with delegated budgets; we heard them when they said they were overwhelmed by paperwork; we hear them when they say they need support, stability and more respect for their work. We also hear parents who want a guarantee that the state will not only create conditions for the system to work, but will also control it, and as governors we will change everything that creates obstacles to the great goal of having educated and successful children. The hysterical tales of the apocalypse will be allowed to sink within the political talks, but we will not accept an offer to turn a whole system into a hostage of party failures in the field of education. The education system doesn't need to argue! There is a need for guarantees that we will celebrate the Day of the People's Buddhists, that we will light the flame of knowledge every first November on the people's marches, and every day we will keep it careful, that it will not be extinguished in any classroom, in any child, in any of us! This is our goal from GERB! And as a worthy Bulgarian teacher would have graduated, whom I have the honour to know, and whom I will not for the first time quote in this House: "So, honourable colleagues studying and already studied youth! Let us remember on that day and with all our heart to thank the known and unknown artists of the Bulgarian awakened spirit. Trusted in their faith and deeds, let us gaze into the future and see there the happiness and greatness of our small but dignified tribe! Long live enlightened Bulgaria! Happy Day of the People's Watchtower! [[Extreme applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria "The People's Representative Ivo Hristov" has the floor. Here you are, Professor Hristov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! November 1st is the Day of the People's Buddhists. This time I celebrated in Plovdiv the city of chrysanthemums, and I pass through the garden "Tsar Simeon" so beautiful in its autumn colors, and I stop at its main entrance. On this side and on the other side, on both sides of the street, stands the citizenship between these two shores. And between these two shores of men flows the flow of the future, passing one after another the slender ranks of a manifesting youth with faces brightened by excitement and sun, flags and songs. Pretty boys and two prettier girls wear portraits of the people's Buddhists wrapped with wreaths and chrysanthemums. And when some of the ranks slow down, the ranks march with a great excitement. The sky above us is so blue, I feel brighter and lighter. Those aren't my words. This was written by the great Bulgarian literary critic and writer Konstantin Galabov and the year is 1934. These are 15 years after the end of World War I, which turned out to be devastating for Bulgaria; 15 years after the Versailles Treaty, according to which Bulgaria is deprived of its emerging territories, there are nearly one million refugees from Thrace, Macedonia and Dobrudja. Of the 850-thousand-strong army in operation with the largest mobilization resource of all warring countries as a percentage of the population, each third is either wounded or hostage and captive. The New York Treaty sets a cross to the ideas of Bulgaria to be a leading force in the Balkans, the Prussians of the Balkans, as they have said. Only fifteen years later in one of the most famous Bulgarian literary almanacs Konstantin Galabov published this. What was the hope of the Bulgarians then? The hope of the Bulgarians back then was not economic, it was not political, surrounded by bandits allies, as was sung in a song. Their hope was exactly in the Buddhists, as it was a hundred years ago. The Bulgarians relied primarily on being a people with an idea, with a spirit and a project for their own life together in the coming years. Now let's go back, rather make a time jump and land in 2017. In 2017 Bulgaria was abandoned by more than two and a half million of its own citizens as a result of the 30-year close transition. Of these 31.9%, nearly 32%, are people with higher education. According to the calculations of one of the best Bulgarian mathematicians these people every year produce income in the countries where they are located, for nearly 100 billion. The dollar. This means that the country has been deprived, roughly speaking, of another national budget. According to the studies of the PISA test, of the United Nations Economic Cooperation Organisation, conducted among children between IX and X grade, i.e., the children who will complete and assume either to the student bench or in life, 30% of these children are functionally illiterate in the three courses of mathematics, natural sciences, Bulgarian language and literature; 41.5% are functionally illiterate in the field of literature, to put it simply, read the text but do not understand. I think it's a slightly higher percentage by looking at.42 percent are functionally illiterate in mathematics................................................................................................................................................................. The children from the lower social groups show good results in mathematics, natural sciences or literature. This for your information means blocked lifts for social movement from the lower to the lower levels of the system and severe social disintegration. For your information in Vietnam, this percentage is seventy, first in the world. In Bulgaria in 2016 45% of the first-graders do not have the Bulgarian language. Between 130 thousand and 200,000, I purposely put these figures because there are no accurate statistics, they leave school, the so-called early dropout. 38% of Bulgarians don't graduate from higher education at all. At the same time, there is one in the country today, if memory serves, between 52 and 53 higher schools. These higher schools have announced a reception this year, if I'm not mistaken, for about 70,000. students, given that graduates are somewhere around the figure 58-60 thousand. So there's a deficit of nearly 10 or more thousand people. This means, in short, that every self-respecting high school rector must issue a very important order at night to lock up the university because he will enter a dog and graduate. At the same time, a large part of these graduates who enter the relevant universities receive diplomas with an invoice, i.e. functional illiterateness becomes structural illiteracy. These people, these illiterate generations are already entering active social turnover and, as the big Russian director Sergei Mihalkov said, "Today's children, but tomorrow's people. Bulgaria is one of the countries with the highest indicators of education, by IQ, on the spread of science and education as a special value of our people, is currently ranked after 50-60th place on all international rankings. Not in 1917 but in 2017. In the meantime, we're getting background reports on how far we've progressed. Yes, we are advanced, but I remember that it seems that the main driving contradiction of the Bulgarian transition is that the further you go, the more this way you come. Killing dialectics! This means, the other day, rather yesterday, I received some information that even the money we receive from the European Union under the various programmes, including the Operational Programme for Education and Smart Growth, due to corruption, incompetence and frank abuse, has been stopped by the European Union. That is what the Minister of Education said in person. For this reason we are faced with the following trend: not pouring money, colleagues, in Bulgaria goes the most frightening trend, which in fact very little is spoken of by the Bulgarian people of the Prussians in the Balkans to become the prodigals of the Balkans with all the resulting consequences. Finally, in two words, yesterday was Halloween. Yesterday was Halloween I was looking at some kids who were moving down the street happy, dressed in their masquerade uniforms. I do not know if you know that Halloween is a celebration of the dead, not to turn the Day of the People's Buddhists into a celebration of the end of Bulgarian education!? What's the biggest problem? The problem is not economic, social or political. The problem is, above all, cultural. It is that we as a nation are facing the abyss of non-return. Educated nations learn from problems. Uneducated nations enter the cemetery of history. Thank you. [[(Voices: Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u7	Thank you, Professor Hristov, and yet you could say hello to Buddhist Day. Another affidavit? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u8	Honourable President, Members of the National Assembly! Every time it comes to November 1 or May 24, I think how unique our country is! There is no other country in the world that honors with special dates its culture, writing, its minds and spiritual leaders, its Buddhists, a fact that we should all be proud of. It would not be far-fetched if I said that Bulgaria's past, the great names of our history, dedicated to its freedom and prosperity, are an integral part of the mentality and growth of every Bulgarian citizen, generation after generation. And that's how it should be! For a nation that does not honor or remember its past cannot build its good future. On the day we remember our Buddhists, some ask the question: is there a modern manifestation of this, or does Buddhism remain there somewhere, in the distant history, when our ancestors fought for freedom and for the cultural identity of our people? I am convinced that every time creates conditions to have and to call ourselves the Buddhists! Each of us today can be one, and this is not a great hero. Whether someone will organize the neighbor and together clean the garden in front of the bloc, whether a teacher will prepare his students for a world Olympics, whether employees in a company will give an innovative proposal - the examples are many and there is a spirit of Buddhism in all of them. We must keep this spirit alive because it can not only help our country's prosperity but also bring us satisfaction as humans. One of the Buddhists from the end of the 19th century, the revolutionary Gotse Delchev, says the prophetic words: "I understand the world only as a field of cultural competition among the peoples. " More than 100 years later we all know that Bulgarian culture and spirituality are factors that are only able to put us forward compared to other countries and nations. How are spiritual and cultural values guarded when everyday life and everyday life put us to the test? And in that, we, as a people, are unique. Because despite the difficulties during the so-called pass, despite the attempts, where should the Bulgarian be disillusioned and subordinate, there have always been and there will be people in our country who will stand up and protect not only the people, but also its permanent values. In this, I see the meaning of today's celebration to know who we are, to know what we want to achieve as a people and together with the will to do so. Because we really do carry the unwavering spirit of the old Buddhists. Happy Thanksgiving!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stefanova. Mr Errol Mehmed, come in on behalf of a DPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u10	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, distinguished educators and scientists! We are on the Day of the People's Buddhists, a common Bulgarian holiday and a bright day, thoughtful and conscious of generations as a day of honor to the memory of our ancestors In the history of Bulgaria the word has a crucial role. Light and strong personalities with words and deeds raise the national self-consciousness and turn Bulgaria into a state of spirit. November 1st is a memorable day of the calendar, an integral part of our spiritual nature and our conscience. Today we honor the memory of those heroes and saints, through which the word is alive and everyone knows their kindred and native language. It is a day when you can safely turn back in time, seek the power of faith, and through it make your way to the future, seek your roots, feel the wisdom of the ancestors, and in their steps to move forward, reflecting on life. Dear colleagues, Bulgaria has covered in its cradle the story not only of one ethnicity. Life requires that we be tolerant, smart, responsible because it is our common destiny, our common history, our common land and our homeland. We are doomed to live together and this peaceful cohabitation is a fundamental value and political philosophy of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Levski will always be the conscience of the new statesmen who dared to challenge with hateful words and deeds the equality of Bulgarians, Turks, Jews living in the pure and holy republic. Before action and manifestation as a historic event, the revolution takes place first in consciousness. It's all over the place. In all aspects of life, it concerns the fate of the individual, but also the fate of the entire people. But the word, the mother tongue, is the foundation of everything. Paisius will wake us up forever and will keep us awake with the frightening question: "Because you are ashamed to call yourself a Bulgarian and do not read or speak in your own language? " When I first saw in other countries that children began to read books written in their language, I recognized how badly teachers were worth to us and how much pain the poor children were drawing. This is why Sophronius Vrachanski worked:... day and night to write several books in our Bulgarian language. So if it is not possible for me to tell them with my mouth, they will hear from me, the sinful one, some useful teaching. In view of the depth of the words of the great renaissances, an analogy can be made with the study of the mother tongues in modern Bulgaria, which in the name of democracy should provide state support. But the picture can't be complete without a quote from Botev: Yes! We are the Patriots, we are drunk, we are the people, the slave still has something to feed us! At this festival, patriots read words and speeches, tell about the merits and deeds of holy men, chew and tangle historical and modern truths. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all descendants of an irreconcilable generation of injustices in life that has become an example of spiritual power. We ourselves realize that broken through the prism of time, Bulgarian Buddhists are actually relevant in our time. Patrioticity and true patriotism are a guiding light for all nations because they suggest and express love, not hatred for the other, the different, even more so when the other is actually your countryman. A true statesman does not hate part of his people, and hatred cannot be a state policy. Today is a holiday, and a holiday has a major function to unite the nation. The human attitude towards family and homeland is unifying patriotism, what it really represents, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, as a philosophy of life and a political strategy. We will remain awake in time and as such we wish more wisdom to politicians, the power of the spirit of modern enlighteners and more faith in the own powers of all the troubled and tortured people! Today Bulgaria is proud of its sons! Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Mehmed. Any other affidavits? Mr. Siderov, come on in on behalf of the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, if I must be politically correct, I must tell you today: Happy Halloween, dear awakeners! Because Halloween is more familiar than the celebration of the Buddhists. It is about the Bulgarian children. Halloween is a pagan holiday where a lot of demon images are used, but it is currently advertised by all media. He has become a business and the children know that this is some kind of entertainment and today they have to celebrate this holiday. If you ask them, today's Bulgarian children, what are the Buddhists, they will find it difficult, and for good reason, because today I heard here, many times the word "spirit" and "Bulgarian spirit" has been repeated. Only kids don't know what a ghost is because they don't study faith. They don't know what a spirit is or a soul. They continue to learn the stupidity that humans have descended from the monkeys that like to have descended from the monkey, let them think so. In school, we think patriots should learn faith. Until now, the pronouncing representatives of various parties who have ruled over the years have refused the proposal that I, my colleagues have made over the years to learn faith or God's Law, so that the child from a short time can understand what a spirit is, a soul, why it exists, why it should believe in God, and that the world is created by the Creator of everything visible and invisible. Without this, we will continue to ask ourselves: why is there aggression, why do such horrific things happen at school, why are adolescents like this, and such? Yes, they are, because no one teaches them that they must, first, believe that faith is salvation. From then on all other stories about the Bulgarian spirit, the Bulgarian awakening, are yes, elaines words suitable for celebration, but they also overlay hypocrisy. If I have to dispel hypocrisy now, I have to tell you that the Bulgarian Buddhists have been slaughtered by one or another part of the government during the different periods of our new history. During the Ottoman presence, as it says in today's textbooks, Bulgarians found a way to enlighten themselves. And when foreigners came here, they admired and said: this people under Ottoman yoke, let's say, or slavery the real word, finds a way to learn, despite all the tolerance then, which the speaker spoke about here just a moment ago, the whole tolerance of the Ottoman presence. I do not know if you know, in the territory of Bulgaria it was forbidden to have printers during the tolerant Ottoman presence. It is forbidden to have churches higher than a horseman. In general, it is forbidden for the Bulgarian people to have access to education. However, he has made possible, printed books in Belgrade, Bucharest, Vienna, where he can and has been enlightened again. So I am optimistic, unlike my esteemed Professor Hristov, who drew an apocalyptic picture. Yes, such scars, such strokes there are in our reality, but I am optimistic that the Bulgarian will not become a lumpinized tribe, as they try to turn it into the years of so-called democracy. No, that's not gonna happen, because there's something at stake, and it's gonna stay there forever! Another I wanted to say: this holiday, which we celebrate today, is officially recognized as a holiday in 1923. The dramatic 1923 in which they were killed, let's say, Buddhists such as Geo Milev, Joseph Herbs, Georgi Sheitanov. I know that in some part of this room, someone can stand up and say, what kind of wake-up callers they are, they're communists, they're not acceptable! In just two years' time, those who were slaughtered and their leadership of the party carried out the biggest terrorist act in Europe's new history, the attack in the St. Nedelya, 213 people killed on the ground. Among them were Buddhists, intellectuals, generals, lecturers. That is, the Bulgarian society begins a bloody civil war in the year when the Day of Buddhists is announced, after which we know what is happening: one kills the others revenge, the other comes to power. I will believe that really here those who speak from all parties speak sincerely, then, when, first of all, for example: the Movement for Rights and Freedoms (JV) recognizes that there was a Turkish slavery in Bulgaria, not an Ottoman presence, when BSP as a socialist party said and admitted that the attack in 1925 was a barbaric case and it could not be part of a hundred or a hundred and ten years of history. This part is only enough to compromise all the other decades of our history. Also this part of the right, which always points to the communists and points out how bad they are, she admits that Nikola Vaptsarov is a genius poet and a Buddhist, not a communist terrorist, that Geo Milev is a genius poet and so on all those left-wing intellectuals who were killed by the then-right part of the governing society. Then we will assume that Bulgaria is normalizing. Then we'll assume that Buddhism is a common holiday for everyone, not Halloween with the cut-out pumpkins. That's our job! Specifically, as a presence in power, we patriots believe that we play such a role, if not Buddhist, then at least an stimulating role. What can change as long as we have the power? I address my colleagues from GERB the textbooks, those textbooks that I mentioned. Children in the third, fourth grade continue to learn that Levski was a criminal pursued by the Turkish police. They continue to learn that nothing significant happened to Bulgaria during the time of King Simeon the Great. That is what has to be changed in the textbooks today! In the textbooks of Bulgarian students should finally enter the true history of Bulgarians, as it is, proven by DNA experts. We are not a nomadic tribe that came here in the 7th century on horsebacks, with jerky under the saddle, but we are a civilized people who have been here for thousands of years, and that is why there is already enough historical and scientific evidence. That's what needs to be in the books! Of course, as I said in the beginning, faith or the law of God. Then I am convinced that the Bulgarian students will grow up with another self-esteem, they will not have the crushed self-esteem. But we Bulgarians are what we are, to want to immediately go to another country or to be realized there, in fact we will become donors of richer countries than us. Then they will know that they are descendants of a great civilization, that so far in our history textbooks there have been great distortions, I will say, fatal distortions, that we are a small horde that has come here and flown into the Slavic Sea. All of this needs to be reconsidered and the real story entered. If, during our term of office, we can do this, help the authors to bring out the true Bulgarian history, I will personally be satisfied that we have done what is necessary as Bulgarian national Buddhists. Then we can say: yes, all the questions we cannot solve, yes, all the problems we cannot solve, you can't feed all the cats This is our task, I turn to my colleagues, it is a major task, because I know that in the parliamentary work you are sometimes quite disinterested in dealing with all sorts of questions. Our task is precisely this: to start textbooks in which to teach true history, true civilization. Restore, show, prove and educate Bulgarian children with the greatness of our Buddhists, show the great role, we mention them as national heroes, a Rakovski, how familiar is Rakovski as a true explorer of Bulgarian origin and language? Zero, none at all. It doesn't study in textbooks. They know him as some kind of warlord who waved a flag. Yes, and that's what he did, but it's actually the first researcher to prove the autochtonic origins of the Bulgarians that we have lived here for millennia. I ask: why can't this be learned? I don't know. Let those who write textbooks respond. If they can't answer, they can give way to those who will write the real, the good, the right textbooks. That's what I wanted to tell you on Buddhist Day, dear colleagues. I wish you mental health, peace of mind and in Bulgarian schools to talk about spirit and soul, not just matter, not just that we came from the coacervat drop or from a chimpanzee or from a monkey. It's about time this was taken away from the truth. And the truth is faith in God, the truth is learning God's Law. Without doing so, decades will pass and we will wonder why bad youths grow up, why do they do bad things? Because they don't have support. Thank you, I wish the Bulgarian Parliament all the best! Let's make the right decisions! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC FINLANDS. A report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act No 702-01-20 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017 and adopted on the first vote on 13 October 2017. The report belongs to the Committee on Budget and Finance and will be presented to you by the Parliamentary Representative Menda Stoyanova, President of the Commission. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, will be invited to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u15	Let us vote on this proposal, honourable Members. Vote 131 MPs: 125 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Invite Deputy Minister Ananiev to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u16	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 by importer. The Commission supports the text of the importer in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u17	We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law, as well as paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 on the Commission report. Please vote. Voted 118 MPs: 116, no objection, abstention 2. The name of the Law and paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "Governance" the amount management of the single account and other assets of the fiscal reserve shall be added. 2. In para. The 2th sentence is amended as follows: The costs are carried out on the basis of this law, the State Budget Act for the respective year or act of the Council of Ministers. 3. The creation of para. 4. The central budget shall consolidate as aggregate amounts the proceeds, payments and funds under art. 154, without prejudice to balances and limits for payments in individual accounts and deposits of the respective budgetary organisations and persons under art. 156 and while maintaining their direct participation in the payment process and the respective rights and obligations of its participants.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u19	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 4 on the Commission report. They voted 124 MPs: 121, against 1, abstention 2. Paragraph 4 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u20	According to § 5, there is a proposal of the MPs Georgi Turnovalyski and Dora Yankova. The Commission does not support the proposal. In § 5, art. 51, para. 2 is amended as follows: The amount of budgetary relations under para. 1 may be changed by the order of this law on the basis of another law or act of the Council of Ministers, if this is provided for by law. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u21	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The order of Art. 51 of the Public Finance Act changed it a year and a half ago, after a serious debate in the Chamber of the Forty-third National Assembly. We then warned that the proposals and with what was adopted in this House are unconstitutional. We were not able to submit a constitutional complaint then, because there was no one to support us, but fortunately in 2017, the majority of the Bulgarian Socialist Party in the National Assembly is enough to introduce and submit such a complaint, and this is a fact in the Constitutional Court on this text. Today the government makes new changes and proposals in the texts of art. 51 of the Public Finance Act with vague motives, it is not clear why. I suppose this is because of the constitutional complaint which has been lodged but also with one omission, and I believe that this text must also have a subsequent impact assessment by law. How has this change been affected for a year and a half, and what are the results of the 41rd National Assembly's amendments to legislation in such an important law, the Public Finance Act, and specifically in the relations between the central budget and the municipal budget? In our constitutional appeal, we have long been here in this Chamber, debating why we do not agree with these changes. Therefore, today we offer the text of art. 51, para. 2 be the same as the text which was until 2016, which allows changes in budgetary relations to be based only on the State Budget Act or where this is provided for by law. Today we are offered a text that hides this attempt to change the state budget behind the National Assembly. In 2016, the government, based on this text, distributed 160 million by a decree of the municipalities and changed these budgetary relations. In 2017, these funds distributed according to unclear criteria and principles are already 140 million. This is unconstitutional because budgetary relations have constitutional status and the regulations that can change them are only laws. That is why we will not support the proposed text. We are proposing our own text, which we know will not be accepted, but we will continue to attack the making of a budget and its change behind the National Assembly's back in the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u24	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'd like to say a few words because the matter is really a little specialized and specific. From the speech of the President, perhaps a large part of you have the impression that we are giving the Council of Ministers the right, by its own decrees, to decide the Law, which has been voted by the National Assembly, that is, to redistribute surpluses, additional revenues, to whomever the municipalities wish in this case. I want to assure you that this is not the case, and I will give you the following simple examples. First of all, every lev re-execution of revenue, of tax revenue in the budget cannot be spent on additional costs. Only the overexecution of revenues to the budget goes to reduce the deficit in the relevant year. If there is no deficit in the year concerned and a surplus is formed as a result of the overexecution of the revenues, an explicit text of the Law says that this surplus can be reassigned for additional costs only by a decision of the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. So clearly and categorically all of you must understand that no lev of the additional revenue goes for additional costs. What the Council of Ministers can do under the Law, it is a restructuring of costs between individual items and final beneficiaries of these costs, within the framework of the common costs established by the National Assembly. Not a single lev cost more the Council of Ministers does not redistribute. The only thing the Council of Ministers does is: where there is a failure of spending by the end of the year for all kinds of reasons to redirect these costs to those areas that lack to achieve certain objectives, on the one hand. On the other hand, very often in the state delegated activities and other activities, you all know that they are based on natural indicators, there is a change in the year of these natural indicators. And it's normal! This must be possible for the Council of Ministers to make it possible to make a redistribution of this expenditure on the basis of the modification of the relevant natural indicators. Very often the relevant ministries, say the Ministry of Education, which perform functions at different costs of education at the expense of municipalities, should also be shaped into one such redistribution. You can't imagine how every such movement of funds that I'm talking about will have to go through a National Assembly debate? And this is not a violation of the State Budget Act, because for the last time I repeat: not one lev more than planned total budget expenditures The Council of Ministers can't redistribute. No lev from the overexecution of the revenues The Council of Ministers can allocate for expenses! I think that the proposal, which is made by BSP left Bulgaria, aims to strengthen the implementation, implementation of budgetary policies. It aims to clog, so to speak, the operational decisions taken by the Council of Ministers by law and which the Council of Ministers must take in order to have operational implementation of the activities, and to naturally clog the National Assembly every day to deal with the approval of such costs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, you're trying to give an example, but I'm sure the House didn't get any clearer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u27	Don't underestimate the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u28	I don't underestimate this room. It is clear that in the year by a decree of the Council of Ministers funds are being redistributed, and I agree that what you have explained concerns the chief officers, the relations between the central budget and the budgets of the ministries, but here we are talking about relations between the central budget and the budget of the municipalities and the autonomy of the municipalities, with which you do not comply, and there are redeployments and distributions. I quoted earlier the amounts made over the years by vague criteria and rules. These were operational decisions of the Council of Ministers. Yes, Mrs. Stoyanova, operational decisions on management and implementation of the state budget of the Council of Ministers, but the Council of Ministers has the right and can manage! He's not the owner of the public resource. This is why the budget is looked at in this Chamber and is accepted in this Chamber. It cannot be changed because the Council of Ministers had such an operational solution and I cannot accept in any case that what we are proposing is clogging up the work or, as you have said, the members of the Council of Ministers. After all, for several years you worked both with these texts and the work of the Council of Ministers was just as good and was not clogged. I can give you an example of what you really did to make it clear to everyone in the Chamber: when we in 2015, with the 2016 budget, proposed for the monument of Hristo Botev in Kalofer to be given 300 thousand. BGN, the gym rejected it. In January, a decree of the Council of Ministers gave this money to the municipality of Karlovo to repair the monument. This is a visual case of what you achieve and what you want to do! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u30	Mr. Turnover, don't underestimate the hall. Just because I don't underestimate her, I just want to finish the text we're arguing about. Dear colleagues, what is really more than what Mr Turnovalyski proposes in the text? More is that the amount of budgetary relations under para. 1 may be changed in accordance with Section II of Chapter 8 by the relevant authority, where it derives from a law, from the restructuring of the activities delegated by the State or changes in the natural or value indicators for the financing of the activity concerned under the budgets of the municipalities. This is the change, fellow Members, and everything else is interpretations.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u31	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any other statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Georgi Turnovaliski and Dora Yankova, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. The vote is 136 MPs: 54, against 40, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5 supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 157 MPs: 93 against 55, abstention 9. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u32	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u33	We are voting on paragraphs 6 and 7 on the Commission report. Vote 158 MPs: for 102, against 4, abstention 52. Paragraphs 6 and 7 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u34	Paragraph 8. Proposal of the MPs Georgi Tarnovalyski and Dora Yankova " § 8 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u35	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u36	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The newly created art. It has the same meaning as the one debated just now. I'm not gonna repeat everything I just said. I just want to go back to what Mrs. Stoyanova tried to clarify, because I couldn't answer her back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u37	A violation of the Staff Regulations makes a replica of my backdrop.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u38	Mr. Turnover!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u39	She read us that in art. Article 51, and the same is in Article 51. 55a "where it is said that the budget between municipalities and the central budget can be changed in accordance with Section II, Chapter 8 of the relevant authority. Now, fellow Members, I will read to you what Chapter Eight says: a budget implementation. Section two. Implementation of the state budget, the budget of the State Social Security and the National Health Insurance Fund and other budgets, except the budgets of the municipalities. Here we exclude budgets for municipalities, and in the text we are talking exclusively about the central budget of the municipalities. In the quoted art. 111, which has also been read and to which it is actually forwarding this text, we will debate a little later and see that it has also changed. And where it is said that the Minister of Finance has the right to change these relationships when there are changes by law or by an act of the Council of Ministers in relation to the natural and valuable indicators in the activities delegated by the State, this is dropped out and it is said: "This is changing. The budgetary relations between the municipalities and the central budget are changed by a decision of the Council of Ministers.The Minister of Finance has the right to implement, which means that we are giving indulgences to the Minister in order to be calm that he does not violate the Constitution and does not violate the law. There is no way for this new text to be adopted and it will probably also be part of our subsequent constitutional complaint. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. Are there any lines? I won't. Statements? I won't either. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Georgi Turnovaliski and Dora Yankova, which is not supported by the Commission. The vote is 153 MPs: 71, against 48, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 8 supported by the Commission. Vote 152 MPs: 90, against 54, abstention 8. Paragraph 8 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u41	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u42	We are voting on paragraphs 9 and 10 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 155 MPs: 98 against 1, abstention 56. Paragraphs 9 and 10 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u43	Paragraph 11. Proposal of the MPs Georgi Tarnovalyski and Dora Yankova " § 11 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u44	You're welcome to speak, Mr. Turnovallisky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u45	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! We are proposing to reject this paragraph because we support the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities that the proposed norm restricts the right of the National Association of Municipalities to make proposals, and is limited here only to the budget relations. This is contrary to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. The National Association of Municipalities cannot be limited to making proposals only in terms of basic budgetary relations. We therefore propose that this paragraph be rejected and remains the text in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovallisky. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u47	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you. Perhaps just two weeks ago in Albena, you signed an Agreement with the Association of Bulgarian Municipalities. In this Agreement with the Association of Bulgarian Municipalities you supported the spirit of dialogue between the Association of Municipalities, the Bulgarian Parliament and the initiative of the Association of Municipalities. Now for the first time with the Public Finance Act instead of giving this opportunity, in art. 77, para. 1 is written that the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria can make a proposal in the total amount of the relationships of municipal budgets with the central budget. I do not understand why, given that the municipalities are dominated by representatives of GERB and by the management of the National Association, we are going into restrictive parameters. I appeal to all Members of the National Assembly to enable one of the largest associations of the Bulgarian municipalities to have the opportunity to debate with the Ministry of Finance, with us and with regard to the budget, whatever the budget, and not just the main budgetary parameters. These are the local authorities. There's a lot of energy coming from underneath. Let's not clog it. Colleagues, support our proposal. It is an attitude towards the Bulgarian municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u48	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u49	Dear Mrs. Yankova, Mr. Chairman! Because you were at the National Association of Municipalities meeting, you didn't say anything wrong there. I guarantee you that this text does not disprove your words. The National Association of Municipalities conducts dialogue with the Ministry of Finance and will continue to conduct dialogue on all relations on the activities delegated by the State, on the matching subsidy, on the subsidy for capital expenditure and winter maintenance. But all these relationships in this Law are defined as basic budgetary relationships. This is why the........................................................................................................... is replaced with the municipalities................................................................................................................................................ It is natural that many more things could be interpreted outside of them, on which municipalities could, on the basis of the general text, want to have a dialogue. They conduct dialogue in that area, which includes these basic budgetary relations. You can look at the text in the Law and see who they are. This is all the relationship between delegated activities, matching subsidy, winter maintenance subsidy, capital expenditure and so on. So there is no restriction on the rights of municipalities here. The National Association of Municipalities has gone wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u51	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Stoyanova! We only refer to the proposal of the National Association of Municipalities. They are not confused, they are a large and strong organization that has consciously made a proposal under the Public Finance Act. This proposal to us, the MPs, you have it in the cabinet, and the chairmen of committees have it. It's their offer. I think they deserve such respect.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Will you use a hole, Mrs. Stoyanova?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u53	Respect has it, Mrs. Yankova, and no respect for the municipalities and the National Association of Municipalities has ever been denied. However, this is not about respect, it is about a clear and precise concept in the Law, which is defined and categorized. The clearer and more accurate the parameters, the easier they are then realized. We're not limiting anyone. The respect they have here is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MPs Georgi Turnovaliski and Dora Yankova, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 155 MPs: 63, against 42, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 11 on the Commission report. They voted 142 MPs: 88, against 36, abstention 18. Paragraph 11 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u55	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u56	We are voting on paragraphs 12, 13, 14 and 15 on the Commission report. Vote 150 MPs: 97 against 2, abstention 51. Paragraphs 12 to 15 including the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u57	According to § 16 there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 103 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The Minister of Finance may extend the period for the repayment of the loans under para. 1 per municipalities with another year, after which it can grant a single new loan from the central budget to refinance the outstanding amount of the loan with a recovery period of not more than one year. The extension and granting of a new loan is made on the basis of a reasoned proposal of the mayor of the municipality and in the case of a decision of the municipal council. 2. They're creating an al. 5 and 6: The maximum amount of the loan under para. 1 shall not exceed the amounts of the total matching subsidy and the target capital subsidy of the municipality concerned adopted by the annual State Budget Act. (6) Interest-free loans under para. 1 shall not be granted to municipalities where the decision of the municipal council to assume debt is adopted after the expiry of 39 months of its election.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u58	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 16 on the Commission report. They voted 145 MPs: 96, against 2, abstention 47. Paragraph 16 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u59	According to § 17 there is a proposal of the MPs Georgi Turnovaliski and Dora Yankova: Paragraph 17 is to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u60	You have the floor, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The changes provided for in art. 111, para. 1 are precisely related to the previous two debated texts of art. Article 51 and the new Article 51 55a, which is directly related to the change in budgetary relations between the central budget, the budget of municipalities and the opportunity to change them as the Council of Ministers sees fit. It is this text that is a confirmation of what we advocate, and contrary to what importers and government are trying to prove. What does art. 111? It is in it, in the head which I read to you just now and which excludes municipalities, in art. 111 so far, the Minister of Finance could change and make compensated changes in relation to the activities delegated by the State in terms of natural and value indicators. Now this falls away and whenever the Council of Ministers has decided not only on the basis of law, but also, I stress, on a decision of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Finance will have the indulgence, the right to make these changes in budgetary relations between municipalities and the central budget, which is actually our thesis that this is unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MPs Georgi Turnovaliski and Dora Yankova, which the Commission does not support. They voted 147 MPs: 57, against 42, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 17 on the Commission report. Vote 138 MPs: 88, against 36, abstention 14. Paragraph 17 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u63	According to § 18 there is a proposal of the MPs Georgi Turnovaliski and Dora Yankova: Paragraph 18 is to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u64	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MPs Georgi Turnovaliski and Dora Yankova, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 147 MPs: 56 against 43, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 18, which shall be supported by the Commission. 140 MPs voted: 91, against 38, abstention 11. Paragraph 18 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u65	According to § 19 there is a proposal of the MPs Georgi Turnovalyski and Dora Yankova: Paragraph 19 is to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u66	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u67	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The new texts create restrictions and prohibitions that are once again contrary to the principles of local self-government. Here again we support the National Association of Municipalities. The danger that the proposed texts lead to blocking the work of municipalities due to the inability to negotiate and carry out urgent costs in the event of a temporary deviation of only one of the indicators is real. I'll read to you what Al says. 3, the last sentence: if the revenue generated by the municipality budget is not implemented. How many don't they run? By 50%, by 0.1%? In what cases? There are ambiguities. We fully share the concerns of the National Association of Municipalities and therefore we make the proposal that these new texts should be dropped, cleared and, if necessary, proposed again after a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u69	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to what the Ministry of Finance is offering and what the BSP left Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u70	"BSP for Bulgaria"!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u71	... "BSP for Bulgaria" to enter into force. I will only read you the beginning of the text, which Mr. Turnovalyski read to you:
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u72	How much doesn't he get?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u73	...then she doesn't pay them because she has no place to pay them and then they secure her accounts, they enter bailiffs and she hangs out with the Ministry of Finance: The other text: "No increase of the outstanding liabilities available under the municipality's budget at the end of the year compared to those recorded at the end of the previous year, if the outstanding liabilities at the end of the previous year exceed the relevant costs. "................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would like to draw your attention to the fact that local self-government is a great principle, only that municipalities, and also colleagues on the left, confuse local self-government with local self-government for spending, without commitments to secure these costs in certain municipalities. In some I'd like to draw your attention to something else. When we here, with you, vote the main parameters of the budget for revenue, expenditure, budgetary balance, debt-based fiscal programme, honourable Members, includes the same relationships of municipalities. Each of their debt, each of their defaults, reflects in failure to comply with the budget balance voted by us to increase the deficit of the consolidated fiscal programme, and hence naturally to increase the debt. What our fellow Members are calling for on the left is that there is no budgetary discipline.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u75	Mrs. Stoyanova, Mr. Chairman! We only stick to one principle, which, under art. 128 what has been written down so far and we want it to be preserved: "No expenditure shall be incurred, a build-up of new cost obligations or a commitment to expenditure, and for the launch of programmes or projects not provided for in the annual budget of the municipality.' Yes, you make these arrangements, you must have your reasons. I regularly follow with written questions how the revenue part of the municipalities you are talking about is being implemented. There are municipalities that have 43% implementation of local taxes and fees and in parallel with this at the end of the year come to the Ministry of Finance and share problems. Perhaps it is good for the Budget Committee to have a conversation with the Association of Municipalities and with the Ministry of Finance in terms of parameters and percentages that municipalities do not implement. Here, we also want what you want. Don't blame us for things that haven't been mentioned in this tribune. The municipalities, yes, they must exert their revenue administration, collect local taxes and fees. I can give specific examples, municipalities with uncollected local taxes and fees of 2 million, 3 million, 2 million and more, and accordingly problems that are declared in a courteous form at the end of the year. For this reason we want principled relations and not further development in this version in which you share it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u76	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Here's a second line for you, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u77	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mrs. Stoyanova, I can't let you accuse BSP of being against the financial discipline of the municipalities. Let us respond to this text you are proposing and say that it disciplines municipalities by making them carry out unrealistic planning of their revenues so that they can do what they have decided, as capital expenditures. Is that what they're supposed to do? That's what you do in the state budget. You plan low incomes and do whatever you want, the same to the municipalities, in order for them to be good financial discipline. No, that's not disciplining the municipalities. This is forcing the municipalities to carry out the relevant activities which they have an obligation to society and by law to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u79	I am struggling to make a reply because what I have heard here from the replicators, they continue to argue that budgetary discipline for municipalities should not apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u80	Who said that? Stop it! Nobody said that thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u81	We very soon made a whole section of municipalities with financial difficulties, in which we described through many members and paragraphs how these municipalities should emerge from these financial difficulties, in how the Ministry of Finance intervenes with aid and with control so that these municipalities can emerge from this accumulation of debts and their condition of pre-falitis. Of course there will be a restriction, and on a legal level, so as not to go as far as municipalities have gone, which I don't want to quote now, here from this tribune. Dear colleagues, we cannot leave just because municipalities are independent, self-governing, they are sinking because in the end, this is paid by all taxpayers, not only by taxpayers in the territory of the municipality concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u82	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any other statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Georgi Turnovaliski and Dora Yankova, which the committee does not support. They voted 143 MPs: 53, against 40, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer for § 19, supported by the Commission. 140 MPs voted: 83 against 41, abstention 16. Paragraph 19 on the committee report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u83	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 130z, para. 2 shall be added at the beginning not earlier than one year after the start of the implementation of the financial rescue plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u84	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 20 to 23, including on the committee report. They voted 146 MPs: 96 against 1, abstention 49. Paragraphs 20 to 23 including the Commission's report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u85	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 25 and shall propose the following version. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 130k the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 3 the words of the municipal owner shall be replaced by the municipal owner; (b) c. 4 the word "the owners' shall be replaced by the "municipality'; (c) create a t. 6: It's six. non-compliance with three or more of the conditions of art. 130a, para. 1 and implementation of the fiscal rules applicable to municipalities. 2. In para. 2 the words "6 months' shall be replaced by "12 months'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u86	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 24 to 29, including on the committee report. They voted 142 MPs: 99, none, abstention 43. Paragraphs 24 to 29, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u87	There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for a new § 30. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 153, para. 10 at the end is added as well as EU funds and related national co-financing of the persons under art. 156, whether or not their remaining funds are included in the single account.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u88	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the committee to create a new § 30 with its respective content, in accordance with its report. They voted 143 MPs: 96 against 9, abstention 38. Paragraph 30 of the committee's report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u89	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 30, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 154 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The 9th sentence is first amended as follows: The services of the banks in the country of payments through the SBERA and the transit accounts under para. 4 - 8 is carried out on the basis of contracts concluded between the Ministry of Finance and banks, which may also include the operation of budgetary organisations for the collection of revenue and other revenue through card payments. 2. In para. 12 sentence first the words on behalf of the Ministry of Finance and at the expense of the Ministry of Finance shall be replaced by the words on behalf of the Ministry of Finance and at the expense of the central budget. 3. Paragraph 14 is amended as follows: For foreign funds accounts, European Union funds accounts and budgets of senior authorising officers with a budget which are not part of the state budget, the Minister of Finance may set their limits automatically on the basis of the total amount of the proceeds of the corresponding account in the Bulgarian National Bank. 4. In para. 20th sentence, second sentence, the words on behalf of the Ministry of Finance and at the expense of the Ministry of Finance shall be replaced by the words on behalf of the Ministry of Finance and at the expense of the central budget. 5. Alinei 22 and 23 are amended as follows: The Minister of Finance exercises general control, implements liquidity management and disposes of funds in the single account including by making deposits to the Bulgarian National Bank and banks, operations on the secondary market with government securities, loans operations of the Bulgarian National Bank and securities issued by it, as well as other operations with liquid and low risk securities of other countries, with assets under art. 152b, para. 16 and with the assets transferred to the State in the application of art. 152c, para. 7. In determining the general guidelines for liquidity management, the Ministry of Finance shall consult the Bulgarian National Bank. (23) On the basis of an act of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Finance may carry out, except in the cases under para. 22, guarantee and other deposits to banks for the purpose of financing through banks of projects under international programmes, and contracts and other purposes and payments, as well as to acquire on behalf of the State financial assets when applying government instruments for financial stabilisation and providing exceptional public financial support. 6. The creation of para. 24: The operations referred to in paragraph 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the procedures set out in the Annex to this Decision. 22 and 23 shall be made within the limits of the total availability of the single account by means of accounts of the central budget when providing current payments to the central budget and those included in the single account and SBERA budgetary organisations and persons under art. 156. "..........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u90	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 30 by importer, supported by the Commission and becoming § 31 in its report. They voted 141 MPs: 105, none, abstention 36. Paragraph 31 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u91	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u92	We are voting § 32 on the Commission report. They voted 134 MPs: 104, against 2, abstention 28. Paragraph 32 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u93	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 37. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 37, which shall become § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... The State Fund Act for the Sustainability of the State Pension System makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." deposits and accounts in the Bulgarian National Bank, its loans and securities issued by it; (b) the creation of para. 11? 14: The management of the assets of the fund under para. 1, t. 1, including their distribution in current, deposit and other accounts, shall be carried out by the Minister of Finance to optimize the cash management of the funds in the fiscal reserve. (12) In case of assets of the fund under para. 1, t. 1 are at negative interest/income, it is at the expense of the central budget. (13) For the funds of the fund held in current accounts served by the Bulgarian National Bank shall be calculated in favour of the Fund and at the expense of the central budget a yield of the interest applicable for the relevant period on deposit accounts served by the Bulgarian National Bank, subject to the requirements of para. 12. The calculated amount shall be translated in accordance with art. 11, para. 3. (14) The costs of servicing the Fund's accounts are entirely at the expense of the central budget. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 4 words................................................................................. 2 and 6' are replaced by "al'. 2, 6 and 7 (b) the creation of para. 7. The cash proceeds arising from the assets of art. 11, para. Art. 5 and art. 13, para. 9, shall be deposited and accounted for in the accounts of the Fund in the Bulgarian National Bank in accordance with art. 11, para. 3, to the extent that the Law or Act of the Council of Ministers does not determine otherwise.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u94	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the division "Concluding provisions', as well as paragraphs 33 to 38, including on the Commission report. Vote 138 MPs: 105 against 1, abstention 32. The term "Concluding provisions" and paragraphs 33 to 38 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u95	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 39. Under § 39, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 39, which becomes § 40 and proposes the following version: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... The State Debt Act shall make the following additions: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 1 is created t. 7. "7." for the financing of programmes and instruments for financial stabilisation and the provision of exceptional public financial support under the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29 A sentence second is created: The Bulgarian National Bank lays down by regulation the terms and conditions for acquisition, repayment, trading and settlement with securities issued by it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u96	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on paragraphs 39 and 40 on the Commission report. They voted 139 MPs: 102, against 1, abstention 36. Paragraphs 39 and 40 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u97	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 41, and shall propose the following version: ............................................................................. In the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms in art. 51 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1, t. 3 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 6a 2. A new para is being created. 5. The support under para. 3, p. 4 points (a) and (b) shall be provided by decision of the Council of Ministers, subject to the State Aid Act and the legal framework of the European Union for State aid, and after a positive decision by the European Commission, on the basis of a reasoned proposal from the Bulgarian National Bank to the Minister of Finance, which shall contain detailed information on the fulfilment of the conditions under para. 4 and for other circumstances relevant to the granting of the aid. 3. The creation of para. 6: By the decision under para. 5 The Council of Ministers shall determine the specific form and amount of exceptional public financial support and other conditions to be met and measures to be implemented. The Minister of Finance is responsible for the implementation of the Council of Ministers' decision. 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u98	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 41 on the Commission report. They voted 142 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 35. Paragraph 41 on the Commission's report has been adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. The next bill that we will consider is: FIRST VOICE OF LAWPROLECTION FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR LEGISLATION, No 754-01-45, dated 19 July 2017 The importer is the national representative Georgi Yordanov, as well as a group of MPs. The report of the Committee on Health will be presented to you by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, President of the Commission. Dear colleagues, guests from Third elementary school Gotse Delchev, they're on the balcony. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u99	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions, No 754-01-45, submitted by Georgi Yordanov Yordanov and a group of MPs on 19 July 2017. At its regular meeting held on 5 October 2017, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 754-01-45, submitted by Georgi Yordanov Yordanov and a group of MPs on 19 July 2017. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health Profesor Nikolay Petrov, the Deputy Minister of Health, Dr. Miroslav Nenkov, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health, patient organizations and others. The list of guests present at the meeting shall be annexed to the full transcript of the meeting. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the importer associate professor Dr. Georgi Yordanov. He informed the Members of the National Assembly that the bill aims to introduce statutory rules for the protection of patients and staff in medical institutions. The proposed bill is a response to the frequent manifestations of assault and violence against medical professionals in the country. According to the draft law under consideration in written opinions, the support was expressed: Bulgarian Medical Union. Support in general, Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, Bulgarian Association of Health Professionals, National Association of Municipalities, Association of University Hospitals in Bulgaria, CNSB, National Association of Private Hospitals. In written opinions, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Health expressed a position which did not support the bill. In the course of the discussion, MPs expressed a general disagreement with the Bill. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions, No 754-01-45, submitted by Georgi Yordanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 19 July 2017. PRESENT TSveta KARAYANCHEVA: Here you go, Mr. Gamishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u100	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 754-01-45, submitted by Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs on 19 July 2017. At its regular meeting held on 18 October 2017, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined and discussed the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions No 754-01-45, submitted by Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs on 19 July 2017. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Deputy Minister Krassimir Tzipov and Chief Inspector Georgi Georgiev. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by the National Representative Georgi Yordanov. In his statement he pointed out that the Bill introduced regulations for the protection of patients and staff in medical institutions. The main motive for the introduction of the Bill is the frequent attacks and abuse of medical professionals in the performance of their duties. Taking legislative measures is in order to cross the negative phenomenon and ensure a normal environment for the exercise of the medical profession. Medical professionals cannot work in an uncertain environment and the tendency to leave is increasing. The conditions and procedures for providing the care of patients and staff of medical institutions shall be regulated by a regulation issued by the Minister of Health in cooperation with the Minister of Interior. He stressed that medical institutions are an important element of national security. There is an opinion on the Bill from the Ministry of Interior, which notes that even now health institutions use security, in most cases it is unprofessional. In the event that importers had in mind the security of the Ministry of Interior, it should be pointed out that the Ministry of Interior has neither financial nor human resources to assume such an obligation. Under current legislation, medical institutions may conclude security contracts under the Private Security Act and, in the case of alerts for contrary action against patients and staff, the competent authorities of the Ministry are obliged to fulfil their obligations laid down in the Ministry of Interior Act relating to the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms and the fight against crime. People's representatives Manoil Manev and Tsvetan Tsvetanov took part in the debates. In their speeches, they announced that the questions raised by the Bill are important and should find their organisational solution. During the meetings with the participation of the Prosecutor General and representatives of the Ministry of Interior, measures and actions are identified to be effective. The Law of the Private Security Act regulates minimum standards for security, as well as a procedure to investigate the sites in which there is a threat. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 5 votes for the Health Institutions Act, No 754-01-45, submitted by Georgi Yordanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 19 July 2017, proposed that the draft supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions, No 754-01-45, submitted by Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs on 19 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Gamishev. Can we hear importer's motives? Here you go, Dr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u102	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposed amendment to the Law on Medical Institutions concerns statutory prerequisites, rules for the protection of patients during their treatment and of medical staff during the performance of their business activities. Why are we offering this? The emergency situation in the media knows much more about it than we do. We have daily problems from Vidin to Malko Tarnovo and from Blagoevgrad to Silistra. Every day our colleagues from emergency medical care meet with the aggression of those who have asked for their help and they are usually the victims. What brings this? It is not only important that they have physical injuries, the point is that they are demotivated to work in this field of health, which by all rules should be fundamental in the Republic of Bulgaria. Therefore, although the salaries rose slightly in the field of emergency medical care, we cannot find any staff there.... neither doctors nor nurses and paramedics. This isn't just about emergency medical care. Unfortunately, I have to add to my motives a few more, two of which are literally from the last days. The first of these concerns the situation in Pirogov, which unfortunately ended unhappily. There is a patient who is not admitted in an emergency, who should be under the supervision of medical personnel, unfortunately, succeeds in getting out of this staff and you all know what happens. The problem is what happened to those who had to treat him? You saw the photos of this woman beaten up, if I'm not mistaken at the Clinic of Maxillofacial Surgery. What we may want from her more? to give her abilities to the largest emergency hospital in Bulgaria, which cannot protect her during the delivery of medical care. Prof. Asen Baltov, Director of Pirogov, asked for urgent measures. Here I would just like to say to my colleagues from the Security Committee that we, Professor Asen Baltov, from Pirogov, asked for the activities of the medical teams in Pirogov to be guarded by the Ministry of Interior. Something that I, looking at the budget proposal, I don't think is real. The situation in Pazardzhik. Imagine 50 Roma armed, who surround the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment in Pazardzhik, seek retribution, vendetta for the death of two, unfortunately young people, and there on irony remains alive precisely the driver who caused the crash. What can Dr. Vasil Valchev do with his staff? To bring out nurses, nurses and doctors against these 50 armed citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria? There is also the reverse case, unfortunately, too negative when a midwife allowed herself in a famous metropolitan large hospital to traumatize a newborn child. It is also subject to protection and there must be rules for it to defend itself for its stay in the hospital. Last but not least, the issue of the protection of the activities of patients and medical professionals is related to the forthcoming introduction of rules for the protection of the personal data of patients, i.e. the protection of the personal data of the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. I don't know if you're aware of this right now, but some of the large operators with personal data are hospitals, and I am definitely telling you that they deal with patients' personal data there. The nurse can access the computer, the nurse, the doctor who wants to go in and get the personal data of a patient who's in the hospital. I was pleased to find out that a private security bill was being prepared. I think it's something useful in what we think should become a yes! The Ministry of Interior will not be able to guard hospitals and medical facilities, but private security companies must protect them. This has to be done by the book. I am responsible for telling you, as recently a hospital manager, that there is no necessary expertise in hospitals, there is no necessary knowledge on which we can draw up our plan in defence of our patients and medical professionals. We need competent medical attention. It is not true that there is no means for it and so far we have given it. We give them, but we can't organize the work properly. Understand, people who understand should help us in this, because our job is to treat patients, not protect them. There are other specialists who I respect very much. That's why we proposed this bill. I hope for your support as well. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u103	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u104	Madam President, honourable Members! After so much aggression in Bulgarian medical institutions, unfortunately, the result is too sad. I bring you an order he wishes to meet later by RZI, the city of Lovech, which is based on art. 10 of the Rules of Procedure of Regional Health Inspections, as well as Order RD No 01-336 of 25 September 2017 of the Minister of Health for the Implementation of the Cooperation and Interaction Agreement between the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Health in connection with Order RD No 09-407 of 26 September 2017 and Protocol of the meeting of 29 September. [[Shows the documents.]] As you can see, agreements, protocols, and in the end, we are witnessing another aggression. I think such orders are good yes, but they decide what the path is after the aggression has already been carried out, and our bill decides things before that happens. I think every head of a medical facility needs to know that it needs to ensure the protection of working medical personnel. Not just one doctor or nurse to be on duty in the same ward, not just at night to have guards, but by day. I very much ask the honourable Members to support our bill, because all this must be clothed with Law, not just with orders, agreements. Yes, they need to show the way what needs to be done and how we should react only when people are already beaten, abused, but this is not the way. Precautionary measures must be taken. One way is for each supervisor to take care of his people, not leave them like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u105	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Any lines to the statement? Come in, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u106	Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Naydenova, I would like to replicate you on the Agreement on Joint Action between the Ministry of Health, the Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Interior. In no case is what you have quoted at the moment being dictated only by aggression in medical institutions. Naturally, dealing with this problem is our common task, no one disputes that measures must be taken, but the quoted Agreement concerns many other activities between the three structures. There are controls on drugs and precursors that are carried out by the RGI under the control and direction of the laws and of the Ministry of Health, so you should not point out this document of joint activity between the three institutions as something which is almost now being dropped as instructions. If I am not mistaken about this joint activity, according to this document, is being carried out somewhere in the last maybe 7-8 years and includes many, many, many more tasks in which we cooperate with the prosecution and with the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u107	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u108	Mrs. Chairman, I'll take the floor for the back. I specifically pointed out the document and carried it from miles away to show it to you. On the basis of these documents for the Rules of Procedure of the RZI, the agreements have been issued. So these are quite regular documents that, excuse me, with orders they won't be able to protect us.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u109	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. Dr. Daritkova, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleagues on the left, I admire your good intentions, but, unfortunately, this bill will not be able to solve the problems of aggression in our society, because they are complex, require complex efforts and that you think that with the sentence you have proposed you will solve the problems of all hospital care facilities, the problems of relationships in the health system, I do not think that you are well enough formulating and really understand the gravity of the situation. In this situation, I believe that what you have proposed is a bad sign of normality. And I remember very well a president of the previous National Assembly who claimed that no case law was being made and that the Law should regulate lasting public relations. His name is Mikhail Mikov. And I think he's one of the good lawyers on the left. Maybe his legal expertise can be used because this bill is an example of that. I do not believe that aggression against the medics will be a lasting public treatment. I really believe that measures should be taken now and that trust in the system should be strengthened. But what do fellow Members of the National Assembly propose? In every hospital to ensure the protection of patients and staff. Within the meaning of the Law on Medical Institutions, medical institutions are general practitioners, specialists in outpatient care, mental doctors, laboratories, etc. Do you imagine in every office, according to your proposal, that security be provided!? Let us leave the financial justification of this Bill, which is extremely frivolous and unargumented. On the other hand, I do not think that in each such healing structure there is the same percentage of danger. It is precisely where the rate of aggression is higher in emergency aid that you have not proposed a solution, because this bill does not cover the system of emergency aid, which is not a medical facility. It may refer to emergency rooms, hospitals with a high emergency rate, but emergency assistance is beyond the scope of your proposed bill. I believe that such an approach is more populist than with serious arguments to seek a solution to the problems. We are looking for such solutions and will propose concrete ones, but in this case I believe that this bill has no reason to be supported. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u111	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. - What's the line? Here you are, Professor Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u112	Dear Chairman, dear Dr. Daritkova! First, I want you to ask Mr. Tsvetanov if security is only physical? In these small hospitals, it's not about having a security guard there. There's modern security equipment for cameras and so on, I'm not a specialist, but he'll present them to you better than I do, I guess. So they don't cost that much, but they have to have them. [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] Yeah, who's gonna make them? There's someone who can do it. In your speech, you have justified that there is indeed a problem in society. Yes, we know that society is under stress. We understand that. Why he's stressed, we know that, but we know something else. We decided to socialize the mentally ill and let them go. Except we didn't hang their personal assistants to keep tabs on their behavior. And then in the big cities they started for a parking spot to draw guns and a cool gun. This continues in the healthcare system. We won't be able to handle this entirely, but we need to take action. And we have to start somewhere. Because our loved ones, our children, can't go to the hospital and no one to guard them.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u113	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Second line, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Daritkova, I am very impressed with the way in which you summarized and marked the deficit of the Bill of colleagues from BSP. What you highlighted is the complex approach. And because everyone talks and gives examples of specific incidents of aggression, you even gave here at the moment and for a parking space where people are already quite aggressive until we strengthen the parent-child relationship, the aggression will continue to exist. Because, just to tell you, according to doctors who are psychiatrists, drug addiction leads to mental disorders that lead to certain aggression. And that is why I fully support what Dr Daritkova said about the complex approach and that there should be a completely different understanding in society. We cannot say that institutions should always provide a policeman or a security guard in a parking space, in a restaurant, in a medical establishment. It's a way of organizing the corresponding structure. And it must do what is necessary, and we, as politicians and all those who want to actively participate in civil society, must actually contribute to reducing this aggression, even here in this House. Because in its small part, the parliamentary tribune is sometimes used to provoke aggression in society. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. [[Applause from GERB.]] Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Daritkova, I don't know how long we have to wait for this complex approach. One, two, three years? Sit around and watch people get beaten up? Should we wait, perhaps, to close down the medical facilities, because then we will solve really all problems in the field of healthcare? After all, you've managed so long, you've accumulated over 500 million debts. BGN, you do not know how to solve this problem, the medical workers leave the country, there is a huge deficit, of doctors, nurses, of people to take care of Bulgarian healthcare. And here we keep talking about this complex approach. Only people want action now. I see that a short time ago the speaker said that people should probably start organizing themselves, because there are no institutions to protect them. There are no state institutions to take care of the peace of Bulgarian citizens. Therefore, every medical establishment or any municipality, or every locality, must only be protected. That's the difference between you and me. We really want institutions to take care of the safety of Bulgarian citizens. This should also be a role of the state and not of private security companies who may be worried that they will now lose their jobs. And at the same time have one quality health care. But this complex approach, which we have been waiting for for for years, you have no intention of doing it, on the contrary, you are witnessing the degradation of Bulgarian healthcare. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u117	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u118	My fellow Members, I have always believed that an example of countering aggression should be given to us here, the MPs, with our speech, because it is a fact that democracy does not choose the best, but the like. Therefore, in a spirit of positivism and consensus last week, we supported the valuable bill for changing the Law in medical institutions, Professor Klisarova, because it guarantees better access to Bulgarian patients. But this bill does not solve problems, we are not tempted by populism like you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u119	Give me your suggestions!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u120	On the contrary, we want to have sustainable norms that solve society's problems. And we're looking for one.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u121	So, where are they?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u122	In the Forty-second National Assembly, all MPs, of all parliamentary groups, despite the tone of tensions then, supported the change in the Penal Code, the criminalisation of attacks against medics. This is an example of consensus and a complex approach. All of this today, of course, needs to be developed, but in no case what you have proposed without financial justification, without sufficiently clear parameters, does not solve the problems of aggression in medical institutions and there is no point in this legal norm to validate and accept at all. Bulgarian healthcare will seek solutions to its problems, but this Bill is a good intention, dressed in extremely bad legal form. So I suggest that the MPs do not accept it. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u123	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Dr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll say to the whole room: support our bill! Because it involves managers and managers of medical institutions to provide absolutely all medical facilities and if you believe that only sole traders, general practitioners are present in these hospitals, they are located in the territory of medical centers in small settlements and in a particular building. In this building, you can take her to a medical facility... It's the same thing with medical centers. These medical centers employ medical professionals, along with their administrative staff, who are also subject to protection. Emergency medical records are on hospital grounds, they're not aliens or anywhere on the street. They are located in the territory of hospitals, Dr. Daritkova, and they are not some kind of alien. Only administratively are held as a division. They have separate administrations. The hospital, along with emergency services, can provide both hospital security and emergency services. And here the philosophy and the Bill, the idea is that the medical institutions, the staff, the doctors, all of the support staff, as well as the Bulgarian citizens who go to the territory of these hospitals, should be protected. Because in this practice, patients and doctors and medical staff are not enemies. They help each other out. We're partners, not enemies. As this tribune said, what are the doctors in Bulgaria? So in the name of consensus, I call on you to support the bill. It includes such hospital managers who do not sign contracts and do not provide any security to hospitals at all. Only certain hospitals have that kind of security. And it's not just an emergency. I've been an emergency doctor for 17 years. And I know what kind of war these doctors get thrown into. Because they go to an address, and there, as was phone 112 for two years unserved, do you know what kind of pressure the doctor goes in there? And he doesn't really know that he's been delayed 40 or 50 minutes. And going there, you know what the family does to this doctor? If you're late, you'll be late too. So let the state do its job and provide normal working conditions for both doctors and citizens. So, fellow Members, let's support the bill! [[Applause from BSP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u125	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. Is there a line to your colleague's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u126	Madam President, honourable Members, I expected this discussion to go under the sign of real consensus and with the care of Bulgarian doctors. Frankly, I am surprised by the dissatisfied discussion, because the years we have wasted back, sinking into the swamp of inaction and lack of attitude towards the Bulgarian doctor, who is almost daily subjected to aggression by patients, unfortunately, precisely those who should receive the medical care, today had to give a final conclusion with the adoption of this Bill. I do not agree with these conclusions being drawn here that, you see, this Law does not give a complex approach. On the contrary, read carefully! This is an absolutely complex approach in this direction because we untie the hands of the institutions to find the right direction in which to protect Bulgarian doctors, whether with video surveillance, as colleagues have said, whether with physical security or otherwise. Everyone here in this Chamber has in some way a doctor or here in this Chamber, there are enough doctors to understand the essence of the proposed Bill. I cannot agree in any way that here, with us, there is a kind of person who beats doctors. I understood what you meant. We are not like those who beat doctors, we are the ones who need to find a solution to the problem. Today's Bill, which was initially enthusiasticly adopted and supported, Mr. Tsvetanov, by your group, I do not understand why today is rejected?! [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] It goes on the agenda with your consent, because you know the order. To date, you surprise us with a similar reaction.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u127	The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u128	I am beginning to believe that this is an emancipation of all the health problems that the other day also found the peak of the minister's resignation. I call on all my colleagues here in this House to unite on this bill, because, again, I say, each one of us has close doctors. Personally, I have two brothers who are doctors. There are enough doctors in this House right now who want and wish to vote on this bill. Let us not close this page because the really complex approach is not just discussions and round tables with which to look for the solution to this problem. We are now giving a real solution to this problem. I beg you: do not reject it, because this way we will close the door and turn our backs on the Bulgarian doctors. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines to his statement? I can't see. A statement has been made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am obliged, after this discussion, to note, however, what the proposal is. It is art. 7a: The medical institutions shall ensure the protection of patients and staff under conditions and arrangements laid down by a regulation issued by the Minister of Health, jointly with the Minister of Interior. Question: who provides security in a medical facility? Who's in charge of this security? [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] Yes, it may not be a precise proposal to provide security to both doctors and patients. This is replaced by another regulation in the management of this medical establishment. Why are you running away from taking responsibility? The Minister of Health and the Minister of Interior shall jointly draw up arrangements to ensure both security and security. It's also a preventative activity. This will ensure the peace of these patients and the doctors who work in the hospital. Your activity and this response, which you give to such a proposal, ladies and gentlemen of the Political Party GERB, is precisely to preserve the Minister of Interior, who is responsible for securing this security, the calmness of Bulgarian citizens throughout the country, including when it comes to the abuse of both patients and doctors and workers in medical institutions. The Minister of the Interior in question does not have the competence to sign the order in which this is provided, or are you now in an interpretation of what exactly will this regulation say? Honourable Members, the capacity of management is evident in precisely such a proposal, which is made by the opposition, in order to have a clear regulation on how we respond to what is asked, to this stress in healthcare workers, precisely by attacks. How and in what way will you respond to this request? Not to look at national emissions almost daily for self-righteousness with those who are called to respond to the preservation of the life and health of the Bulgarian citizen. What is your answer? We'll think about it or think about it. Well, think about what's suggested. Why won't you take responsibility? Where is she? Mr. Tsvetanov, I understand your concern. You're the congressman in the parliament who's guarding the Home Office. You are personally affected in connection with your statement against the Bulgarian doctor here, from this parliamentary tribune. So help the Home Secretary to sign these rules! Mr. Tsvetanov, you remember that you organized a discussion on securing security in Bulgarian theatres. Then you were surprised to learn that it was the manuals of these theaters that were responsible for this security. However, their call was: "Metodical guidelines and a regulation on which they could carry out these duties. " Why are you running away from liability in medical institutions for these methodical instructions, prescribed in a regulation in order to comply with it. Your colleagues paid attention. There are such hospitals that, due to financial shortages or negligence, do not provide such security, do not provide security. Where does responsibility go, or will you drive it without responsibility, as you manage? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u131	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Iankov, in your speech everything has become clear, you have only neglected to say one thing to your colleagues that by running away from this responsibility you are calling for, reaching a state in which we deny that it is necessary to have an interaction between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Interior in carrying out their duties to provide quality medical assistance and to protect the staff on one side and on the other, you have failed to remind GERB colleagues that any next who are subjected to violence a doctor, apart from having to be held responsible by the bully, will also have to be held accountable to those who are against this Law. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u133	That was a first line. Is there a second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, thank you for at least listening to the accent I made in my speech about responsibility. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] This is to you, Mr. Tsvetanov, because you were having a phone call, but you heard your name and now I will be curious to hear what a personal explanation you will make in front of the Chamber, because the question of responsibility is also in the parliamentary group of GERB, not only in the executive power. You are together responsible for what is happening in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u135	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Come in for a personal explanation, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Member of the National Assembly, I can tell you this: the Congress of BSP has passed [[Laughter and single applause at GERB]] And please, let's concentrate on the real things that we need to do. What you have announced and quoted my name, I can tell you that if we look at and watch what happened all these years, you were the ones who closed the SAT at the Ministry of Interior. Many of these hospitals were related to this particular security activity which could help them to have a faster response and detention of the violent persons concerned. You only did that two years ago. You, Mr. Iankov, were involved in the debate we organised in the Internal Commission regarding the forthcoming legislation on private security activities. In the Private Security Act, many of the things are scheduled, and that is where the responsibility to the security companies and the coordination that will be improved with the Ministry of Interior will answer this question. Coming out of the stands here and saying that almost all those who are here on this side of the room, on the right, are people who wouldn't want to support legislation that is related to measures and security that must be guaranteed in every state office, that is populism. What Dr. Daritkova said all along talked about the fact that when there is a bill that is meaningful, it can be supported and this was done last week. I'm sorry, this bill was also rejected in the Internal Commission because of this deficit and lack of knowledge of matter, and the search for only populism and your populist actions, which are common to you and there are constantly false news that you think you can actually bind them to your congress. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u137	Thank you. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. We are voting for a bill supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 754-01-45, submitted by Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs on 19 July 2017. Please, voting mode. Vote 172 MPs: 72 against 44, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. Dear colleagues, today we celebrate the Day of the People's Buddhists, one of the brightest Bulgarian holidays, a day of spirituality and nationality. Today we honor those scribes, revolutionaries and educators who have played an important role in preserving Bulgarian nationality, using the power of speech, knowledge and culture. I congratulate the students, teachers and scientists on the occasion of the celebration. Let us remember the work of the people's Buddhists because it brings an important message that education and science are at the root of prosperity. Today the guests of parliament were students and citizens from Radnevo, Zlatitsa, Gotse Delchev, Plovdiv, Veliko Tarnovo and Velingrad, as well as students from Veliko Tarnovo University. [[Applause.]] On our vacation in the Northern lobby, the Sofia Boys Choir will greet us. Happy Thanksgiving! Half an hour off. The meeting will be held at 12:30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u138	Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing with the programme for today. The next bill which we are about to examine has been made in accordance with Article. 53, para. 8 by importers Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. This is the third item in the updated programme for today: the first vote of the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are two proposals under this Law that the examination of which began last week. Therefore, the points to be considered today, which are imported under the special order of art. 53, para. 8 shall appear as a continuation of the presentation of the two bills and the reports heard by the committees through which the bills have been passed. The continuation will take place with separate, separate examination and voting of the two bills, and the examination of each of them will continue with the presentation of the bills by an importer. Moving on to point three, as I've already announced: FIRST VOICE OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE LEGISLATION AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CIVIL REGISTERATION OF 26 July 2017, with importers Iskren Veselinov and a group of Members of the National Assembly. Who will present the bill? Presenting the bill from the importers, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the importers, I will inform you of the reasons for the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act. The Law specifies the provisions of the Law on Civil Registration concerning the entry of a father's name in the birth certificate of Bulgarian children born outside the country. After 2010 administrative practice has been imposed under the unchanged legal framework, according to which a father name is refused in the Bulgarian birth certificate, according to the Bulgarian name system, of children born outside Bulgaria, if such name is not explicitly stated in the foreign birth certificate. However, such a name is not intended to exist in the name systems of most countries around the world. As a result of this practice, Bulgarian children born to Bulgarian citizens are recorded in the register of the population with only two names of their own and family, as are recorded for example naturalized foreigners in Bulgaria. The parents of these children are forced to defend their rights in judicial order through a court procedure to change their name by adding their father's name, and this is associated with costs of time, resources and efforts, including involving a lawyer. In recent years dozens of cases have been filed, notice, dozens of cases before regional courts on request for the addition of a father's name to already issued birth certificates. Since these citizens most often do not live in Bulgaria, there are probably thousands who, given the ignorance or burdens of a judicial procedure, or geographical remoteness, refuse to conduct such cases and their children remain with only two names. The cases of children from the same parents, the older of which was born before 2010 and was added by their father's name in their birth certificate when they were drawn up, and the other child was later born by the same parents and was entered in the register of the population in Bulgaria without a father's name due to the refusal of the administration in Bulgaria to register his father's name. With the practice of refusing to add a father's name, the state, in the face of its civil services, subjected to generation of Bulgarian children born outside Bulgaria by artificially distinguishing them from Bulgarian children born on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria despite the constitutional principles of equal treatment, as well as the explicit provision that I quote: "Bulgarian citizens, wherever they are, have all the rights under this Constitution. 26, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The name of a human being is the foundation of his identity, it is an element of his uniqueness. The name defines belonging to a family, the relationship between its parents, but also belonging to an ethnocultural space, to a nation. In the Bulgarian name system, the father's name is particularly valuable. It represents the blood but also the social relationship with the parent and gives the child support and confidence in life. It is no accident that even the children abandoned in a shelter, with unknown parents or those with an unknown father, the legislator has provided for a mechanism to give them a father's name.. These are the provisions of Articles 15 and 17 of the Civil Registration Act. Special attention is paid to adopted children, so that they can receive the father's name as well. The absence of a father's name also creates difficulties in returning to the country of Bulgarian children born outside Bulgaria, both in the public environment, in their school, in contacts with their peers and difficulties in carrying out each administrative service. The proposed amendments to the Law on Civil Registration allow parents of a child born outside Bulgaria to ask for this is not mandatory, the parents should ask for it, entry of a father name in the process of issuing the Bulgarian birth certificate of their child, when such a name is not contained in the foreign document and when the parents have declared desire for it. It is also very important that the legal possibility is provided for in the case of already drawn up acts by administrative order of Bulgarian citizens born outside the territory of Bulgaria to also be able to ask for his father's name to be entered in his birth certificate. When the person is underage, the entry will be made with a written application from his parents. In this case, colleagues, the chosen legal and technical technique is similar to others provided by the legislator, with the addition of attachments -ov, -ev or for women -a for the names of Bulgarians born abroad. In this case no prerequisites for double identity are created, given the volume of data found in the personal registration card of each Bulgarian citizen, and these are: BGN, date, place of birth, parents' names, brothers, sisters, changes in the civil status, including in the names, as well as the introduction of biometric Bulgarian identity documents. The addition of a father's name shall include an additional element of identification, supplementing the information on its relationship with the corresponding ascendant in the reconfigured document on the civil status. I sincerely hope, my fellow Members, that this issue, which should not be disputed in any way, should be for all those equally perceived overparty, and I hope that all the groups will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u140	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Mr. Borisov presented the Bill. I'm opening the debate. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take part in the bill tabled? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration, No 754 01 48, submitted by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. Please vote. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]] Go ahead, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would first like to thank all those who supported this Bill, which really creates prerequisites to deprive the Bulgarian citizens of an administrative burden, who have maintained their family feeling despite their long-term residence abroad. In connection with the unanimous support of this Bill and the fact that no statements have been made suggesting changes between first and second readings, I suggest we take advantage of the opportunities our Rules give and look at it at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u142	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. I put to the vote Mr. Veselinov's procedural proposal, the bill just adopted at first reading, to be put to the vote and to the second reading. Please vote. They voted 106 MPs: 95, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. We move on to a second reading of the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration. You have the floor, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: When drawing up an act for the birth of a Bulgarian citizen born outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, his father's name when he is missing in the copy under art. 72, para. 1 shall be entered in the act if this is stated in writing by the parents of the person. 2.The Previous Al. 2, 3 and 4 become respectively para. 3, 4 and 5. § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72, para. 3 in the text before t. 1 the words "no change" shall be deleted. § 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76 the following amendments and additions are made: 1.A new para is being created. 3: In administrative order, a Bulgarian citizen born outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria may request that his father's name be entered in the birth certificate if it is not in the issued act. Where the person is underage, the entry shall be made by written application from his parents. 2.The current al. 3 becomes para. 4. 3.The current al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words............................................................................................... 19-a' are replaced by the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u144	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's just one concern for me to express. I agree with the text proposed by colleagues, but with regard to the written statement by parents, there are hypotheses, cases where there are virtually unknown parents, you know, abandoned children. In these cases, I don't know what to do. There's kids with guardians and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u146	Thank you, Mr. Popov. [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any lines to the statement? [[Heckling]] Mr. Lazarov, if you'd like the floor, please. No. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u147	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'm glad this Bill at first reading passed. I hope the second time will pass because this battle started in the previous parliament, so that the Bulgarian name tradition can be shared by all Bulgarians in the world, provided that their parents wish. Since BSP colleagues have asked.. there are other provisions of the Law that give this opportunity, so let them read them. My statement in particular on these texts and the support it gathers in this House is a surprise which, as of last week, is still under way... why, for example, DPS colleagues do not support such a proposal, including in the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad, they voted abstentions? Including today in the hall they do not vote and do not support this Bulgarians abroad to have the opportunity to have a second name, perhaps because they like the tradition of another country where there are only two names. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] My wish is really, if they are a Bulgarian party, to vote and to support this proposal, because it concerns all Bulgarian citizens abroad and not just concrete ones. I also hope that colleagues from the party will support the proposals at second reading because we have seen that they abstained from voting at second reading. Given that the President of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad is from this party, it was illogical for me not to support but to refrain from seeing this Law at second reading. I think that the chairman of a committee who takes care of Bulgarians abroad is obliged to come out and support and not to vote abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u148	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Are there any lines? I don't see any demand for a reply to Mr. Angelov's statement. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Donchev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u149	It's a line, not a statement. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Angelov, we abstained simply because we thought there might be time to think about further amendments to the Law, not because we did not support it. We voted in the first vote on the vote on the vote on the vote. They also voted in favour, as far as I saw all of the BSP party, and I see no reason why you are somehow campaigning against them now possibly to vote against them. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u150	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Are there any MPs who wish to make speeches? I can't see. Mr. Dimitrov, you're signaling for what? For a statement? Give the pό a sign on time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u151	I beg your pardon, Mr. Chairman. You're absolutely right in blaming me. The BSP colleague was absolutely right. It is possible that there may be ambiguity in interpretation somewhere abroad. If there's no parent, then there's no one to make the offer. In this regard, I propose to add the text: the parent or other legal representative of the person, as agreed by our Family Code. [[Heckling]] He's got it. They want him to have it one more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u152	Mr. Dimitrov, did you make a proposal for an editorial amendment or how do we understand the statement? [[Noise and lines.]] Formate, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After the text: If it is writtenly claimed by the parents of the person, add to it other legal representatives. That's § 1, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u154	Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a vote on the bill under consideration. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Dimitrov for editorial amendment or supplement of the text of § 1, para. 2 shall be entered in the act after the words.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Please vote. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. [[Applause.]] The motion is accepted. The bill is to be voted along with the editorial amendment by text of an importer. We are voting on the entire text of the Bill with the newly adopted editorial amendment. They voted 127 MPs: 126 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. The Second Reading Bill has now been adopted in full. Dear Members of Parliament, we are moving to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CIVIL REGISTERATION. We are looking at this Bill, submitted on the basis of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure. He has No 754-01-38, importers Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. Presentation by an importer. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u155	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, I will present the reasons for our bill. A fundamental human right is the choice of name. When this is broken, basic democratic principles of society are violated. It was such principles that were violated in the period 1984 - 1989. Colleagues, many of us often need to be reminded of this fact, which in turn leads to a reminder of the violent change of names in purely formal administrative principles. So we have to go back to this pain all the time and we have to end this administrative bureaucratic harassment. Each of us has an E.N.N.N.N., and it can be traced back to every person's story. That is the point of our proposed bill. We are constantly receiving signals from Bulgarian citizens with Turkish-Arabic names that during their administrative service and in particular when issuing certificates and copies of civil status certificates, they are quite often asked by employees to report their Bulgarian names. As we know, the Civil Registration and Instruction Act No 1 of 22 June 2001 for the application of art. 19a of the same Law regulate the order to restore the previous names of Bulgarian citizens who were changed in violent order by totalitarian power in Bulgaria. After the successful completion of the procedure, the civil status official under art. Art. 12 and Art. 13 of the Instruction is obliged to reflect the change in both civil status and information funds of the Esgraun. Since this is the case, we consider it absolutely unacceptable and affecting the conscience and feelings of citizens to require them to communicate in writing or oral personal data which the official concerned may obtain by means of his or her access to the EGRAON and related registers. It is even more unacceptable and painful to require citizens suffering from the so-called rebirth process to indicate the names that were forced upon them in that dark period. In order to cross such ineligible and unlawful practices, we propose once and for all to be obliterated in the Esgraun forcibly imposed during the revival process the names of these Bulgarian citizens are created a new § 1b, as well as to introduce an explicit ban on such data being required by civil servants through the creation of a new para. 2 of art. 40. In this way, it will be ensured that the employee who allowed himself, in the future, to require citizens to provide such data, will be sanctioned by virtue of art. 116, para. 1 of the Civil Registration Act. With the other amendment in the Law, we propose a definitive mechanism which will once and for all solve the problem of restoring the names of the deceased Bulgarian citizens who have become victims of forced renaming during the revival process and who have not been able to recover them in accordance with § 2 of the repealed Law on the names of the Bulgarians, or under § 1a of the current Act. Both of the above legal mechanisms did not fully fulfil their purpose due to a number of obstacles of an objective and subjective nature. In the end, the public conscience and morals require the state, just as it forcibly took away their birth names without their consent, to restore them without burdening their heirs with unnecessary duties. Colleagues, I am also part of those Bulgarian citizens who have been forced to change their names. I've recovered them. Provided that I appear in the Unified Register with my own names, there is no reason in the Bulgarian legislation to have practices for requiring the names that have been forcibly changed. Tell me, where is the human? I mean, it needs synchronization, and there's nothing else we're talking about. At the same time, many colleagues talk about volitions. Colleagues, may I remind you that under the threat of a gun, under the barrel, who is this man who will not be forced to change his name? We might even go further, even though it is said that this law is what we are trying to confuse with family memory. I ask: did anyone ask my parents and me personally when they were mistaken in my family memory, when my parents, fathers, mothers, friends, were lying in hospitals because they were beaten? I only give examples. Or to claim that we want to clear out past ages. Absolutely no one wants to cross past ages. Memory is a very important thing to remember, but not to repeat bad practices. And it is even more disgraceful to claim that no one has the right to be ashamed of their Bulgarian name. I am ashamed of the act, which the Bulgarian state imposed on us, and to say that it was not shameful. It is shameful, colleagues, when not practices, the totalitarian state imposed a violent change of names of Bulgarian citizens. Therefore, we as importers do not seek confrontation, but we want a justice that has no idea to oppose anyone in Bulgarian society. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u156	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. I'm opening the debate. Are there any eligible MPs? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! See what the difference is: we are looking at successively two draft laws - one of the "United Patriots" addressed to newborns - to Bulgarian citizens from abroad, and the other draft legislation submitted by the DPS in relation to deceased people. In the first draft Law by the United Patriarchs, there were almost no MPs from the DPS. These newborn Bulgarians abroad do not care about how their rights will be protected. In all several votes both by procedure and essentially by first reading, second reading, correction, have you noticed that there was not a single vote by the DPS? Total indifference, spoken in the mother tongue. What do they care about the DPS? Their name system in their country, Turkey, was correctly noted here, knows two names. What do we need the Bulgarians for, three names? Let a time come when we too will adopt that system. And here we all Bulgarians is the dream, in a further and further perspective, and we should adopt that model, if you will, even those times. The time will come, they think, there will be a revival process in the opposite sense, a revival process from some other times, another era. I don't want to be more specific, you know, the illusions I'm doing, with the three large mohamedans in Bulgaria, the one XIV century, the other XVI century, the last XVII century, in the Rhodope Mountains. A moment ago, a very respectful representative from BSP came to me and asked me the question: should we answer to give them the opportunity to stand before their electorate, or should we shut up and end up here without excessions? Because there will be excesses, of course, there can be no excesses. Indeed, this bill has been submitted for excesses. It is of the order of those who the DPS periodically imports from time to time pό retail, pό small to try to break through. In one case, he succeeded, especially when they were ruling, and such small bills, one by one, succeeded, broke through, and some declarations condemning the revival process. That was then. But you will ask the question: if there is no chance now, why is it done? Well, to measure our temperature, to see how we react. Not so much for their electorate, dear Mr. Mirchev. This Law is not intended for their electorate. They have it ready, consolidated. That's where you work at the level of mullahs, you know, hodjas, I don't know what their guides are. There's no up and down there, there's no agree. There our ordinary notions, the electoral notions of what political forces do as good and bad as the mood, doesn't matter at all. That's where the ethnic instinct works, and that's the end of it. This Bill is designed for us........................................................................................ That's the question, that's the problem, that's the experience, and it's, notice, what, I'd say insanity, at first glance, how to return some old names of deceased people? Orwell...1984. There, the great brother or those who were in charge, or the bad ones, to call them in one word, periodically clearing records, changing dates, facts, names, circumstances, and was this the Commission's constant task, in truth? Something like that is being suggested now. And once again, there's been an attempt to nail the fake story of coercion. It is good that today several times as a leitmotive in the statement of the importer was mentioned about the coercion during the revival process. [[Heckling]] I am a witness and a contemporary of what happened 30-35-40 years ago. I am sure that now, when some ideologists, some political overlays and conjuncture moments will be dropped after so many years, which have repeatedly caused this subject to be interpreted in a completely wrong way, a rethink of the assessment will begin. When the DPS were in charge, in this room came the declaration, actually not once, with which this trial was condemned. But I'm sure, as always, from the United Patriarchs, from Ataka, we have told you, it will be years and many people will come to ours that we have told. And here there will be revaluations and objective judgements for that time in view of events that we forget about the bombings, the actions of the Turkish special services in Bulgaria, for separatistism, which has already been evident, and they must be taken into account in the context of what happened in the 1980s. The benefit of such attempts by the DPS is in this direction, and it is good that we will start talking about these things. And again we're going to start because I remember that 90% of the people who were changed names did it very consciously. They wanted it. [[Voices: "Eee!" by DPS.]] Yes, I say it with the greatest responsibility. And the excesses that were obtained were the result of the actions of the Turkish services, of radicalized elements that created excesses in Bulgaria in many respects and guidelines. What happened back then was the result of what happened on the train for mothers with children, the bomb that exploded in Sofia, the dozens of attacks, the dozens of terrorist acts that were carried out in many places in the country. I cannot list them and give even more typical examples of everything that happened. Moreover, as a result of that time, he is also the successor of those terrorist organizations, or at least one of them, is the party that stands, or the group, because it is not a party, and right now in the National Assembly, between us. Idea heir, successor in relation to many of the people, the footage that were then at the heart of the acts of terrorism and those structures of non-formal, non-formal, which then, like closer or more distant Balkan countries, were able to fit into the socio-economic, political life of Bulgaria, were cleared and are currently continuing their illegal, that fight for destabilization of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian community. My fellow Members, I have called many times from this platform and in previous editions of the National Assembly: we can here, the Bulgarian parties on the left, the right, who in opposition, when do we, on certain matters, love each other, hate each other, oppose ourselves, but we can never and should not break our Bulgarian feeling, the vow we must give ourselves to preserve, save and preserve our country. Here between us in the last 25 years there has always been and continues to have a political power that has nothing to do with our aspirations and dreams for a sublime, strong Bulgaria, understood differently by different us, but I am sure all wishing such Bulgaria. And when it is imported, when such effort is made by the DPS, we must be absolutely united. It is not so important to me that this bill will be rejected. The issue is the emphasis with which we must reject it in order to signify national unity, cohesion, and that is today's Day of the Buddhists. Not to be like in the Committee on Religions, where there were 12 votes against the Law and I cannot understand the esteemed People's Representative from Volja. Ma'am, do you understand what this is about? That's weird. [[DPS lines.]] I'm not gonna quote names. This is about fundamental things, questions that are fundamentally Bulgarian. Therefore, from this stand, I call on you all to vote strongly against this bill, because it is a sign.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u158	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. A line sign? Here's the first line to Mr. Shopov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Shopov, the first thing I can think of is: this is why the whole of Europe is fighting nationalism because there are no values, because the foundations you are talking about, Mr. Shopov, are scary. Two things have become clear from your statement. First of all, you don't understand the proposal under the Bill. It's not about the dead people. Both my colleagues and myself have asked me for a certificate from where I live that if you see these names that I have, they're the same person. Yes, but, Mr. Shopov, I am a Bulgarian citizen, I was born in Bulgaria, in Smolyan, and I want a certificate of uniformity of the names that this system has imposed on me. For you, these people who fought the system are radical elements because they were radicalized, who opposed the system. Well, your leader, wasn't he 1989 in the squares? Is he a radical element? It's a radical element. That is why, Mr. Shopov, the whole of Europe is talking about a lack of values on the part of nationalists because you have never understood the fundamentals of the state. The other thing that became clear from your statement, Mr. Shopov, is that normality in the state was only when the DPS was involved in the management. It's okay now. It's okay. You are imposing a policy of nationalisation, of finite elements, as you said, Mr. Shopov. It's a retreat from values, from human values. Understand one thing: European values are values of democracy, of tolerance, of mutual recognition. They're not made-up values. These are the human values that are foreign to you. You don't understand the bill or the pain of all these people, Mr. Shopov. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u160	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Second line, come in. [[DPS lines.]] We've heard one line from the DPS, now two, for the third line I'll give the floor to the MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Member Shopov, you have well started quoting George Orwell and "1984" but you have neglected to mention the slogans of the big brother, who, unfortunately, correspond to the slogans of colleagues from the DPS: "Freedom is slavery, war is peace, ignorance is power." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u162	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Here's a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u163	We're gonna get you your DSS application, Pavka! [[Radio and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u164	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u165	They remind my colleagues, I'm not lucky to have this memory that you applied for DPS membership, Mr. Shopov, but that's not why I'm going out. [[Applause and excitement in DPS.]] It is understandable that you may not remember many turns you have made over the years. You and your political power are a shame. You're a disgrace to patriotism! You are a disgrace to the parliamentary and political elite of Bulgaria! You are a stone on the neck that will sink GERB! And since it's Buddhist Day, I'm going to quote Botev, you're idiots! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u166	Mrs. Krasteva!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u167	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u168	Here you go, Professor. I couldn't, of course, predict the quote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u169	It's not over!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u170	In the manner of conduct immediately.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u171	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Here, a legitimate party, voted for by several hundred voters, was called the idiots. Those who call us idiots who stand against me are precisely the embodiment of idiotism, because they allow themselves to call us from here in all kinds of words that I have never called them. [[DPS lines.]] I never said you were idiots. Here came your MP in the last term and called me an idiot. And you know why? Because I stopped him from reciting to Botev Patriots and making fun of Bulgarian nationalism. This is where they took me out of the building just because I interrupted this guy. I cut him off, replicated him and got kicked out of the gym. And that was a disgrace. I don't understand, since you're writing on your slogans together, where's your togetherness? You're on your own, and it's clear you are. Every time I refrain from going out, grew up among Turks, worked and worked, continued working with Turks. In my line of work, I have a quota for Turks. [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]] They can tell you that. I have a quota I'm holding for. Don't replicate me, don't yell at me! You didn't hear what I said. [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]] Stop crying at me like savages and listen to what I have to say. I don't hate the Turks, but you create this language of hate. [[Loud noise and lines, knocking on DPS banks.]] You speak the language of hate. The word "idiot" expresses a language of hatred. From this tribune, no one in the Atakas specifically called you idiots. You're the only one who can afford it. Mr. Chairman, when you use such words, please don't disgrace the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u172	Are you against Hristo Botev?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u173	Thank you, Mr. Professor. I'll do whatever it takes to make sure that doesn't happen. I'll take the necessary precautions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u174	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u175	Let's calm the spirit down a bit, finish the procedure with Mr. Shopov's backdrop.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u176	We're done with the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u177	Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, I address you in the manner of conduct, because our colleague Mrs. Krasteva is actually quoting Botev, and you gave the floor in the way of conducting Prof. Krasteva. Stanilov, who here frankly insults us to idiots, to xenophobes and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u179	I didn't use words like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u180	First of all, you didn't explain to him that it was a quote. Secondly, you allowed him to pour insults on the MPs. That's why it's the way it is. The tension, Mr. Chairman, you created it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u181	I don't accept your criticism. Everything was properly taken out by Prof. Stanilov, but that's my personal opinion. [[DPS lines.]] With regard to this, a quote in any direction can be found, the question is how it is used and how it is presented. I'm sorry, I had the same reproach that I didn't make a timely remark to the MPs from the DPS group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u182	Why didn't you make a remark?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u183	I wouldn't know what the MP would say next. I expect that anyone standing on this stand will comply with the rules and ethical rules that must be followed in this Chamber. Sorry, we're moving on. Mr. Shopov, since we interrupted the procedure and missed the moment, I ask you not to use this procedure. [[Replications from OP.]] Okay, here we go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u184	Dear colleagues, let's calm down. Dear Mr. Stanilov, I don't feel offended. Those were such compliments to me, made by a parishioner. [[DPS lines.]] It is very rare to use an evangelizer in the female family of Enicharka, but see, in later Ottoman times, the ethnic corps has very much changed its character, meaning and meaning, started selling their posts, marrying enicari, having children, inheriting and having enicharks as service staff. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u185	What's this now?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u186	In this regard, there is no room for insult at all for me here. I'm not answering the lines either, because some of them I listened to and made some of my logics. I will not respond to the lines of the DPS, because I have always been guided by the rule of Cocho the simple tycoon who says: "Accordance does not work between us and them. " This is a historical formula, we must not forget it. Things here, despite the years and the centuries, have not changed. It's about different civilizations, different civilization choices, patterns of thinking, and in the world. There is no doubt and there is no hesitation in this respect, but very often there is talk about Bulgarian nationalists and nationalism at all. Bulgarian nationalism is good. Bulgarian nationalism is the immune system of the Bulgarian people and nationalism and patriotism, as in all peoples. The point is, it's scary in a country, the foreign nationalism in it. In Bulgaria is a scary thing, something that has led us to this condition that we are in...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u187	Thank you, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u188	Turkish nationalism in Bulgaria, nationalism of the DPS party. That's what's scary. Do not be afraid of Bulgarian patriotism or nationalism. We, representatives of the Bulgarian parties, in one way or another, are patriots and nationalists in one way or another.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u189	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u190	And that's normal. Fighting Turkish nationalism in Bulgaria is our mission in life.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u191	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Come in the manner of conduct. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to tell you that it has become clear to all Members of the National Assembly that you have rudely violated the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. The procedure for speech, lines and possible duplicate ended with the inclusion, with the intervention of a professor, Stanilov in the manner of conduct. The very fact that you gave Mr. Shopov an opportunity for a duvet is a gross violation of the Rules and you are aware of it. It is not our fault that your colleagues from the United patriots put you in a delicate situation and an exceptional lawyer like yourself has allowed yourself to rudely violate the Rules, which is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u193	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. I have indeed formally violated the Rules of Procedure. It was about a desire to speak, which I did not dare to stop, inasmuch as Professor Stanilov is a respected MP. [[(Laughter at the DPS. Replies: There are no disrespected here.]] A high laugh will only make me stop for a while and continue my thought. The way he was heading for the stands, he didn't give me a chance to stop him. At the same time, the claimed duplicate was a fact. We will not combine and compare time. We are in parliament, we are not on a sports playground, and we are not in places where a formal sign is not given the opportunity to address a matter which he has put in his speech and is replicated in due course by other MPs. I accept criticism.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u194	Hristo Botev turns out to be an evangelizer, according to his words, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u195	Now I'm not getting in the back of my head. If you have a statement please come in. Any other speeches? Here you go. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration, which we tabled from the Parliamentary Group of..The Movement for Rights and Freedoms.. concerns thousands of Bulgarian citizens who in the early 1970s or in the late 1980s were subjected to huge repressions, persecutions by the then totalitarian regime during the so-called "renewal" process......................... by forceful change of names.........................................of these people who have been imprisoned in prisons, and another part of these people paid with the cost of their parents....................................................................................................................................... We in the parliamentary group of the European Parliament of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we do not want and work to ensure that no Bulgarian citizen is subjected to repression and to the pressure that these hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens who are concerned with the Bill have been subjected to. However, honourable Members, unfortunately, in European Bulgaria today, it is precisely those Bulgarian citizens who are concerned with the Bill who need to be reminded very often of that dark weather, during that period when their names were changed forcibly when they went to a municipality, or at some state office for some document. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are far from the idea that through the adoption of this Bill we will reduce the pain of these people and erase the bitter memory of history, but at least we will remove this administrative burden, this humiliation of these people every time to remind them of this period of our common history. Thanks, guys. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u197	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Is there a line to the statement of the MP Mr. Ali? Any other comments on the bill under consideration? Mr. Trifonov, I'm sorry. The next speech will be yours. There was a request before that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u198	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Chairman! I understand the desire of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms to correct a clear wrong solution, but the way in which this Bill is being proposed leads to another wrong solution. And, believe me, colleagues, two wrong decisions can't produce one right legal consequence. Why am I saying this? As for your wish for those citizens who have died, to have their names restored in administrative order, I can tell you that there is such a legal possibility at the moment in the Law on Civil Registration, namely art. 19a. It depends only on their successors. Many times you say that you have spoken to them and they have explained to you that there is some obstacle. On the contrary, there is no obstacle to the administrative, it is free, it is done by notarization of the signatures of the application. Another thing I would also like to say is that the proposed bill thus violates fundamental foundations of law in terms of the competence and capacity of those who lived in the period 1989. They had the legal opportunity to ask for their names to be restored. I cannot say why they have not taken this opportunity, but we are currently administratively imposing on them to be renamed again. I don't agree with this thing and replacing fundamentals in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u199	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines to the speech of the National Representative Bajchev? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Trifonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, I'm glad I finally made it to the stands. I'm fighting for this thing yet, trying to make Mr. Shopov a line. And because he expressed his surprise why our colleague has abstained, she is not in the Chamber, but I also voted in the Regional Commission, abstention, and there are two reasons. Because the bill that colleagues from DPS import can actually be divided into two parts. The BSP colleague who spoke before me, as if I would repeat some of his words. There are two parts in this bill. One part is that I, as a citizen of modern Europe, cannot agree to humiliate a Bulgarian citizen and to be asked for a certificate of names, provided that this thing is not required by the Law. When the state administration exceeds its powers and humiliates any Bulgarian citizen, I cannot help but be against it. However, on the other hand, I agree that the automatic return of the names of those Bulgarian citizens who had suffered a violent change of names before should not be accepted by the National Assembly, since we are not sure at the moment whether we will make the same mistake that was made years ago and forced someone's names to be changed. That is why I abstained from it at the time, and I think that this is the reasonable explanation from our colleague. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u201	Thank you. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I propose that we extend today's plenary session to the conclusion of the debate and vote on this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u203	I'll put to the vote the procedural proposal. Is there a reverse offer? We are voting for the procedural proposal of MP Hamid Hamid Hamid to extend the time until the adoption of a decision on the bill under consideration. Vote 151 MPs: 37 against 48, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. We continue to discuss the bill. Are there any MPs who would like to take part in it for a speech? Mr. Karadayi, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, Mr. Chairman, I will address you. Today, November 1, 2017 from this tribune in this hall in speech, the MP tried to define my homeland, the state and send me somewhere. Mr. Chairman, I'm just paying attention to you. I don't know if you heard it. Another gentleman, chairman, turned to specific MPs who had respected them. Does that mean that there are MPs who are not respected? And the investigation of respected Bulgarian citizens and disrespected Bulgarian citizens. But that's not my word. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I have no intention of telling you how to vote. Such legislative decisions relating to natural human rights, I think they do not need motivation. That's exactly what this bill is. He restores a natural situation and restores balance in the name of justice. I hear the questions: why are we returning the subject of the revival process? By the way, convicted by declarations of the National Assembly. And in the Thirty-Sixth National Assembly there was one MP, Paul Shopov. Check how he voted. [[Replications by MP Pavel Shopov.]] Yeah, you probably didn't. I want to give you a personal example. My father died during 1973. I was three years old. He died with his birth names. During the subsequent violent change of names and attempts to assimilate, no one asked him if he wanted to, or if he didn't want to change his name simply because he couldn't. But his names were changed, including the tombstones were stolen from the regime. Until 1990, no one asked us what his birth name was, but until today, when I had to get certain documents, I was asked the question: what was his state name?! Me, us constantly brings us back to those ugly times when we want to issue certain documents. As a counterargument, someone didn't want their name back. Let the one who doesn't want his name back make an application that doesn't want his name back! [[Applause from DPS.]] Those to whom the name has been changed forcefully, which is the mass case, to solve these cases once and for all legally. There is nothing more natural than today that we, importers of the Bill, expect justice to prevail, legality, constitutionality to prevail. Constitutionality in itself does not make any sense unless it guarantees the conditions for a decent human life of the human personality, which is the highest value of our Constitution! Much we can talk about the meaning of the human name, the birth given by parents at the moment of birth; what is our relationship with the universe; that sacred, inviolable, which makes us personalities in the way of life. People's proverbs and sensations of great personalities only reaffirm that. The person's name is a major component of his personality, it can be accepted even as part of his soul, and that's what Freud wrote in his essay Totem and taboo. The name of the person determines his destiny. The old Romans used to say, "Nomen est omens." The name is an omen. We have often heard: a man of one name lives. None of these sensations means what they're supposed to do, with a state-appointed name! In any case, it is precisely this natural right that is guaranteed by the Constitution. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I won't tell you how to vote. The only thing I'm asking you to do is to release your mind and hear your inner voice. I believe that anyone voting on a conscience will support the bill under consideration. I'm not gonna talk about it being a moral duty to any of us. I will not call on us to restore the disturbed natural balance for the damaged justice, because I believe that our inner voice will tell us the right decision. Let us be at the heights of those who, with the first steps of democracy in our country on behalf of all Bulgarian citizens, have declared their allegiance to the universal values of freedom, peace, humanism, equality, justice and tolerance, have promoted to a supreme principle...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u205	Please extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u206	...the rights of personality, her dignity and security. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u207	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. I took the liberty of extending the group's time to a certain sign from the MPs. Are there any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u208	It's an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u209	The time has been extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u210	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We listened to the speech of the President of the parliamentary group of the DPS. It was relatively moderate this time. Perhaps you have decided, Mr. Karadayi, to show a new style of speaking - without attacking, blaming the Bulgarian nationalists for the greatest evil, for the hatred of the language and so on. My line to you is this. The DPS constantly, and you, as its chairman, claim that you are about defending people's rights, that you should have the same attitude towards everyone. I would like to ask you, to replicate, to answer this question: if we, the United Patriarchs, submit a bill to return all Bulgarian names that have been forcefully changed during the time of Turkish slavery, to Ottoman rule, as you call it, will you support it? The logic is the same. That is, if you are fighting for justice, you must support such a thing. Apropo, such bills were imported by the patriotic parties to recognise genocide against the Bulgarian people committed during the time of Turkish slavery. You don't support them. If you are talking about human rights, if you are saying that your judgment is equal for all Bulgarian citizens and at all, you should not share these things. That's my line: would you support something like this because it's the same?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u211	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Karadaye, I'm going to give you a shot at the back. Second line to Mr. Karadayiy's statement, please come in, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u212	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I can't figure out exactly what the problem is with what we're talking about right now. I'll tell you why. Many of the MPs in this House were MPs in the last parliament. If you remember, at that time we adopted a Law which we, the Patriots, supported each of the relatives, from the Bulgarian Turks, if they wish to change the name of their deceased relative. Do you remember that? You remember him. But I cannot agree with this Bill, which is now proposed by the DPS in administrative order, I repeat, in administrative order to change the names of all the deceased Bulgarian Turks. That's just ridiculous. That's just ridiculous! We're digging up dead people's bones! Therefore, I tell you this: every relative of these Bulgarian Turks who wants to change the name of their deceased father, mother, brother and so on, these are sacred feelings, of course, the Law that we voted last parliament, and now can do so. But it's absurd in administrative order to change the names of hundreds of thousands of dead people! By the way, such practice has only the Mormons one American sect. I'll tell you something else. I am also annoyed by this hate language that you keep quoting here. A moment ago, your representative listed maybe ten epithets to us, the Patriots, what we are. All I can tell you is that I am the best man of a Turkish family. Listen carefully to him. I am the best man of a Turkish family and I am proud of this friendly relationship. She's related to me now. But what you are doing is really making a division in the Bulgarian society, understand it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u213	The weather, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u214	This is what you are doing at the moment - division in the Bulgarian society.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u215	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. A third line to the statement? Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u216	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Karadaye, you don't seem to understand what you're saying. You haven't understood us at all, colleagues. Nobody wants to change the names. To erase them by administrative means! It's so simple, so simple! My line to you, Mr. Karadayi, is with keen attention I will follow the vote of colleagues from GERB, especially Mr. Krasimir Velchev. Thank you. [[Replication by MP Julian Angelov. DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u217	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. I can be blamed that that was not a line to Mr. Karadayi's statement, but I could not know what the people's representative would say. I'm explaining what happens when we watch the meeting in real time. Mr. Karadaye, you're probably willing to use the right to the backrest. Welcome to the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is nothing to say to the first replicator in the procedure because there was no reply, Mr. Chairman and honourable Members. The second replicator, Mr. Atanasov, admitted that he didn't understand what he was talking about. I hope the majority of the MPs really understand what this is about. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-01.u219	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Are there any speeches? I'm in no hurry not to be blamed for not noticing. We're going to vote on the bill. I put to the vote Draft No 754-01-38, submitted by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. Vote 150 MPs: 23, against 61, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. Any other procedural suggestions? Revoting? I won't. That concludes today's session. We continue tomorrow, November 2, 2017 at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
