ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members of the National Assembly! There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] In accordance with art. 47 of our Rules, at the beginning of each parliamentary session the anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union are heard. [[Everyone's up. The anthem of the Republic of Bulgaria and the anthem of the European Union.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, this is the second session of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Let's wish for a successful and fruitful job! Dear colleagues, before the beginning of the first plenary session for the new session to congratulate our compatriots Muslims on the occasion of the sacred holiday for them! We wish them health, peace and prosperity in every home. [[Applause.]] May all of us, together, continue to be an example of tolerance, understanding and mutual respect, continue the joint efforts for the progress and prosperity of our country! Allow me to introduce you to the project I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm for the work of the National Assembly for 1 September 2017 Point one. Parliamentary control comprising: 1.1. Debate on asking No 754-05-27 of 28 June 2017 by the MPs Ilian Timchev, Georgi Yordanov and Valentina Naydenova to the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on the implementation of projects for modernisation and training in emergency aid and a comprehensive strategy for the development of emergency medical care. 1.2. Answers to questions and Please vote on the program. They voted 190 MPs: for 190, against and abstention there is no. The work programme has been accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, according to parliamentary tradition, each new session begins with statements from the parliamentary groups according to their numbers. The Conference of Presidents agreed to be held within ten minutes as well as to be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and on the Bulgarian National Radio. Please vote on the proposal for direct broadcasting. Vote 188 MPs: 186, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Before we begin with the statements of the parliamentary groups, we agreed at 11.00 that there should be a break for MPs who wish to participate in the public discussion, which will take place in the House of East, about the anti-corruption law, which will be presented by the Ministry of Justice and the Legal Commission. Mr. Tsvetanov has the floor of Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are starting a very important session, which will be extremely key in connection with our country's presidency. I appeal to you at the beginning of the new political season with the confidence that our country expects good legislation and immediate benefits from it to reach the individual. To this end, it is necessary for us to succeed in working together and not to forget that what has been done in the name of the people is the greatest political dividend, much greater than the self-target political opposition, condemning us to stagnation and making us unproductive. Good news marks the beginning of the new political season. In the first half of 2017, economic growth accelerated to 3.6 as a result of strong consumption and exports, while the number of employees is approaching the levels of full employment in Bulgaria. This gives us reason to expect higher than forecast results at the end of 2017. We hope that you have already had the opportunity to make sure that our management program is listed in a real, pragmatic spirit. There are no empty promises and abstract intentions in it. It includes priorities, strategic objectives and concrete measures to achieve them. With such an approach, the responsibility of management is clear. Among other things, the Programme also expresses our firm readiness to manage a 4-year full term. Even less doubt is the clarity of the legislative priorities of this Parliament... the topic on which the opposition speculates from the very beginning of its constitution. At the beginning of the new political season, we state our strong desire to participate in the implementation of policies for strengthening integration processes in Europe. A poll of public opinion since the end of July this year shows that 75% of Bulgarians approve of our country's membership in the European Union and 16% do not approve of it. Bulgaria's accession to Schengen and the Eurozone, as well as the dropping of the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism, remain our priorities. We will not tire of repeating our thesis that Bulgaria's accession to Schengen would lead to more secure external borders of Europe. We will strive to play an important role in the processes of deepening the political, economic, cultural relations between the countries of our region. The government's work has shown that we are on the right track, setting new standards of relations and communication with the Western Balkan countries. Our diplomatic moves were also supported by the European institutions and their leaders. The European assessment of our joint diplomatic efforts with Macedonia was markedly positive. The signed Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and Macedonia was called an inspiration for the entire region.The European Union High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Federica Mogherini and EU Commissioner for Neighborhood Policy and Negotiations for EU Enlargement Johannes Hahn. At the explicit request of Bulgaria, the Western Balkans were adopted to be a priority in the presidency of the European Union in the trio Estonia, Bulgaria, Austria. The focus of the attention will be the European perspective for the Western Balkans for infrastructure, digital and educational connectivity. It would be wise, however, not to make the Bulgarian Presidency an emancipation of domestic political life. Raggedy and political accounts must give way to work in the name of national significant causes now that we are at the heart of political attention. In order to gain the trust of European structures and European leaders, we need to show that we trust each other. I would like to make it clear that the Bulgarian voter will not forgive the government or opposition the possible waste of Bulgaria's chance to improve its image in Europe. There is a lot of expert work to be done so that our decisions can find a place in European legislation. And here the role of the Bulgarian Parliament can be particularly important, given that our National Assembly will host six events during the Bulgarian Presidency. Ten years after Bulgaria's accession to the European Union from the current Forty-fourth National Assembly is expected to support the realization of a pro-European, integration, rotating presidency. The key priorities set out in the draft programme will be considered in all the National Assembly committees. They're focused in three directions. First direction: Europe of consensus, security and migration, the future of the Western Balkans in the European Union, a sustainable integrated approach for the Danube and Black Sea region, effective and fast fair justice. The second heading of Europe of competitiveness, a competitive single market, the promotion of entrepreneurship and social innovation, economic and monetary union, a sustainable and future-oriented environment, a stable European energy union, the future of labour in a fairer Europe, a stable European policy. A Europe of cohesion is the third pillar of a multiannual financial framework since 2020, cohesion policy after 2020, the future of the common agricultural policy, culture as a strategic resource for a better future for the European Union. The official web portal of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union will start working on 1 December 2017 in four languages: Bulgarian, English, German and French. We hope that publicity and publicity during the Bulgarian Presidency will contribute to a better image of Bulgarian institutions not only in Europe, but also among Bulgarian citizens. We hope that our Presidency will run so that the Bulgarian citizens after it will be even more sympathetic to our country's European perspective and will feel more interested in the work of the European institutions. Parliament must maintain full working contacts with all state institutions during the current political season. GERB's parliamentary group will categorically counter all attempts at the work of state institutions to be bullied for political purposes by individual parties. Our opposition must understand that gaining sympathy does not pass through false news for the political opponent, but through the ability to assess good political ideas, as well as to offer working alternatives. The rhetoric of hatred does not give rise to political trust. Trust is earned in a fair race by offering different political ideas from which people can choose freely. GERB's parliamentary group will work in dialogue on national important topics both with its partners and with its opponents. The parliamentary group of GERB begins this parliamentary season with clear legislative priorities, taking into account the needs of the cabinet for legal amendments and new laws. The most massive are public expectations for good anti-corruption legislation and for working anti-corruption regulation. That is why we must adopt the new anti-corruption law by the end of the year. This is going to be a very important sign to society. From now on, however, we are aware that the control of its implementation is becoming an increasing challenge for the legislator. The new anti-corruption law will bring together existing fragmented legal acts and will follow the creation of a single anti-corruption body based on the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. This will improve the interaction between institutions and the fight against corruption. We will be walking in a firm way towards fairer, faster and more effective justice. Various elements of the legal system will be improved. The recommendations made in the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism Report will be implemented. Criminal policy should be updated by adopting a new Criminal Code. At the end of 2018, there must be a fact and a working e-government. Strengthening public order and security will be among our legislative priorities. We will look for lasting and good solutions to prevent and return illegally staying foreigners to our country. After a broad discussion, we hope to adopt a modern and working migration law that meets public expectations. We're not going to close our eyes to the criminogenic environment in the country. It will come directly to people's problems by building police stations to serve citizens locally. The private security law will provide opportunities for this activity to be useful in ensuring public policy and security. The concession law will enable us, in dialogue between the state, business and employers' organisations, to adopt good sustainable legislation meeting European standards. Our legislative initiatives in the field of education will strengthen the relationship between education and the labour market. Raising teachers' salaries will not remain a single management act. We will not back down from policies to eradicate illiteracy and to impose compulsory education. We will support the upbringing in a spirit of patriotism and the educational programs will guarantee the knowledge of Bulgarian history and the achievements of Bulgarian culture. The quality of education will increase when it is practically oriented and when teachers are prepared, financially secured and publicly supported. There will be work to prevent aggression and increase the security of students. There will be a reform of the system of evaluation and accreditation of higher schools. In the field of health, we will expand the role of prevention as a road to better health and quality of life. Therefore, the capacity of outpatient medical care will be increased and a new and affordable model of healthcare will be introduced. We will continue the process of building a single national health information system. We are working on a project for the child to guarantee the rights of all Bulgarian children, and we will not ignore the needs for serious support of children at risk. In the implementation of the Government's Management Programme, the finalization of the Draft Law on Deviation from Criminal Procedure and the imposition of educational measures on minors is forthcoming. With a new Law on the Integration of Disabled People, we hope to synchronise our policies in the context of the Convention on their Rights. We must establish a legal basis for limiting negative demographic trends. A new legal regulation is needed to stimulate the birth rate and reduce youth emigration, to maintain a balanced immigration policy, tailored to the needs of the Bulgarian business. We will strive to ensure equal access for representatives of different social groups to a quality social service by continuing the process of deinstitutionalization. Our responsibility to future generations will be to work to increase the national self-esteem of the Bulgarians. And because the topic of returning young and talented Bulgarians from developed countries remains very sensitive, I would like to mention that young people will feel welcome back to Bulgaria when our country shows that it respects them, that it values their successes and that it is ready to offer them a decent life. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I wish we didn't forget our legacy message. If we want to send a message to the European Union for a Europe of consensus, we must have reached the necessary consensus within the country. To wish for a controversial and fruitful parliamentary season and, of course, one of the biggest challenges facing all of us and all the committees will be the adoption of a serious, stable, real budget for 2018, which will help implement all these sectoral policies. Thank you all and wish for a successful parliamentary season!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. The Chairman of the group Mrs. Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We begin the second session of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I wish it to be beneficial to both Parliament and our people! I congratulate Muslims in Bulgaria with the holiday. Be healthy! This session begins on the threshold of two important events: the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the adoption of the budget for 2018. The first gives us the opportunity to show that Bulgaria has a worthy place in the European Union, but also to have the opportunity to put our national interest in the context of the talks about the future of Europe as we want it to be. For the policies in this Presidency you have our support because this is the interest of Bulgaria. By the end of the year, we will present to you and our vision of important issues which should enter into bilateral and multilateral talks next year during the Presidency. As far as domestic policy is concerned, there are many unresolved problems. And from what I'm about to say, let's not let anyone get hurt or offended. None of these problems we will miss, but we want to focus on a few important things that we believe contain more problems today. We are setting a strategic goal: reducing poverty and increasing income. For many years, various governments and political forces have been making reforms to improve living standards. However, the facts show that these problems remain unresolved, because today we now have poor workers one in every ten. We have poor pensioners, poor young families. Nearly two million Bulgarians live on the threshold of poverty, that is, the problem stands. For us, this is a strategic objective that we want and are thinking of achieving with three funds, with three key policies. The first education and science. The second is economics and production, and the third is fighting against the parallel state and corruption. Education. Fellow Members of the majority, and you place this topic as your priority, and we, of course. And again in the years many reforms, and again a heavy result.. 39% illiterate. We need to follow things in a tendency not to throw each other's accusations at each other. Two thousand and thirteen years, 12.3% of children are leaving; 2014. "12.5%; 2016 is now 13.4%. This shows a process, this shows a trend and a failure to deal with the problem. You want Mr. Tsvetanov, consensus and agreement in this Parliament, but this must go through naming the real problems and searching for their solution. The law on pre-school and school education that you have adopted, colleagues, has been passed without analysis of the expected results and you know very well what problems there are today. Now regulations are adopted, state standards, orders. And in the summer the teachers had to get acquainted and evaluate in a month a total of 256 new textbooks. And the fact that black and white textbooks for poor children and colorful for rich is cynicism. [[Noise and lines.]] This is severe discrimination, deepening inequalities, and you are already doing so through children. There is no way you can meet our support for such a policy. With the merger of two-year study plans in one school year, 1257 schools are at risk of losing their students, closing down and no one knows where these children will go! One hundred and twenty thousand children have been damaged by the merger of two years into one. Your refusal to accept the offer of minimum wage thresholds for scientists has led to the fact that a professor receives as much as a beginner teacher. Respectfully to everyone, but that's not wise! Due to incompetent management decisions and problems in public procurement, the Ministry of Education is about to fail the Operational Program "Science" because four years after its launch were paid under 5% and only 25 were agreed. Urgently, really urgent, with a lot of reason, mutual conversations and consents, we must take action in education. And not forceful. What you're doing looking for the kids and forcing them to go to school is probably a PR action?! And what Deputy Prime Minister Simeonov has reached is that the state will take children away from parents and raise them is absurd! That's not the way! The problem of dropping out students is indicated in many studies, and it is in two dimensions: poverty and inefficiency of the educational system. That is why we will offer our alternative and it is: amendments to the Law on School and Pre-school Education, introduction of minimum levels of pay in the sector "Science" and for scientific degree, one textbook in one class for the whole country, and it as a state commitment issued by the Ministry of Education. I hope that black and white and colored textbooks make an argument in this direction. National map for the necessary personnel of the economy, planning the number of classes mostly in vocational schools, because it is absurd for the school system and higher education to spew unemployed and the economy to hire people outside. Our big problem is the difference in the educational system and the needs of the Bulgarian economy. This requires planning and a state view for years to come, what economy we will develop and what personnel we will provide for it. The second means of combating poverty are precisely: economy and production. The small business and the middle business is on its knees. The big ones receive all public procurement and the small ones are subjected to administrative and political racketeering. We will support your every effort for administrative reform, but we will strongly oppose any pressure and blackmail of small, medium and micro businesses. We need to understand that in 2020 European money is running out, and although very late again urgently, we need to take measures for domestic production and home economy very urgently. I hope that this time you will support the Food Act, which is located on your banks, submitted by the BSP for Bulgaria. To protect domestic production, even more against the backdrop of the strong evidence already for double standards in food quality in Western and Eastern Europe. You also have our Law on State and Municipal Enterprises, which aims to stabilize state and municipal property and to enable investment and development of this property. By the way, in the election campaign, when we talked about this to you, you treated it ironically and with a remark that we almost returned the old regime to the state, to the planned economy. I am glad that today you have grown to the idea of creating new state enterprises yourself. It seems that this is an evolution in political thinking on the right, so I hope you will also support the Public Enterprises Act, which protects state and municipal property. One of the needs of the business in order to be able to develop it as small and medium-sized Bulgarian and born is to receive adequate funding. We will offer by the end of the year your attention a new Law on the Bank for Development. Enough with the distortion in this part of the banking sector. The Development Bank finances six major businessmen in Bulgaria, and not small and medium-sized businesses. It is high time for this to change and in this Law we will offer you to reduce the limits of the loans that are granted, to break down into small ones and go to small and medium businesses. The third means of overcoming poverty and increasing incomes is the fight against the parallel country, which steals 10 billion annually. lv. Ten billion. lv. They run into someone's pockets and don't go for pensions, health, social systems, education! That's why we have an emphasis on anti-corruption legislation. We have our proposal, it is discussed with the professional communities, their professional remarks are accepted, we do not claim perfection. Today we will present it to the President of the Republic, then to the European ambassadors and the two commissioners of the rule of law and justice. If we do not stop, but truly, not with imitation, corruption, we will not cope with the recovery of the economy, nor with the increase in incomes, nor with the reduction of poverty. We have a choice of the SJC. We've offered six perfect candidates in our opinion. Both professionally and morally, without a quota principle and without agreement, we hope that this choice will choose the best and those who will carry out the judicial reform as we wish it to a swift and objective trial and to fair sentences. All our policies will be proposed in an alternative budget for 2018, led by the concern of three things: illiteracy, poverty and poor health status of the nation. We see these three problems as an element of national security. Let us, as statesmen, not as one-sided politicians, see that these are problems not only of the present, not only of the current today... this is a huge problem for the future of our nation, because an illiterate, poor and ill nation does not have one. That is why we will draw up an alternative budget in which we will propose serious, reasoned measures to address these three problems - the illiteracy, poverty and the health status of the population. During the first season of this Parliament, we have shown that we are a clear and reasoned opposition. This second season, I'd call the alternative season. The BSP for Bulgaria will outline different opportunities for the development of Bulgaria. Let the Bulgarian citizens judge what is better than what the government offers or what the BSP offers for Bulgaria and make their choice. Good luck, and good luck to Parliament! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the United patriots, the President of the group, the national representative Volen Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! A few years ago, no one could believe that patriotic, nationalist parties would be in power. That was absurd for political scientists. And just a few months ago, we were reading predictions and analyses, showing an apocalyptic picture that if the United Patriarchs were in power, we would ruin our image in front of the world. It was made clear that this was not the case. Only three months, and an incomplete three months, were enough to see that the group of the United Patriarchs, consisting of three parties: "Ataka", NFSB and VMRO, are correct, loyal and responsible political partners. Reality proved it and disproved those who scared people that something scary would happen. No scary thing happened, on the contrary, during these three months of the management of the coalition "United Patriarchs" and GERB happened good things for Bulgaria. Maybe not very big, but enough to feel, feel and see from people, to realize that the state can be responsible. I take this opportunity to thank the leadership of the GERB party for the correctness and sensitivity to which all our proposals are addressed, because without this partnership we cannot move forward. I also take this opportunity to thank the opposition, which, at particularly important and responsible moments, was wise, was responsible and did not in spite of opposition just because it was political sport. This means that Bulgarian society and the political class are wiser perhaps after nearly thirty years of transition. In fact, at the beginning of the transition, as the Bible says, was the word, and I remember that at the beginning of the transition the pathetic statements prevailed, the word was leading, and everyone competed to say something more, with more pathos. Now that we have gone through all the disappointments of the transition, it seems that the time has come for constructive and active thinking and actions in politics, that is, to do things that have real results. During these incomplete three months, we were the ones who insisted on completing the partition facility that stopped illegal immigrants from disturbing law enforcement. I remember here, in this room, a few years ago, when we proposed to build such a facility, we were met with a misunderstanding, even with elements of irony and ridicule. Now it turned out that this facility is very important that it required the inflow of illegal immigrants.. a vice for Europe, not only for Bulgaria. We, as a border country of Europe, have shown that we can make a fence that stops, which is a real barrier to the stream of illegal immigrants, and thus we reassured the Bulgarian society, which was very worried that people with vague intentions, unidentified and very often the causes of crime come here. This I note as a good success of the general management of GERB and "United Patriarchs", but I stress that the pressure on the part of the patriots was consistent to the end. Now this enclosure is built, there is no way to pass illegal immigrants in any way. During these three months, we have also fulfilled this promise, which we were most widely announced during the election campaign, which is about minimum pensions. Yeah, there were attacks that they weren't the size we wanted. But the Bulgarian voter also voted so that we proportionately have the opportunity and raised these pensions as much as possible at the moment. Politics is an art of opportunity. We are increasingly convinced of this because I, as a politician, have gone through different stages. I've been to the opposition bank, I've been supporting government, now our coalition is really in the executive power. For the first time in 30 years of transition patriotic and nationalist parties are in the executive power and they prove that they are responsible politicians. I am sure that with our European Presidency this will become clear to the whole of Europe that the patriots in Bulgaria are not irresponsible people who seek conflict or who seek scandals, but are people who can work for the good of their country and can pressure Bulgaria to make more sovereign decisions because we need it. Yes, the Euro-Atlantic partnership is something that is highlighted in every speech, but I think that Bulgaria needs more flexibility, more autonomy, so that it is the economy that is being talked about today, which is really important something, to develop so that we have more and more achievements. We see it now, but it's not bad to start admitting what's happening, which is positive. A number of moves have been made in this area, the economy has dropped administrative burdens for companies, which has greatly alleviated small, medium and larger businesses. What happened a little while ago about the Development Bank, which should support the Bulgarian business in all its forms, I am sure and will personally lobby and advocate for this Bank to work for the Bulgarian business. In the Ministry of Economy, where it is already, they will have a different attitude to the way they are financed, credit the Bulgarian businesses, stress the Bulgarians, and all of them, on any scale. This will be implemented and I am sure that the opposition will be reassured because it will literally see it every month. What happened in the Military Industrial Complex is also about marking as something positive. Enterprises are getting better, people who were threatened by unemployment are provided with jobs and these companies with State aid are getting bigger and bigger orders and Bulgaria already has exports, from which there is even financial surplus. These are all steps we need to mark. The other thing that I can point out as our merit to the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" are legislative measures, which we will offer -- I hope for the solidarity of the other parliamentary groups -- and which affect religion, the social system in which there are very large vices accumulated over the years -- that is, State aid for people who do not deserve it. All this should be done carefully without causing social upheavals without causing conflicts and turmoil, but it should be done. And right here we're the guarantors that this could be happening. For the time of our short government, I will give an example: the district governor of Sofia-district, broadcast by the United Patriarchs, did something that was not done for 27 years. He returned properties to the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in Eleshnitsa, which 4 - 5 consecutive district governments had not done. Someone will say: Is this the most important question?! No, it's probably not, but it shows how things can be done when you have willpower when you have determination. This is where I see the role, the function of the United Patriarchs, to show that some things that can be done for people, that what has not been completed for decades or has been delayed, or that has been stalled in some way, can be done. I am convinced that we will continue to go in this direction with our partnership with GERB, with the constructive opposition, which I hope will be in the next political season, to show that we can do good things for Bulgaria. I'm sure of it. I wish you health and salvation! God save Bulgaria!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the Chairman of the group, Mustafa Karadayi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Let me begin by congratulating all Muslims on the Kurban Bayram case and wish them a happy holiday! May this feast make us more humane, more virtuous and wiser! Let us bring health and prosperity to all, peace and prosperity to all mankind! In addition, I congratulate everyone with the opening of the autumn session of the Forty-fourth National Assembly and wish for fruitful work! This is also an occasion for a brief overview of the political events and the prospects for development. At the end of Parliament's summer session, we reported a lack of a management programme, and shortly afterwards we obtained one called the government management programme. What does this program essentially represent? A lack of a clear vision of future development, a set of rather desirable declarations and measures that not only do not guarantee the achievement of good goals but reveal the inability of the government to achieve economic growth, social responsibility and European quality of life. This Programme is another proof of chaos in government, a prerequisite for which is the wrong formula for a majority. This so-called government-management agency and the actions of the various ministers are clear evidence of this. Instead of managing the country through working institutions and administration, we witness activities typical of a club of self-activity. This is evidence of refusing to comply with the rules and bearing responsibility, proof of lack of normality in politics and in government, frank mockery with the entire nation, with Europe even. That's no way to run a country. Leave the theater to the theaters! With the adoption of the Programme, the government sets the following priorities: sustainable increase in incomes, increasing the growth of the Bulgarian economy, guaranteeing the country's energy security, limiting negative demographic trends, eradication of illiteracy, improving the health of the nation, minimizing the risks and neutralizing the dangers to national security, ensuring effective, fast and fair judiciary. But there are really no scheduled measures. Enumeration of the problems in front of the country cannot be a priority. The priorities are one, two or three priority objectives. It's like understanding the rule of law as a street justice. The enforcement of the law increasingly means self-harassment, fighting, beating, kidnapping. Is this our idea of stability and security in European Bulgaria?! To illustrate the above thesis. Objective 231 of Priority 63 provides for open governance as a political commitment to provide citizens and their organisations with opportunities to participate in the management and awareness of the activities of state authorities. Yeah, as much as the public knows how much the fence costs along the border with Turkey, how much and how far do border guards travel to fill someone's hotels, for the sewers, how much does the NDK's renovation cost, how much are the buildings sanitized, and how much does it cost us? Shortly after the Programme says that the government will not raise taxes, it is noted, I quote: "If we want the state to give more money to businesses and citizens, it should collect more taxes than businesses and citizens. Those pointed out by some analysts as successful foreign policy events remain with open questions regarding the real results for Bulgaria in defence of the national interest. In this regard, the people's wisdom is also appropriate. If you have a kilo of flour, give it to a master. Apparently, Borisov's third edition is more unsuccessful than the previous two emissions. This thing, called the Management Programme, which has nothing to do with its name, presents rather the list of good intentions of the ministers. There is neither inter-agency coordination nor leading ideas at its core. In itself, this document can be referred to as anything, but not as a "country management'. The lack of coordination and clear strategy is a major feature of the 100 days. This creates chaos in management decisions, actions on the principle of trial-mistake, again a trial-mistake, and so on. This chaos creates the sense of timelessness, of the collapse of the country. This aims to preserve the coalition in the name of power without benefits for Bulgaria and for Bulgarian citizens. The growing media scandals surrounding the government created the idea that the outcome of the toupee of power is in the creation of new, inverse, media scandals. The aim is to divert public attention from the real problems of power and state and to replace them with scandals on quasi-problems or those with a past limitation. The problems presented as problems with the National Palace of Culture, the scandals with edible names and others such as Caliakra and so on, as well as the incompetence to solve them, the infirmity for the realization of the Bulgarian Presidency with pro-active policy. This process of inevitably combining a series of internal corruption scandals with the ruling party, with past ones in the opposition, is likely to rely on the average voter's memory not to have such a duration that he remembers events with a five-year and greater limitation. It is time to remind that the model "guilty" are those before us. There is no longer room, given the participation of GERB in the country's governance for eight years now, unless it is seen in the context of convenient fuses, of course. Today it is becoming increasingly clear that the problems of the government are multiplying and the solutions are moving away. Even with the media environment under control, the coalition is increasingly losing its position. Attempts to raise the cabinet's ratings seem comically funny. On the threshold of the Presidency Bulgaria has no right to move away from European models, from European values. Without having to go back, it is enough to recall Angela Merkel's position from an election rally a few days ago. She made clear the position of her party in the EPP's family, no coalition with extreme right and extreme left formations. And this is a rule for Europe because a coalition with extreme means more populism, more extremism and less democracy, less Europe. The failure to accept the European model forges timelessness with severe consequences for Bulgaria. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We must raise normality in a paradigm of statehood, and an hour rather we must categorically deny any behavior that erotics statehood. We must create conditions for authorities and institutions to work normally under the rules, produce a new type of large-scale thinking and implement such investment policies in the context of the current European and global realities to ensure economic growth and European quality of life, employment and new jobs, education, social justice, stability and security of citizens. We are obliged to prove that we are worthy of a place at the heart of European policy, that we can be a real factor in solving the future of the region, Europe and the world, that we are capable of a consistent and constructive policy with clear rules and European thinking, with a clear plan for the economic and political development of the Union in the coming years, for a more effective single and developing European Union, with high European objectives in the event of a guaranteed national interest. It's time for decisive action. The Presidency requires a new vision and new management formulas on the principle of basic consensus. It is the only way we can take advantage of the historic chance to take a proper place in the European family. Otherwise, there will simply be a formal Presidency. The responsibility to future generations will be borne by the ruling generations, but this cannot be a consolation to us as a nationally responsible party, as well as to all who could, but have not reacted. Returning normality to the country is an absolute condition for success. This session has a serious legislative agenda. There are important legislative solutions ahead, such as the fight against corruption, judicial reform, budget, taxes. The final stage of the preparation of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union is coming. The successful solution of the important issues for Bulgaria requires the country's management to step on a common property base with Euro-Atlantic orientation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the political party Volja. The people representative Plamen Hristov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u10	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I address you, I would like to congratulate the Bulgarian Muslims with the Kurban Bayram holiday and wish everyone well! My fellow Members, I hope that we have all used this past month not only for rest, but also to think about the expectations of the people of the new parliamentary session, so that the mistakes of the previous one are not repeated. We have a lot of work to do, because you all know that wherever we get caught in this country, problems have been going on for years. During the last session in this room, we listened to criticism between left and right who has done what damage to the country in its rule. It is clear that you know your sins and do not forget to remind yourselves, but if we are to start now, I think that Parliament will remain the institution with the lowest rating, and that is us from the Volja. No one wants to listen to empty parliamentary speaking and promises in the uncertain future. The only party here that has never been in the government, so our view of the problems is independent and objective and it is good to listen to us a little more often. A few weeks ago, another Eurostat stats came out, which is eloquently talking about where we are. Sixty percent of Bulgarian citizens cannot afford vacations outside the home. What does that mean, fellow Members? People have no money to meet their daily needs, for years they have survived, misery has permanently settled in the homes of many of the families, this has also led to despair in society. And this autumn, many people from the country will head to the capital in search of work because they are not thinking about the development of the regions. This is the kind of question that should be in Parliament's focus. "Volja" is addressing all of you with the call to suppress your party ego, to work as a priority for a high standard of living for people, to support small and medium-sized businesses, for more investments, especially in the country's backward regions. A lot of time has been wasted precisely because of the endless party struggles, ladies and gentlemen. People ask themselves the question: "What is so lacking in management that for years things don't change, but on the contrary, we are getting deeper and deeper? " We are not a big country and with an effective management approach many of the problems can be solved in just a few months. I will tell you what lacks willpower and very often competence, as well as empathy for people's pain. However, what has it abundantly, unfortunately, is corruption and lobbying schemes. Until we eradicate this evil, no changes are possible. Is it powerless for the government to handle it? Isn't a government machine capable of reducing domestic crime in a short time?! Is the state powerless, for example, in front of the cheaters who rob elderly people? Are the years of kidnappings for ransom coming back and beating people up with a bat on the street? I can still list, obviously, however, the addictions are so much that they interfere with actions in the interests of people. We from Volja urged this session to be devoted to two main things. elevating people's standards and reducing corruption. We will remain irreconcilable to all attempts to pass lobbyist or harmful laws to the people. With particular attention, we will be monitoring measures to support small and medium-sized businesses that are struggling, smothered by corruption and bureaucracy. We will also be particularly active with regard to Budget 2018, we will expect to see strategic thinking and effective policies expressed through it. We realize that the upcoming European Presidency is an important period for Bulgaria, but it cannot be a front behind which there is weak will and a lack of ideas for improving people's lives. If we do not unite and do not comply with the moods in society, if the sluggishness of the first session is transferred to this session, then we of "Volja" will not be embarrassed to insist on changes in governance. We hope that everyone has learned from the past session, and from now on we will see a different style of conduct and work in plenary. I wish health and good luck to you all! Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. The parliamentary groups' statements regarding the new political season have thus ended. Before we move on to actual parliamentary control messages. Laws and draft decisions for the period 26 July 2017. 31 August 2017 On 26 July 2017, the Old People's Law was adopted. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy as the lead, as well as to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Interactions with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints. On the same date there was a Bill for amendment and supplement for civil registration with importers, the national representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to: the lead is the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, as well as the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad. On the same date a draft decision for a change in the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism with importers of the National Representatives Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Snezhana Dukova and Daniela Saveklieva was received. On 26 July 2017 a draft decision for a change in the composition of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports with importers from the National Assembly Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Snezhana Dukova and Daniela Saveklieva was received. On 27 July 2017, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship was adopted. They are: the People's Representative Andon Donchev and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs, as well as to the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. On the same date, a draft decision was received to complete the composition of the Committee on Agriculture and Food with the importer, the national representative Snezana Dukova. On the same date, we have a Report on the Commission's activities for public oversight of registered auditors in 2016. The Reporter is the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors. It was allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance on 28 July 2017. Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure with importer People's Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, as well as to the Committees on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, Legal Affairs, Energy, European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 28 July 2017, a draft decision on a question No 754-05-27 was received by the National Representative Ilian Timchev, Georgi Yordanov and Valentina Naydenova to the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on the implementation of projects for modernisation and training in emergency aid and a comprehensive strategy for the development of emergency medical care. Importer is the national representative Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs. On 1 August 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers, allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, as well as the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Committee on Energy. On 2 August 2017, a private security bill was introduced. Importer is the Council of Ministers, allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. On 9 August 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping with an importer of the Council of Ministers was adopted. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is leading as well as the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. On 9 August 2017, an Annual Report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 and an Annual Report on the activities of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. The importer is the Supreme Judicial Council, assigned to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 17 August 2017, a Draft Law for the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of National Defence of Canada, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Department of Defence of the United States of America, the Office of the Supreme High Command of the United States of NATO forces in Europe on the establishment, activity, composition, financing, administration and maintenance of the Stab of the Multinational Division of South East. Importer is the Council of Ministers, allocated to the leading Committee on Defence, as well as to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Foreign Policy. On 22 August 2017, the Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, as well as to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 28 August 2017, a Law on measures against money laundering was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, as well as to the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 29 August 2017, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to a leading Committee on Legal Affairs, as well as to the Committee on the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics. On the same date was received Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management, the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sport. On 29 August 2017, a Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction was received to the Minister of Economy for 2016. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. On 31 August 2017, we have received a report on the state of defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. The importer is the Council of Ministers and is assigned to the Defence Committee. On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 7 August 2017, Decree No 175 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was received under art. 101 of the Constitution by which the Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act adopted by the National Assembly on 27 July 2017 is returned for a new discussion. It is entrusted to the leading Committee on Environment and Water to report to the MPs the President's statement and the reasons for it. On 31 July 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 31 July 2017 to 31 July 2017 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 31 July 2017 to 31 July 2017. 2 of the National Assembly's decision of 9 June 2017, adopted in connection with the debates on questions by the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev and Manol Genov, No 754-05-13 of 17 May 2017, received information from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on the current state of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings, the spent funds and the value of the contracts concluded by 15 July 2017. The information is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. On 4 August 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 August 2017 to 25 August 2017 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 August 2017 to 25 August 2017 (OJ L 55, 19.2.2017, p. 1). No 702-00-33 was received by the National Assembly a Report on the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process in the European Union during the Maltese Presidency of the Council of the European Union from January to June 2017, adopted by Decision No 428 of the Council of Ministers of 2017, for information. The materials are provided to the MPs of their e-mail. The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 June 2017. "24 July 2017 and Protocol No 32 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 25 August 2017, the National Assembly received a printed edition of a non-classified Report on the activities of the State Agency "National Security" for 2016. The report was prepared in accordance with the provisions of the National Security Protection System Management Act and was published on the Agency's website on the Internet. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces was adopted by Decision No 413 of the Council of Ministers of 28 July 2017, which allowed for the period from 30 July to 10 August 2017 the passage through and the residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with a non-military nature of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces in connection with the conduct of a joint Bulgarian-American training in the area of the training polygon Novo selo. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces was adopted by Decision No 490 of the Council of Ministers of 28 August 2017, authorising for the period from 4 to 15 September 2017 the passage through and the residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature of aircraft and personnel with equipment and equipment from the air force of the State of Israel in connection with the conduct of a joint Bulgarian-Israeli flight training. The notifications have been made to the National Assembly with an inch. No 702-00-31 and n.e.c. No 702-00-36 and made available to the Defence Commission. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria: First, in the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the territorial sea, the stay in the inland waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the visit of the port of Varna to a ship of the composition of the Italian Republic's naval forces in the period from 8 to 11 September 2017 including. The ship's visit is informal, peaceful and is not related to military operations and preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to activities to prevent military activities conducted by other Second, in the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its own orders it has authorised the dispatch and use of one helicopter with two crew of military personnel from the Military Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria with equipment and equipment for participation in a multinational exercise in Georgia for the period from 1 to 13 September 2017 including; the dispatch of a military ship with military equipment and crew from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria outside the territory of the country for the period from 22 November to 5 December 2017 including the participation in the training of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Turkey with international participation. Thirdly, the National Assembly informs that during the period from 18 to 21 September 2017 in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria there will be training of forces and means of anti-aircraft defence to work in conditions of radio-electronic interference, in which soldiers from the NATO Centre for Radio Electronic War and Vehicle Equipment will participate. The training is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to carrying out activities to prevent military activities conducted by other States or organizations, armed forces. Fourth, informs the National Assembly that for the period from 25 August 2017 to 21 September 2017 including in the area of the joint Bulgarian-American facility, a new village will be held a joint Bulgarian-American training. The preparation is carried out in the implementation of the Plan for joint Bulgarian-American training and training in the country and abroad in 2017 and is not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military actions conducted by other States or organizations, armed forces. The notifications have been made to the National Assembly with an inch. No 703-09-27; 703-09-28, 703-09-29, 703-09-30, 703-09-31 and 703-09-32 and granted to the Defence Commission. Last message: On 31 August 2017, the Commission informed the European Parliament and the Council of its decision to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. No 756-24-2 from the Chairman of the Fiscal Council of the National Assembly received a statement from the Fiscal Council on a Report on the implementation of the budget of the DVO for 2016, published on the Council's website on the Internet. By letter the President of the National Assembly sent the opinion of the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, and the same is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. No new requests were received between 28 July 2017 and 31 August 2017. Written answers: By the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; By the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov to a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Dragomir Stoinev; By the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; By the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on a question from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova; The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov asked the MPs Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov; By the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov; The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski asked the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Valentina Naydenova; "From Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev; By the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; By the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to a question from the MPs Filip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; "From the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to a question from the MPs Filip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; By the Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Nona Yotova; By the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Elhan Kulkov; The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov asked two questions from the National Representative Imren Mehmedova; By the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to a question from the MPs Ivelina Vassileva, Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva; "From the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to a question from the MPs Alexander Nenkov, Evgenia Alexieva and Valentin Nikolov; By the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov. "From the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; "By the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to a question from the MPs Ivan Dimov Ivanov and Pencho Milkov; The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov asked a question from the National Representative Nikolai Ivanov; By the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the MPs Nina Mitkova and Boryana Georgieva. We are moving on to the debates on the questioning of the MPs Ilian Timchev, Georgi Yordanov and Valentina Naydenova to the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on the implementation of projects for modernization and training in emergency aid and a comprehensive strategy for the development of emergency medical care. In connection with the debates on the asking of the MPs Ilian Timchev, Georgi Yordanov and Valentina Naydenova to the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on the implementation of projects for modernization and training of Emergency Aid and a comprehensive strategy for the development of emergency medical assistance of the asking by the MPs Ilian Timchev, Georgi Yordanov and Valentina Naydenova At the same meeting, 62 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with the Project for a solution. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting, namely today. The proposal for debate on the inquiry and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 28 July 2017, Friday. A draft decision to be voted on by 62 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria was introduced. No 754-00-90, as of 28 July 2017. It was registered in the National Assembly's Office at 12.24 p.m. The distribution of time in relation to the application of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is as follows: the parliamentary group of GERB has 19 minutes; the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. 8 minutes; Movement for Rights and Freedoms by 7 minutes; Parliamentary group of "Volja" by 5 minutes, and non-members of parliamentary groups by 5 minutes. You have the floor to present your Project for a solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u12	Please, you have ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u13	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Four months have passed since this government's rule, and emergency medicine has never found a place on parliament's agenda. At the same time, there is hardly anyone in the room who will not agree that the issue of emergency assistance is extremely important. The problems of emergency medicine have found more response in society and in the media, but not among the government and therefore it is our responsibility to draw attention to them. The debate must affect, on the one hand, the current issues related to emergency aid, such as delayed European projects and, on the other hand, the long-term perspective of emergency assistance in Bulgaria. Today we will talk about both things because, although different, they are interconnected. First of all, we need to focus on the two projects for renovation and modernisation of emergency assistance under the Operational Programme "Regions in growth" and on the training of the medics in emergency assistance "Pulse 2" and under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development." The modernisation project is worth about 160 million. lv. The system workers relied that the project could improve in places the crying conditions in which they worked. On the other hand, it was also the hope that residents of remote and hard-to-reach areas would finally have equal access to emergency aid by building new centres. To date it was supposed to be ready, but in reality the project proposal has been postponed for the end of the year and there is a danger that it will not happen at all. The project is threatened by failure because of a series of wrong decisions and untimely actions of the government. Firstly, the lack of an active medical standard was referred to as the reason for the delay, and then it was announced that the project was delayed due to an unprepared analysis by the National Centre for Public Health Protection and Analysis. The director of this center was fired and then the string of events got lost. In fact, no answers are given to the important questions: where are we with the work on the project? Can the Minister guarantee that the modernisation project will start this December? Is there any chance we could lose the money on the project and, if that happens, who will take responsibility for it? In summary: a series of serious mistakes, a dismissal and no clarity about the future of the project or what is currently being done on the subject. The second European project is the so-called "Puls 2" which envisions the absorption of 7 million. lv. grants for the training of emergency medical personnel and the establishment of the National Emergency Medicine Training Centre. Although it started in February this year, the project is at a complete standstill and practically none of its objectives have been achieved. What has the Ministry done in the last four months? Is there an action plan at all unknown, and how can we prevent the loss of this European funding? And one more thing during the campaign the two projects for modernization and training were presented by GERB as a panacea for the problems in emergency medicine. However, now that it is in your hands to implement these projects, we hear nothing from you about them. That's why we're gonna ask until we get some answers and take action. And, as we thought, more frightening than delayed European projects, there was no other problem with the maintenance of the emergency assistance information and communication system. It's about the software system that locates and records calls to emergency centers, as well as GPS tracking ambulances. The contract with the company providing these services expired last month and it informed the Ministry that it would stop its maintenance. This has come to this because of a fun contest by the Ministry of Health. A new competition for maintenance of communication connectivity should have been announced long ago, but for unknown reasons this happened only after the expiry of the contract. Deputy Minister Nenkov's comment on the issue is that nothing terrible has happened and in the worst case the addresses of the calls should be recorded by hand, and this was common practice in the past. The statement of the Deputy Minister is not serious and in general shows the attitude of the office towards pressing and urgent problems and the inability to identify and resolve priority tasks. Another argument in defence of the Ministry was that a better price would be agreed for maintenance of the system, and this purpose justifies the delayed competition. What's the guarantee of that? In practice, you say that you deliberately make the emergency communications system more vulnerable in the name of savings that you cannot guarantee. Meanwhile, the national emergency system and phone 112 are also in a catastrophic state. This is not news, as the phone has not been supported since 2015, resulting in errors in reception of signals and forwarding of emergency teams. Mistakes that cost a man's life! As a matter of fact, there was a public procurement by the Ministry of Interior to restore the maintenance and renewal of the system. The aim was to remove the malfunctions and not to need more 112 phones to operate in emergency mode. A new functionality of the system was also set up, namely the possibility of sending a text call to 112. Such an option is particularly important for people with auditory and speech disabilities who are currently unable to make emergency calls. Soon after the announcement of the public procurement, it became clear that the Interior Minister Radev had stopped it. The official explanation was that he felt pressured by the firm running the contract, whatever that means!? Moreover, it did not become clear whether a new public procurement would be announced and when would that happen? The minister also presented statistics saying that 136 errors are made on 600,000 calls and determined this within the statistical error. What if in one of these cases it was a chain accident with multiple victims, for example?! The Minister's statement is cynical. We must strive to eliminate errors, not to analyze them. There are things that 99.9% reliability is low and 112 is one of them. The other reason for the debate initiated by us on the topic of emergency medicine is the question of the standard of emergency medicine. It is perhaps the most important legal document regulating the emergency medicine activity. It sets the regulatory framework for the work of emergency assistance and ensures the maintenance and implementation of quality control of the health service, and unifys the medical and diagnostic process in emergency patients. For more than half a year, colleagues in emergency care work without standard. The reason for this is that the standard introduced by Minister Moskov was appealed in court and declared invalid. Thus created a regulatory vacuum that brought behind a number of problems. When we asked the question of the lack of standard for emergency medicine, a new standard validation regulation has not yet been published. There is already one, and the new standard is set for public discussion, which is undoubtedly a positive development of the issue. Interestingly, however, the so-called new standard is a copy of the old one, except for Chapter Four, concerning hospital care structures. In fact, the new proposal simply lowers requirements for hospitals, everything else is largely the same as in the previous document. The standard is important for both patients and for emergency workers. It not only regulates all processes in emergency medicine, ensures the quality of emergency care, but also protects those working in the system in case a patient seeks his rights in court. Since you are aware of the urgency of the rewriting of the standard, why did this happen only after four months of your management? The adoption of the standard is also of key importance because of the Project for Modernization of Emergency Aid with Euro Funds. It also lays down measures aimed at overcoming the extremely serious problem of aggression over medical professionals in emergency aid. The idea of today's debate is to talk about both the current problems of emergency assistance and its future. In this regard we should also focus on the vision and Strategy of the Ministry for Emergency Assistance. There are two other documents of particular importance. These are the National Health Strategy 2020 in its section on emergency medicine and the concept of the development of emergency medicine. While the Strategy must outline the ways of developing emergency medicine, present the big picture and the measures to be taken in the long term to ensure quality and accessible to all emergency aid, the Concept defines specific and medium-term measures in this direction. In our question to the Minister of Health, we asked what is the Emergency Medicine Strategy and were forwarded to the already mentioned documents. The idea of the issue was rather you to present to us your reading of the Strategy and Concept. Do they need a change, or are you planning on following them in their current form? What is the vision of the Ministry for Emergency Aid? On what topics of the Strategy and Conception is the Ministry currently working on? All the questions we ask you to answer. One of the most important and pressing issues, for example, is the lack of personnel in emergency medical care. The specialty of emergency medicine is currently not attractive for young doctors. What measures will be taken to stop the turnover of personnel and the flow of specialized staff in emergency centres? In fact, perhaps we should first make the subject of emergency aid a priority of the executive power. Unfortunately, we do not see pro-activity from the government, predicting difficulties and preventive measures before things get out of control. However, we hope that this will change in the future...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u14	Mr. Timchev, make your way to completion. You will develop the subject in your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u15	Yeah, I'm done. And although the problems of emergency assistance are numerous and will not be resolved within this debate, we want to focus the attention of the Ministry first of all on three main things. By 31 December 2017, the Minister of Health shall present to the Committee on Health Strategy for the Development of Emergency Aid in Bulgaria. Second, a Regulation on the medical standard in emergency medicine should be adopted by 30 September 2017. And thirdly, by 30 October 2017, the Minister of Health will present to the Committee on Health information on the activities carried out on projects for the modernisation of emergency assistance under the Operational Programme "Regions in growth" and training of those working in the emergency aid system under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" and their forecast for realization. I expect you to support these proposals. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. Take part of the time of the group, so requested by the group BSP for Bulgaria. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Minister, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u17	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u18	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thank you for this debate, because I see it as a chance to make a review report to you about what, how and with what funds is happening in the emergency department. You have well mentioned that the Emergency Aid Concept is part of the National Strategy 2014-2020, adopted in November 2014, so I will not dwell on this detail. What's the situation with the emergency system right now? 27 emergency medical centers and 176 branches are currently operating. Each call is received in the district coordination stations of the single 112 phone and this is carried out by a team of doctors and medical professionals. The information shall be stored for three years. Emergency aid provides: qualified medical care for sudden illness, intensive care for severe cases, emergency emergency assistance, specialized emergency transport, inter-hospital transport, blood and blood products, transportation of persons with mental problems, transportation of national consultants, as well as transportation of medicines and bioproducts. About the footage. In all emergency and branch centers work a total of 7113 people - 1551 doctors and 2605 medical professionals - these are nurses and paramedics. Regarding their age distribution, it is noticed that the main group Regarding nurses, 65.5% are aged 35 years. In terms of their qualification, doctors with specialty are 50.2%, as a specialty of medical care, really have few doctors, these are 60, it is really not very attractive for the workers. 388 emergency teams work every day in the country. Of these 85 are resuscitation and 274 are doctoral and dolek. There are 29 clean transport teams that support the country's duty. The number of calls in the last three years has dropped slightly. For 2014 759 thousand. calls; 2016 Seventy-five hundred and twenty-two thousand. Naturally, they are distributed primarily in large cities. With regard to means of transport: 2007 were purchased 157 ambulances; 2008 - 108 ambulances; 2009 .. 162; 2014 sharp decline....56. Since 2009, there has been a process of replacing the equipment in ambulances, and it is mainly defibrillators, respiratory and infusion pumps. What is the conclusion so far, ladies and gentlemen of the House? The conclusion is that this system needs a change and it consists in changing the base, changing the equipment and changing the qualification and organization of work. This is precisely why the project under Operational Programme is launched "Regions in Growth" - Priority of Axis 4 - Regional Health Infrastructure. The project aims to upgrade and modernize the building fund and equipment in the emergency assistance system throughout the country. This is one project. The other project, as you said and will be mentioned further, is regarding the qualification of personnel. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the financing 502 thousand. BGN 132. Range. "237 sites, points of emergency medical assistance in the country. They are allocated to 34 emergency wards in hospitals, 27 emergency care centers and 176 branches outside district cities. What activities are planned under this project? First, construction and repair and construction works in relation to the base. Second, the purchase of sanitary cars. 400 pieces are planned at the present time. And third, delivery and installation of equipment and medical equipment. The project proposal is prepared by an external consultant, the Union of Regional Health Infrastructures, elected after a procedure under the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, with a contract concluded on 17 August 2016, worth 2 million. $865,000. lv. with VAT. The contractor of this contract should draw up the overall project proposal as well as carry out all the activities needed to apply. The first stage of the consultant's work has been completed so far and 20% of the project funds have been paid. In order to ensure transparency, efficiency and effectiveness in the preparation of the project, the European Commission's structure is included. The submission of the draft proposal is fixed until 15 December 2017. What's the situation so far? Out of 237 sites, of which 34 emergency rooms and 203 emergency centers and affiliates, are fully settled 200 sites. Out of 203 sites, the centres and emergency medical affiliates, 195 are completely solved. What are they supposed to do? New construction in 90 sites "Central and peripheral affiliates," reconstruction and repair in 105 sites. There are eight problem objects left. The 34 emergency rooms provide for new construction in three sites, reconstruction and repair in 29 sites and a solution is expected for two sites. That is, the new construction will cover 93 sites, and the reconstruction and repair will cover 134. As regards the consultant, the activities are allocated to the contract in several stages. 1st supplier-technical, zero stage; stage one supplier, confirmation of the scope of the project. This is the stage that has been completed and paid. The second stage is forthcoming: feasibility study and pre-project assessment: technical, economic and financial, as well as environmental assessment, preparation of ideas and technical projects together with quantitative-value accounts. The time limit for this activity shall be 78 calendar days. Next up is the application stage. So far, under this contract, there is a first stage with the consultant and a second stage ahead when these last eight sites are completed, where property is still transferred from municipalities or a right of use to the Ministry of Health. I hope that this thing will end this month because the contract with the consultant states that the consultant will begin the implementation of this stage as soon as all the documentation is provided to him fully and fully. Currently, only eight documents have not been submitted to eight objects, which I suppose will end this month. However, there are several problems. The first delay I mentioned, which slows us down with these eight objects and I hope that we will end within this month. Secondly, the increased estimated valuation, which comes from the high requirements of the standard, was cancelled by the Supreme Administrative Court, which placed higher requirements for the number of territories, the area of the territories, as well as increased requirements for equipment and medical equipment, and last but not least sanitary vehicles. You know that in a very urgent order a change of standard has been prepared, it is uploaded for public discussion and as soon as the public consultation period expires, we will immediately come up with a regulation. However, this standard of emergency medical care, which, according to many colleagues, is a pretty good standard, must also be followed by the so-called.............................................. to it.................................... Exactly the analysis is the weak side that caused some turbulence in some of our structures. This analysis is also ready and when the legal period for discussion expires, the standard will be put into effect immediately. What have you done so far, apart from what you've said, the current team of the Ministry of Health? Multiple meetings with Jaspers to speed up the project and we have the approval of Jaspers. The standard of emergency medicine also mentioned that we are already finalizing it. With regard to the numerous meetings with the consultant, our insistence is not to formalize, but to take the completed files and start working, because that will buy us time. What's the point of having over 200 files ready and waiting for the other eight not ready so we can start a job that can go on right now? We have speeded up the process of transferring properties and we have created a guiding group between the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Health, which includes personally two Deputy Ministers: Ms. Denitsa Nikolova from the Regional Ministry and Dr. Miroslav Nenkov. A road map has been made with deadlines and so on. That is, my desire, my efforts will be aimed at meeting all the deadlines and this project will happen because he, you are right, perhaps will be at the heart of the overall change in Bulgarian health care. With regard to the second project, you are not right that nothing has been done to improve the conditions for emergency care. With regard to the Project "Puls". The aim of the project is to improve the quality of the specialized medical assistance provided through investment in human capital. The total budget value of the project is 7 million. BGN, 100% grant. The main activities are aimed at two groups: the construction and equipment of the National Centre for the Continuing Training of Workers in the Emergency Medical System and, secondly, the organization and implementation of three types of trainings: initial, periodic and continuing. The Ministry of Health established the National Centre in September 2016. It will be located in the building of the National Center of Public Health and Analyses. This is the building of the so-called Hygiena. Take a look at the dates of what's happening. On 4 August this year, the Ministry of Health announced a competition for the position of............................................................................................ The deadline for submission of documents is September 4th, after which a Director will be elected. By order of the Health Ministry on 19 July 2017, a working group was established to analyse the need for training of emergency medical centres within two months. By another order of 19 July this year and another working group, an analysis of the training of emergency personnel also has a term of two months. Two working groups will be set up to develop the methodologies and programmes for initial, periodic and continuing training, as well as the methodologies for periodic evaluation of the qualifications of emergency workers. A working group is working under a procedure and is to be announced under the order of the Public Works Act for Construction and Installation at the National Center for the Development of a Website. On 25 August 2017, a procedure for the purchase of medical equipment and the establishment of the National Centre was launched for a total of 743 thousand. lv. in three lots: medical equipment, computer equipment, furniture and stationery. It's underway. On 7 July 2017, a working group launched a CSC procedure to ensure the logistics of training of staff in centres and emergency rooms with a total value of 4 million. Three hundred and thirty-five On 10 July 2017, a working group launched a procedure for the selection of lecturers on the project. On 14 July 2017 we launched a procedure for the production of information and communication support of the Center itself. This is not small at all, these are actions that are moving in time and will be ready much earlier than the deadline for completion of the project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u20	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, there is coordination at 11:00 to be the break, but the debate will be about an hour, so I suggest we don't interrupt it. I'm announcing a 30-minute recess until 11.20. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u21	Colleagues, please take your seats. We are continuing the debate. Dr. Daritkova, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! My fellow Members who have caused this debate, I hope that you will be satisfied this time with the detailed information that has been presented to you by the Minister of Health, because reading the shorthand, the reason for today's debate, is that you have remained dissatisfied with the Minister's response to your parliamentary questioning. I believe that the debates really need to be in the interests of the healthcare system, and I am convinced that your thinking is the same, and that is why we will support part of your draft decision, but in relation to the claims of regulatory correctness and accuracy, I will try to correct the project so that it complies with the current regulatory framework. Our proposal for an editorial amendment to the submitted Draft Decision concerning the debates on inquiry No 754 05 27 of 28 June 2017 by the MPs Ilian Timchev, Georgi Yordanov and Valentina Naydenova to the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on the implementation of projects for modernisation and training in emergency aid and a comprehensive strategy for the development of emergency medical care is as follows. We suggest t. 1 et c. 2 to drop, and the text of the previous item. 3 to become the text of the decision and to be amended as follows: "3." Within 30 October 2017, the Minister of Health shall submit to the Committee on Health up-to-date information on the level of implementation of the activities under the Operational Programme I will motivate our proposals by referring again to the laws and the Constitution of the country. Why, since you yourself have mentioned that you have informed yourself that there is a concept and a strategy for the development of healthcare with a horizon of action 2020, do you propose that the Minister should again propose in this decision? Under the Health Act, state policy is guided and implemented by the Council of Ministers, with the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Health approving a National Health Strategy adopted by the National Assembly. The current National Health Strategy, which also has all the intentions for reforms with Horizon 2020, is a fact and is adopted by the National Assembly on 17 December 2015. There is also an action plan for it. We also have the Concept for the development of the emergency medical system as an integrated document for the complex development of emergency medical care by 2020, which contributes to the realization of the projects and the link between the priorities of the European Union and the national priorities of Bulgaria, including in the field of health care. This document has also been adopted by the Council of Ministers, it is up to date, it is available, it is accessible and it makes no sense to repeat it in a decision of the National Assembly because it has already been adopted according to the health law established in the health system, namely the Health Act. In addition, every year we receive, again under the Health Act, and a report on the progress of the implementation of the National Health Strategy. This report is submitted within 3 months before the beginning of the budget year, that is, very soon we hope that the Ministry of Health will present us with such a report. In this sense, there is no legislative and regulatory logic for the first point to exist in our decision. With regard to your second proposal, I would like to recall again the basis for issuing and validating medical standards by 30 September 2017. The establishment law is the Law on Medical Institutions, in art. 6, it is clearly written that the activities of medical institutions and medical and other specialists working in them are carried out in compliance with medical standards for the quality of medical care provided and the protection of the patient's rights. Medical standards are validated by regulations of the Minister of Health. The draft regulation for validating a medical standard is a fact. He was under public consultation. Anyone who had any remarks to him could have submitted them by yesterday. I know that there are proposals for correction in this standard and it is yet to be really established by a relevant regulation and its inclusion in the legal order for validation. I would also like to recall the Constitution of the country. In it in art. 86, para. 2 It is clearly written that the laws and decisions of the National Assembly are binding on all state bodies, organizations and citizens. There is no way in our decision we can oblige the Minister to comply with the Law. This a priori is an obligation. It is therefore illogical and your second proposal, the second point in the draft decision, especially that there is no only standard for emergency medicine. There are medical standards in all medical majors. Why would we take this place as a priority just this standard? Will we make decisions for any other standard of the National Assembly for the Minister to comply with the law, implement it and publish it? It is a good thing that most of them are a fact, but there are other standards that are currently at the stage of public discussion. We therefore believe that point two of your Project decision should be dismissed. As regards point three, I would like to emphasise that it is important to obtain up-to-date information, because it has always been in the interest and the ruling coalition's implementation of the Emergency Aid Modernization Project. It is a fact that at the very first parliamentary control in the Committee on Health, the first question that we asked from the parliamentary group of GERB, I myself asked it to the Minister of Health, was precisely in terms of progress in the implementation of the activities of this project. Stenograms are a fact and you can meet them. We therefore believe that it is important to keep up-to-date information on the subject The other editorials that I have made are for the purpose of the terms used in the draft decision to be relevant to the legitimate terms that exist in the programmes that have been established for implementation by 2020. I believe that in the spirit of consensus and dialogue, in the interests of the health of Bulgarian citizens, in the interests of health security, you will accept my logic and we will adopt a draft decision that is really in the interest of the successful realization of this project, because it is important that we really make the most of these funds, that we can have in the long term emergency assistance that guarantees health security, and that is in the interests of each and every one of us, of every Bulgarian citizen. Here political play is unacceptable. Here we all have to look for the above-party consensus and now is the time to show it. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u23	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. - What's the line? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u24	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! I take a line on the fact that when developing the draft decision the time was nearly a month and a half before today's meeting. We have had plenty of time to see how things are going both on point one and on point two, and to see that in time the Ministry will actually deal with these points, i.e. that it is going in the direction of time in which the medical standard can be adopted and discussed very quickly, and with regard to the Strategy. My line is that we wanted to see the minister's opinion in person. We know that the Minister is obliged to implement the country's policy and laws and the policy of the government. Secondly, we knew that this strategy was adopted, and we discussed it here. So I don't accept that we haven't read our material properly. On the contrary, the material was imported sufficiently in time, as you know how things are moving in emergency aid, how many problems have arisen, and I am glad that it entered the room, although with some delay. Perhaps my colleagues, who are also in the Health Commission, would actually support the dropping out of this. 1 et c. 2 and would also support the redeployment of t. 3. After all, we aim to obtain a common document with a common understanding of all MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Second line? Here's a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Professor Petrov! My reply to Dr. Daritkova is that I accept some of your arguments, because in fact, within about 60 days, many of the things that have been reported by the Ministry of Health show extreme concern over the direction of urgent assistance, which excites the whole country. This is quite understandable because emergency aid represents the face of all healthcare. It concerns one of the most vulnerable groups of patients in health care, such as those who have suffered disabilities due to disasters, accidents, attacks, transport accidents, children under one year, giving birth. I don't want to list all the emergency contingents, but that's part of national security. But what I would like to offer you in the framework of your proposed consensus is that we are really interested in the strategy of professor. Petrov not only as Minister of Health but as Chairman of the Society of Anesthesiology and Reanimation. These are the specialists who are the backbone of emergency health care. They must bear in mind the honourable Members of the Chamber who are not obliged to be in the details of the information that for the last 10 years alone, I suppose, Professor. Petrov will confirm it with 36%, for many subjective reasons, there has been an increase in emergency assistance throughout the world and its entire structure at the moment, especially on the territory of the global world, for reasons I do not want to comment on right now, is changing very seriously. In this sense, the designated Strategy 14.. 20 could undergo changes in the vision of one of the most competent specialists in the field of emergency assistance. This was the basis of our argument to seek his opinion in our testimony for the development of the Strategy in a specific period, which is the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u27	Thank you, dear Dr. Mihailov. Is there a third line? I can't see. We're finishing the line procedure. There won't be a hole. Let's continue with the speech. Dr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u28	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Today, the debate is on one of the most important topics for our society. It is normal to focus on the so-called projects, which have been chewed in our space for a long time, and why they are not eventually realized. Of course, when it comes to an order of more than 160 million. BGN, the topic is very pleasant. Here, however, I cannot help but mention something that gives us a repper of our country's administrative capacity. On these so-called projects, we had adopted a concept and funding from the European Union 2013. Public procurement. Since then, the fourth year we are still at the stage where we wonder if this money will be absorbed or not. And here I can't hold back and make a recommendation to the Minister. We are perhaps the only country that relies on European funds to buy ambulances. Like you said right, Professor. Petrov, really the last ambulances were bought in 2009, approximately. Since then, 50 ambulances have been bought, which are negligible. So can't our country buy the necessary ambulances?! In this case, we are talking about 400 or one resource between 12 and 15 million. lv. and we have to rely on projects that we see don't happen in time. And imagine a car that's been manufactured in 2008, for nine years. If it's a private car, you're gonna want to change it, and this is an ambulance. It is depreciated enough and remortized and we rely on it. But no, my colleagues have touched on the subject enough. Here I would like to put two points, which I believe are priority and essential and for reflection. The first question is the differentiation of the so-called emergency foster rooms. It is known that according to methodology the Ministry pays 42 emergency rooms in the country. This concerns mainly district hospitals, university hospitals and, according to my information, we have only one in the municipal hospital, the Second City Hospital, or St. Panteleimon Hospital, in the city of Plovdiv. Thus, municipal hospitals, which are 60, are isolated from the possibility of receiving resources to harness into emergency rooms and to provide geographically the closest assistance to the needy emergency patients. Thus, the local authorities, the mayor of the municipality, the municipal councillors are isolated from the possibility of helping at all the legal, regulatoryly supporting the financing of the hospital's activities and especially the emergency rooms. In other words, they are isolated from the possibility of responding to the attitudes of their constituents, the population of the municipality, in the area of emergency medical care. This can't go on like this for me. So a mayor, if he's not involved in emergency medical care, does he have more important things to do?! This needs to be changed and can be done by changing the methodology under which emergency rooms are financed. There's an impression. I'd especially like to draw your attention to professor. Petrov that emergency medical care is a system that develops almost for itself. She takes the patient and the colleagues in it want to rotate him into Emergency Medical to take the resources for him. They reluctantly pass it on to other structures, they want to treat it. In the end, this was the case until 2006, when a decision was made and emergency reception wards from the structure of emergency medical care went to district hospitals. I think we should take in our mandate legislative initiatives where emergency reception rooms... By the way, I just saw, I'm sorry, and Dr. Grudev. The hospital in Asenovgrad is not entitled to receive a subsidy from the Ministry of Health for the financing of its emergency room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u29	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u30	She's losing, Dr. Grudev, I think about 1 million a year, which the municipality is struggling in some way to compensate them and the hospital has worse financial results than that. Should the patient from Lucky from Asenovgrad be taken to the emergency reception rooms in the city of Plovdiv and cannot be served with the help of the ministerial funding in Asenovgrad itself?! The other problem, which I think is a priority, is why is emergency medical care and special emergency reception rooms becoming a portal for the treatment of the country's uninsured citizens? It was very convenient to call normally after the work hours of the Jeep at 19.00 or to go to the emergency room and to have all the tests carried out, the necessary procedures in an emergency order and, if necessary, without the so-called event, to be admitted, hospitalized at the hospital. Then they can't deny you that you're not health insurance. Provided that the uninsured health data in Bulgaria gravitates between 600,000 and 1 million, you understand what this is about. Between 15 and 20 per cent of Bulgarian citizens are in a situation where they are insanely using emergency medical care as their own portal, their own entry into the healthcare system. Here, the health care system spends this money, but the hospital and all healthcare performers, respectively, do not receive funds for this. This is one of the results for medical institutions to be in poor financial condition. I think this debate should continue. He can't be solved now. I won't comment on the draft decision. I will vote with my vote. I repeat, these are the two important priorities. We must involve local authorities with a commitment to the emergency care system and cross the attempts of health-insured individuals to use emergency assistance as an entry into the health care system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u31	Thank you, dear Dr. Yordanov. Are there any lines to Dr. Yordanov's statement? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u32	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Dr. Yordanov, my reply to you is to your conviction that municipal hospitals have no right to receive funding for emergency rooms and have no right to disclose such. On the contrary, read the Ministry of Health Ordinance 49, which specifically mentions the requirements for hospital care facilities. There it is mandatory to sign the disclosure of emergency rooms in multi-profile hospitals, which are district hospitals. In the case of available resources, no one forbids municipal hospitals to reveal such compartments. Having such a exposed ward in any multi-profile municipal hospital, the Ministry would have signed a contract with her. The fact that municipal hospitals do not have the capacity to reveal emergency accommodations is a problem of the municipalities and of the management of these hospitals. Please adjust your opinion on the issue of opening emergency rooms and their funding from the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Come in for a second line, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u34	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! I'm making a replica of Dr. Yordanov in the sense that there can be no uncontrolled production of emergency wards to medical facilities. There certainly is a need, but where and how as numbers? What priority and what degree do they have of qualification? All of this is determined by the National Health Card, and we don't seem to want to admit that it is. There are so many elements that it contains, it says what, where. Each hospital cannot, even if it meets certain conditions, be authorised. Shouldn't there be a need, shouldn't it be territorially distributed?! The National Health Card says where, how much and how we will have emergency rooms, emergency centers and affiliates. I think things are much deeper. If we comply with it, if we go back to the National Health Card, to its elements, and if it is necessary to update it in the light of the new conditions, we would work much easier from now on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u35	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. Here's a third line, dear Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u36	Honourable Chairman, Honorable Assoc. Yordanov, dear colleagues! Let's not make free interpretations on the topic of "Normal" because we confuse colleagues. Any hospital care facility under the law is obliged to maintain the possibility of emergency assistance in the activities for which it has concluded a contract with the NHIF and implements it. It is a matter of a decision of the management of the relevant medical establishment according to the personnel and the material and technical resources, how it will provide this emergency assistance. From now on, every hospital is to provide emergency services. Yeah, there are hospitals like the districts that are required to have emergency rooms. Municipal hospitals in difficultly accessible and remote regions, including the hospital in Asenovgrad, receive a subsidy from the Ministry of Health according to a financing methodology for maintaining an emergency. The fact is that without a case being assessed as an emergency, patients cannot be returned. On the contrary, it is a problem to verify and control whether all healthcare establishments that have entered into a contract provide such urgent assistance. This should be the priority of the Ministry of Health. Everything else about the National Health Card is incorrect. It's the law that's in charge. All medical institutions are obliged to provide emergency medical care in a form and manner in which the management of the medical establishment and the rest of the regulations replace them.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u37	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Assoc. Yordanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u38	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! You have a deep misunderstanding about the nature of emergency reception rooms. [[National Representative Daniela Daritkova laughs.]] Dr. Daritkova, hospitals must provide emergency care and receive emergency patients, but when the patient will not be hospitalized, then what happens? Second, any hospital could find an emergency room. Yeah, maybe. She can open a space medicine ward. We're talking about funding from the Ministry of Health. Mr. Minister will tell you about the list of hospitals that receive a subsidy to finance their emergency reception rooms.................. what are the criteria and which are these wards............................................................................................................................................ These are the 42 compartments in Bulgaria that receive this subsidy. The others up to 340 I was already confused about the number of hospitals that are in debt, no.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u39	Do you want private hospitals to be funded by the Ministry?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u40	Sorry, I can't hear very well. I'll talk to you later. We can have a dialogue, no problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u41	Don't engage in dialogue!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u42	The issue is financing the activity under the Ministry of Health methodology. I'm wondering if a director of a regional health inspection would say that a hospital should open up an emergency room and look for his funding. In what way? Take money from the patients to pay? Here, the coworker says she's got a nail on her and she needs a TAP. Who's gonna make this TAP? Which hospital? [[Reply of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova.]] For example, Madan must go to Smolyan to make a TAP. Well, why wouldn't he go to Madan if they had a ward like this? That's much better, and he won't pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u43	Thank you, dear Assoc. Yordanov. Any further comments? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Honourable Professor. Petrov, quite seriously yesterday I committed myself to this as a non-specialist in the field of emergency assistance to make some international inquiries to see how things are going throughout the European Union. If we escape from the subject of the principles of order, what the Law says and when we should not proceed, I think that this debate would be very helpful if we turned to two fundamental questions. The first one is that we started with what is going on with the Realization Program, which is funded by the European Union. I think we got a real picture here. The second question I agree with the colleague is the question of the Strategy for the Development of Emergency Aid. It is connected, regardless of how the Law is structured, and must be implemented with the National Health Card. And this issue must be very carefully refined by working groups, of interdisciplinary staff, in which specialists are involved, because very seriously what we see as specialists and professionals is disturbed is the balance between the possibility of emergency assistance in various regions of the country. Everyone who deals with emergency medicine knows that there are standards of so-called golden hours in the various areas of urgent neurology, cardiology, transport urgency. If we turn to the real map of the country, not the health card, where there are hospitals to deal with the treatment, e.g. emergency conditions in cardiology, we will see that there are countless possibilities for invasive cardiology, which is one of the emergency treatments in the field of cardiology, I try to speak in quite understandable language, while in other areas this is not available at all. For this reason, a few months ago we presented to the honourable audience of our colleagues the data that goes to healthcare between different districts goes to debalance per capita one to seven, for example Plovdiv to Dobrich district. This is absolutely unacceptable because people everywhere need urgent help. This requires the revision, and that is why we propose that this Strategy be carefully thought out, really reviewed in the framework of a professional and public discussion, so that an exact solution can be reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u45	Thank you, dear Dr. Mihailov. - What's the line? I can't see. There's a word for words, Dr. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u46	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! We often repeat that the emergency system is part of the national security of each country, respectively Bulgaria, without having emergency situations, accidents, accidents, industrial accidents or, God forbid, war. Emergency assistance is an extremely important part of the functioning health system. Seven hundred and sixty thousand calls and reviews within a year! Dear colleagues, this means that this is the system that overheats very often, and the emergency system overheats because it fills loops, gaps, poor work of other units in the health system. The expectations of the Bulgarian citizens from emergency aid are very high and if the Health Insurance Fund has expectations only the health insured, the Emergency Aid high expectations have both the health insurance and the health insured. They expect a lot, I'd even say they expect anything. However, the expectations of people in large cities and in the capital are one thing, the expectations of people in remote small towns are quite different. I always wish when we talked about emergency services, we could split things up. Because the Sofian, the man in the university city, expects to receive such assistance after his call within 15-20 minutes when he has not found his jeep when it is Saturday-Sunday, when it is at night, when it is days off, whether it is urgent or urgent. Here is another topic in general about the separation between what is urgency and urgency in the system and what calls should actually serve the system. However, the expectations of people in small towns, in municipalities are the urgent help to provide them with everything they cannot get from the missing medical care there at all. Because it's one thing when in Borino, Madan or Devin, where there are 120 neighborhoods, a team waits for a call, whether it's a stroke or a traffic accident or something else. There the aid will not be within the golden 15-20 minutes, because winter time these 100 km is overcome in two hours. However, the expectations of those working in the system are also very important. If the problems of whether the combined emergency centers in Sofia-district or Sofia-city often fall into media vision, the affiliates in Gorna Oryahovitsa and Provadia enter when a team that works is attacked or a nurse is offended, whether it is verbal or physical assault. The expectations of the workers are not just for a decent pay, Mr. Minister, not just for equipped ambulances, but also for re-qualification and motivation, for a secure environment for people to work in. Panic buttons can solve the problem in some of the ambulances on the yellow pavement, but will not solve the problem in the municipalities of Varbitsa, Antonovo or Nikola Kozlevo. That is why the question that BSP colleagues put is very important. We have already made clear that the concept has been adopted and we do not need to discuss change again, because adoption of a concept was one of the conditions to start applying under the Programme. We explained that yesterday the period for public discussion about the standard of things happened literally in the hours before the discussion that after two days the deadline for the election of a manager of the training center was over. However, the question of colleagues working in emergency centres is: what will happen to their training and qualification? They're interested in when this National Training Center will start. A few days ago, training was conducted for fellow students from the fifth and sixth courses precisely in emergency medicine. Turns out it's a huge interest. That is, young colleagues are interested in this activity, but you reported that only 50% of the workers are up to the age of 55. It makes sense, then, that over 50% are adults older than 55 years. We have a huge problem that needs to be addressed, because human resources are actually the most important problem in this system as well. My question is: when will the training centre really start and if there is danger and opportunity, if there is a problem with clarifying the ownership of eight such future funding centres, still go ahead, because you said 200 sites have already been cleared and the program can be launched. It would be extremely unacceptable for all Bulgaria not to take advantage of 160 million resources under this programme and I am sure that you will do everything possible to use this resource. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u47	Thank you, dear Dr. Jaffer. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u48	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With what Mrs Jaffer has completed, I would like to begin, namely, the human factor in emergency assistance............................................................................. Why? Because as well as whatever equipment we do, without people, it won't happen. In the concept, point two, I think, a great Roman, it is said: "Formation and sustainable implementation of a policy for the preservation and development of human resources in the emergency system." Exactly to these points I want to make proposals. Firstly, clear financial incentives for those working in the emergency system. Let us unite in the 2018 budget to really have such clear financial incentives for colleagues working in emergency aid. Now the coworkers are working second because they don't have enough money. Busy work, overload sometimes leads to mistakes or conflicts.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u49	Mrs. Klisarova, you're running out of time, so if you don't mind, make it short.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u50	Sustainable policy yes, for maintaining and expanding, I absolutely agree. Please, we don't have any regulation on paramedics what they do and who will make these uniform diagnostic, therapeutic rules and algorithms. Let's work them out as soon as possible. This will make it easier for you to work in emergency care. In Regulation No 1 let's say and mention the paramedics, so far they are only nurses and midwifes. These are my additions I'd like to do for the staff qualification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u51	Thank you, dear Professor. Klisarova. Any lines to the statement? I won't. A statement? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u52	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! This emergency strategy is very important. First, that the 160 million that we would absorb from Europe are vital as a financial resource and as a model of organization of emergency units and assistance to hospitals in small municipalities. Why am I saying this thing? Because in some small municipalities hospitals deal with unnecessary hospitalizations, and there may be an emergency, a modern centre to meet the requirements of the health needs of the population in small municipalities and to assess which of the emergencies is for hospitalization in a larger hospital and who can be treated in a smaller one and who should not be hospitalized at all. So an hour should rather finish this project, these centers should work at full speed. They will help health care across the chain at all. The other important thing is the delay in the project. I personally as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the University Hospital Pleven until before 3 - 4 months, I give such an example: the municipalities themselves and the state sometimes, the public hospitals delayed for objective reasons the project because it was not in time to vote on the areas where these centres should be built. I know with us that we voted twice different terrains, of which the first turned out to be simply inappropriate for this center. So there are objective reasons for delaying the programme, but we hope that it will end soon, work and help in the overall health strategy in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u53	Thank you, dear Dr. Popovski. Do we have a line to Dr. Popovski's statement? We don't. Any other speeches, colleagues? There are no speeches. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. We are now going to vote on the draft decision. First we will vote on the editorial amendments that Dr. Daritkova proposed. We'll vote them one by one. Come in for a procedure, Dr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u54	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! We agree with the editorial amendment in point. 3, but we're offering t. 1 to remain by undergoing an editorial change to present............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u55	What is this procedure?! What's that?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u56	Until December the vision of the Ministry of Emergency Aid Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria. What will you do in the mandate of your government?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u57	This procedure is inadmissible, Madam President!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u58	So we keep it t. 1 in the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u59	You don't have time!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u60	Thank you. I propose the editorial amendment to Dr. Daritkova. One, drop it all. Please, voting mode. Vote 160 MPs: 102, against 57, abstention 1. The proposal to drop the item. 1 is accepted. The second editorial amendment is for dropping the t. 2. Please, voting mode. Vote 162 MPs: 106 against 1, abstention 55. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next proposal for editing c. 3. The text of the current t. 3 to become a text of the Decision and to be amended as follows: the Minister of Health shall, by 30 October 2017, present to the Committee on Health up-to-date information on the extent of the implementation of the activities under the Operational Programme Please, voting mode. Vote 162 MPs: 162, no objection, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] Now, in full, let's vote on the whole Project for a solution once again. Please, voting mode. Vote 162 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 54. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u61	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I suggest you accept it on the grounds of art. 48, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall decide on a regular plenary session on 7 September 2017, Thursday, from 1300 to 18.00. Please vote! Vote 155 MPs: 150, against 1 and abstention 4. The motion is accepted. With regard to the decision just adopted, allow me to remind the committee guides and their members to organise committee meetings on Thursday, 7 September 2017, in the most convenient way for them. Proposals on the agenda may be made by 18:00 on 5 September 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u62	Honourable Members, we are going to Parliamentary Control. The first question is to the Minister of Youth and Sports Mr. Krasen Kralev from the MPs Vesela Lecheva and Ivan Chenchev about the state of the Winter Palace of Sport in Sofia. You're welcome to develop your question, colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u63	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the one hand, I am pleased because when an entry is made on 21 June 2017 today, on 1 September, we will get an answer. I am also pleased that our question is mine and the colleague Vesela Lecheva, as well as on behalf of the parliamentary group, is obviously taken into account and has a result. At the same time, I am not pleased because the Bulgarian people's representation had to understand the result of this issue from the media pages. In BSP we believe and believe the representatives of the majority, as, of course, the Minister and his trusted ministry, that sports color does not have. By the way, this is how we work in the permanent parliamentary Committee on Children, Youth and Sports in a way that understands the important problems for the Bulgarian sport. With a view to approaching the final stage of preparations for the Winter Olympics in Pyongchan, South Korea in February 2018, it is important for us to know, as we had formulated on 21 June 2017. What is the current state of the Winter Palace of Sport in Bulgaria? Does the Minister say there's bad management? We know about a lot of problems there. How will the question of the accompanying parts be resolved, the training room? And a bunch more things I've written here, but I'd like the Minister to say first what we've already learned from the media regarding the intended means of repairing the palace, and then I'll use my right to a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. I give the Minister the floor for a response within 3 minutes. Here you are, Minister Kralev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u65	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chenchev! Of course, I had the opportunity to answer your question immediately during the meeting of the Standing Parliamentary Committee. Thank you for having the opportunity here now in front of all the MPs to answer this question, because it is not insignificant because it concerns the condition of the only indoor facility for winter sports in our country. In view of the analyses and findings reflected in a report of the Municipal Commission for Verification and Control of Compliance with Engineering and Technical Requirements for Sports Sites in terms of their security from 23 June 2017, Winter Palace of Sports, Sofia, although it is quite depreciated, is in satisfactory condition, with no danger either for trainers or for workers there because the installations are maintained. We plan at the latest by the end of this month to start renovating the Winter Palace, and the building and halls have not been subject to serious reconstruction since their construction in the mid-80s of the last century. The schedule is agreed with the Bulgarian Skating Federation, the Bulgarian Ice Hockey Federation and all sports clubs in Sofia, which conduct a training process on the sports site. All facilities function, are maintained by a competent team and by professionals, permanent control of operation is provided. The sports object households and is able to accept training programs from the calendar of the ice sports in Bulgaria, as well as to host international tournaments and championships. As early as 2016, in the previous term as Minister of Youth and Sports, I made a commitment that options for repairing the largest facility for practicing winter sports in Sofia will be found. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, with regard to the Winter Palace of Sport, the renovation will include the introduction of energy-efficient measures through a guarantee contract, an ECCO contract and construction and installation activities in the main and training hall of the palace, with the estimated value of 4 million. lv. without VAT. The air conditioning and heating installation in the Winter Palace has a huge waste of energy. The roof is not thermally insulated and the cost of normal functioning of the sports complex is significant. Therefore, in the implementation of the energy-efficient measures is provided for thermal insulation, roof repair, replacement of the windows, thermal insulation of the external walls, replacement of lighting with energy-efficient. The air conditioning system will also be upgraded by building a new one with the possibility of quick and effective warming and cooling of the hall. Repair of the ice rink and boards will be done in accordance with the safety requirements for short-track and hockey riders. Within the framework of the renovation will be renovated the dressing rooms, the lobby and the corridors to the main and small halls of the Winter Palace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to reply. Please, Mr. Chenchev, within 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u67	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, you haven't answered whether the land status under the Palace has been resolved before investing in its renovation. I didn't hear from you what deadlines you set for the repair. The land under the Palace, as far as we know, is owned by the Ministry of Education and Science. In this sense, what dialogue are you in with the Minister of Education and Science and with the regional government, of course? And a question which I also think is important for Bulgarian citizens: how does the Ministry plan to develop mass sport in the sports facility in the Palace of Sports? We're interested in deadlines, of course. As I said at the beginning, however, February 2018 begins the Winter Games, we have secured everything for the preparation of Bulgarian winter sports. Thank you for your attention. Once again, I hope there are no such major pauses in a time-distance of June 21st, two months, perhaps, of course, and because of the vacation it has dragged on, but we have waited a month and a half for an answer on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u68	You have the opportunity for a douche, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u69	Dear Mr. Chenchev, the delay in the answer was because the line of ministers for answers for parliamentary control was quite large and I was out of order. The delay wasn't my fault. Anyway. Of course, the schedule.. within 6 months this thing can be done. He's agreed with all the feds so they don't get in the way of the preparations. This is mainly about the Skating Federation, because shortstroke has a chance to win quotas for the Olympics. Everything's agreed with them. We've been in very intense conversations about the land since the previous term. At the moment, the decision is in the hands of the district government. We have an understanding with the Ministry of Education and Science that the land should be transferred to the Ministry of Youth and Sports, so that only then can we predict more serious repair activities related to the Winter Palace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u70	Thank you, Mr. Kralev. This was the minister of youth and sport who ended up answering today. We continue with a reply by Lilyana Pavlova. Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018. We start with two questions to which there will be a common answer. The first question is from the MP Velislava Ivanova Krasteva on the location of the meetings held during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018. The second question for a common answer is a question from the MP Pavel Alexeev Hristov concerning the holding of events within the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018. Here you are to ask the first question, Mrs. Krasteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, on 11 July 2017 during the meeting of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances in the expenditure of funds allocated to the National Palace of Culture for the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, you told the MPs the following: This means that all official meetings of the European Council, all formal meetings of the Councils of Ministers and all over 300 working groups will be held during the Bulgarian Presidency or over 1500 meetings will be held in Brussels, Luxembourg and when we participate in the European Parliament in Strasbourg. In this regard, I ask you to answer: which state body and what chronology has the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union agreed on behalf of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018 to be a Brussels-based Presidency? Please also answer me if this decision is final and what were the arguments for this choice? I would also like to know whether other authorities of the state have been consulted, which are directly or indirectly affected by adverse effects under the so-called "Rural-based Presidency', such as local authorities, employers' organisations, business forums and other Bulgarian stakeholders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Krasteva. People's representative Paul Hristov will ask the next question before the general answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u73	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Pavlova! My question is linked again to the European Presidency next year and, in fact, by stepping on your words, the Brussels-based Presidency. I ask you to interpret in more detail what this means, to present a detailed calendar under the Presidency's programme for next year and in the specifics how and what events will take place in Bulgaria? In particular, I am interested as a Member of the National Assembly elected by Varna, how many and what events are planned from this calendar to be held on the territory of the district of Varna? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u74	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer to both questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u75	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Krasteva, Mrs. Hristov! I begin with Mrs. Krasteva's reply on terminology and on what you correctly quoted as my statement about exactly how the Bulgarian Presidency was planned as part of the trio of the rotating Presidency, which are together with Estonia and Austria, in which Bulgaria participates and which we should take on formally from 1 January 2018. Firstly, I would like to point out once again that the term "Brussels-based Presidency" is a terminology which mainly concerns the model of functioning of a Presidency, the model of coordination of functions that the country's rotating President has to perform under his commitment. One important clarification. It is important that I clarify what you have quoted from my previous speech that it is not a matter of a decision of the rotating President State, of the Member State, of the sole or by some special act of decision to say exactly what the Presidency will be, because we still have to comply with common practice and rules. According to common practice and rules, with the increase in the number of EU member states, ever since they become 18 and this is the Treaty of Nice, it is decided that, due to the large number of EU member states, to facilitate this process, especially to reduce the costs of holding these presidencies, all official meetings begin to take place in Brussels. I am talking about the formal meetings of the European Council and the Council of Ministers. Later on, and in the Lisbon Treaty, it is very clear that Bulgaria has signed this Lisbon Treaty, that all the Council of the European Union, where we take over the Presidency, is in Brussels and all the formal meetings of the Council and the Council of Ministers' Councils are held in Brussels and three times a year in Luxembourg. So from 2003, to this day, these are almost 15 years old, the presidencies are held on this principle. To clarify that with regard to the Brussels-based yes, we have decided as a principle and not as a formal act of decision, namely because all the meetings of the Council, the formal meetings of the European Council are held in Brussels, as well as of the Council's subsidiary bodies, which are 300 and Bulgaria is chairing them. All working groups and all committees are chaired by Bulgaria and we will post permanently in Brussels, based in Brussels, all Bulgarian representatives at all levels of interest and excellence, who will be presidents and vice-presidents of all the Council bodies, which Bulgaria will lead and chair during the six-month rotating presidency and not on the principle of being based in Sofia and travelling to Brussels permanently. This makes it very easy for the coordination process, the process of work and that is precisely for this purpose, with a decision as early as 2015, there have been 1500 people who will work and who are the experts who have been trained and continue their trainings. They will hold and fulfil the commitment of the Bulgarian Presidency as heads, presidents and vice-presidents of all subsidiary bodies of the Council, of all bodies of the Council, of all committees and committees, and these are 1500 people. Of these, 200 people are constantly based in Brussels in our permanent representation in Brussels, and these people will live there permanently during the Presidency and from there will chair all the meetings. There is no change in this concept, and it is not an extraordinary decision that would, in some form, damage our country. On the contrary, this contributes, firstly, to making operational, horizontal coordination between experts on the ground with other member states, to communicate, to coordinate their positions, and this also facilitates from the point of view of budget spending when they are constantly based there. Apart from that, the remaining 1,300 Bulgarian experts, designated and trained to engage, to work specifically and specifically under the Presidency, will do their work here in Sofia, in the process of drafting positions and analysis of regulations, analysis of changes, coordination of all the mandates that we will give from now on to vote and lead these meetings, and the creation of positions where we need to compromise. However, we must be neutral and impartial President, on the one hand, but on the other hand, Bulgaria cannot miss the chance and opportunity to defend or disagree, if necessary, on certain decisions taken in the subsidiary bodies or at the level of ministers. Perhaps I should extend the answer to Mr. Christov's question, but also to what Mrs. Krasteva asks. I can say that it has already been distributed and adopted by the Council of Ministers and a calendar of the meetings to be held in Bulgaria and in Brussels. If we compare it with the current Estonian or the previous Maltese Presidency, I can say that even Bulgaria has placed a more ambitious programme of events that will take place in Bulgaria, especially with a main focus and centre in Sofia, as in Brussels the meetings are always around 1500 They are so planned during Estonian, so were they during the Maltese and previous presidencies, so we are also planning about 1500 meetings to be held in Brussels. Unlike the other rotating presidents, in Bulgaria we will hold about 237. At least at the moment 237 are the meetings that we will hold in Bulgaria, of which meetings at the highest level at the level of prime ministers and heads of state, at the level of ministers are 32 and the other meetings are at the level of principals, directors, heads of departments or expert meetings, which will be held mainly in Sofia. Some of them will, of course, be held outside Sofia. Specially for Varna I can specify in response to Mr. Hristov in Varna we have planned four official meetings and a rather called training course. In Varna are scheduled an informal meeting of the Working Group "Competitiveness and Growth", the Education Committee an important topic, as well as meetings in the portfolio "Tourism" in the Annual General Assembly of the European Judicial Training Network, etc.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u76	Time, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u77	The calendar is available, it is on our site, I can provide a detailed calendar of all events accepted at the time. I hope that's why I basically gave the framework to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u78	You'll continue in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u79	I can fill in if there are any further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u80	Thank you. Mrs. Krasteva, you have the opportunity to make a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u81	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I wish I could say I'm satisfied with the answer, only it's very difficult to find a word for it. To tell you the truth, adding that today Mr. Tsvetanov said here that we will host six meetings, I notice a very interesting trend towards constantly reducing the number of meetings at which Bulgaria will host. By admiring your efforts to end the NDK affair, I am not sure why the government has already allocated 50 million for this Presidency, which they could use, for example, for the Christmas pensions of the pensioners for all pensioners of BGN 250. If it is true what Mr. Tsvetanov said that there will be six official meetings, one of them we found out will be at the National Theatre Ivan Vazov, it turns out that each meeting will cost the Bulgarian taxpayers 10 million. Correct me if I'm wrong. And in conclusion, with regard to the political effect and the lost benefits for Bulgaria during the Presidency, I will rephrase the words of an American political scientist who gives advice to the American presidents, he says so: "If you haven't found your place at the table, you've probably become part of the menu. Unfortunately, with your attitude towards the Presidency you give Bulgaria the unhappy position of the province.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u82	That was Mrs. Krasteva's line. Mr. Christov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u83	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Pavlova, from what I've heard, unlike the previous one, I'm satisfied. I am not satisfied only that there was no opportunity to share a little more in terms of the programme, because the opposition in its attempts to provoke, almost pervert a common European practice into something vicious Bulgarian, there was no time left to discuss what the meetings were. But the satisfaction for me mostly comes from the fact that the meetings you quoted, specifically for the region of Varna, are tailored to the regional specifics and topics. I believe that the Council of Ministers is conducting well-planned preparations for the Presidency. Everything you have shared so far, I think will lead us to a successful Presidency. The programme is actually ambitious, but I hope it will be well implemented in a 100% dimension. If you have the opportunity to share more details in the reply under the programme as well, as it has become clear, a common European practice for holding the Presidency, as in recent weeks of provocations, there has been no room left to speak in the specifics on these topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u84	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Minister Pavlova, please come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Krasteva, it seems to me that you have a bit of a coup d'état interpreting statements this morning. So I would like to make a precise clarification. As I just said, in Bulgaria, according to the approved calendar with a decision of the Council of Ministers, it is also public, 237 meetings will be held, not 6. Of these 237 meetings in Bulgaria, six meetings from the so-called "parliamentary dimension." So also in the Bulgarian Presidency, outside the official meetings of the Councils of Ministers, European Councils and other accompanying bodies and committees, and committees of the Council, there is always a parliamentary dimension. As part of this parliamentary dimension in Bulgaria, we will hold six meetings for which you will have a commitment to participate and hold these six meetings. I want to be correct once again in numbers and numbers, but I think it is more important, thank Mr. Hristov, that we speak on the substance of these meetings. The number is not important, although, as I said, Bulgaria is betting a much higher number of meetings to be held. During the Estonian Presidency, high-level meetings are around 20, at the Maltese "16," we have 32 at the highest level. The number of events in our country is quite large, quite ambitious. That's my concern, maybe we should think about optimizing them. Regarding what Mr. Hristov asked additionally, besides in Varna and other cities there are planned accompanying events as part of the presidency in Burgas, Veliko Tarnovo, Plovdiv, Stara Zagora, as well as in the smaller settlements there are a number of accompanying events. Especially in Varna, given Varna as our sea capital, two events in the field of tourism are very important. One is a meeting on tourism and the second is the meeting of tourism ministers across the Black Sea region. An important topic as part of Bulgaria's priorities in this direction. Also, the meetings of the sector "Education" as we spoke more than once at the preliminary talks, a meeting in Varna and Varna region. Education is an important priority. Education not only at national level as a policy, but also in the region has its priority. This is why part of the meetings in the sector "Education" for discussion of the priorities at a common European level in this direction will be held in Varna. I hope the contribution of the academic community there has its additional effect on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u86	Thank you, Minister Pavlova, for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with questions to Boil Banov.. Minister of Culture. The first question is from the MP Kristina Maximova Sidorova on measures to improve the methodology for redistribution of the state subsidy to the Chitalishtes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Banov, the irregularities in the activity and communication between the Chitalishtes and the institutions in the municipality of Dryanovo, Gabrovo District, date back many years. Their main problems arise from the failure to apply the methodology under which the State subsidy is allocated. By his order the mayor of the municipality appoints a temporary commission under art. 23 of the Law on People's Chitalishtes with members of one representative of each Chitalishte and one representative of the municipality, who has to develop criteria and methodology for the allocation of the subsidy. This committee must work under the conditions of operational autonomy and equal treatment of each member. In practice, however, the Law on People's Chitalishtes is not respected and the Mayor of Dryanovo through his representative imposes an allocation which was carried out without argument, without compliance with the criteria that the mechanism approved by the Ministry of Culture in 2015. De facto they take over the functions of the Commission and impose their subjective distribution. The problems of distribution are also deepened by the existence of newly established and non-working community centers in almost deserted villages. The only purpose with which they are registered is to vote in the Commission and receive funds without fulfilling their obligations under the Law. In the last year there were four such community centers created in villages with residents under 20 people. Due to the opaque distribution of funds in 2014 and 2015, there were cases brought by the People's Chitalishte of Dryanovska Rush and a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court which annulled the decisions of the Temporary Commission under art. 23 for the subsidy allocation. It seems that the established methodology for the allocation of the state subsidy does not work because it is recommended, without clear control and creates conditions for tension and enforcement of violations. In this regard, I would like to ask you: what is your attitude towards this problem? Will you take measures to improve the methodology by which the state funds from municipalities are being redistributed to Chitalishtes?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Here you are, dear Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u89	Mrs. President, Members of Parliament, Mrs. Sidorova! I share the view that there are currently alarming signals related to the distribution of the state subsidy to Chitalishtes in individual settlements and municipalities of the country. The problem is important and the Ministry of Culture deals with due attention and concern. We note that this is not only about taking measures to improve the functioning mechanism, but there are also prerequisites for initiating a broad discussion among the various stakeholders involved in the development of the Chitalishte activity. At the same time, interaction and cooperation are needed between the Chitalishtes themselves and between the Chitalishtes and municipalities. Evidence of the above is also the case quoted by you with a Chitalishte in the municipality of Dryanovo, Gabrovo district. This conflict of personality has become institutional. The dispute between the various Chitalishtes and representatives of the local authorities has already been brought to court. All this happens at a time when we encourage partnership and sharing resources to achieve socially significant objectives for the benefit of local communities. These findings of yours are ours, and we are very worried about them. We have been aware of the conflicts and problems that have arisen since the moment of their occurrence in Dryanovo Municipality. In due course, according to our competences, we have taken different steps. One of them was the introduction in 2015 of new Guidelines on the activity of the committees which distributed the annual state subsidy to the Chitalishtes under art. 23 of the People's Chitalishtes Act. With the introduction of these Guidelines, the Ministry of Culture aims to encourage the work of the Chitalishtes in a network, to create a link with municipal and regional administrations and the adequacy of the measures taken at national level. A new information card was introduced in this year in order to ensure transparency of the activities of the People's Chitalishtes and the connection with the state and municipal subsidy they receive, which each community center completes and sends to the Ministry of Culture. The map is public, visible, in the official register of community centers and Chitalishte associations. In this way, any activity developed and declared by the Chitalishte Board can be verified on the spot. The map also enables the Chitalishtes to present a variety of services and activities to attract new users. The introduction of these two documents, observations and analyses of their implementation aim precisely at taking measures to update and improve the methodology by which state and municipal funds are allocated to the Chitalishtes. On the part of the Ministry of Culture I declare once again our readiness for dialogue and partnership with the entire Chitalishte network and all involved in the development of Chitalishte activities institutions and organizations. We rely on your support, which I appreciate as important and timely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u90	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u91	Dear Mr. Banov, thank you for your answer. Just a few things I'd like to fill out. The methodology has been in place since 2015, but it is not mandatory. In many municipalities it does not apply and the fact that it does not apply, has no control over it and there are no penalties for not being applied. Otherwise, the methodology in itself is good, but when you do not apply it, the allocation of the subsidy is done in the way in the municipality of Dryanovo. I hope that you will continue to work to solve the case in Dryanovo Municipality, because there the work of the large Chitalishtes is really blocked and I hope that measures will be taken to limit the Chitalishtes-fantoms, because this is indeed a huge problem at the moment and the Chitalishtes-fantoms, which on maps declare activity, but in fact this activity is a collection of name days and long tables. This is not the activity inherent in the Chitalishtes and which is recorded in the Law. So I hope that both the Ministry and the Committee on Culture in the National Assembly will continue to work to improve the methodology and that, indeed, from the new year, there will be a transparent methodology that is respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u93	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u94	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u95	Thank you. Once again, just to make it clear that by law we can give methodical instructions. I think we work with all our responsibility to improve them and create conditions for normal work. Within the framework of the Law, which is at the moment, we cannot carry out the control that we need to know. People rely heavily on the Ministry of Culture to intervene in certain situations. We don't have that kind of authority. We are willing to work on improving the Law. We also hope for your support for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u96	There is a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev about spending the planned funds for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House. I have asked questions regarding the preparation of the main building of the National Palace of Culture for the needs of the Bulgarian Presidency. By the way, Minister, the fate of these questions is a little complicated. The first question I asked Mr. Tomislav Donchev in the past National Assembly was not answered. Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova is no longer answering. After all, with the decision of the Bulgarian government on 28 June you are a representative of the state. I wish you more time to be responsible for the National Palace of Culture, but know that one of the main functions and activities that should have been carried out in order to prepare the building is precisely the issue of the building documentation, the development of ideas and work projects. From the information provided in the committee already established, which dealt with the case NDK, it became clear that there was total chaos on this issue. Several facts I will quote from the report of the Directorate of National Building Control (National Construction Control), which, you know, carried out a check on the activities of the National Palace of Culture in preparation of the Presidency. It is clear from this report that as early as 6 June 2016. The Directorate-General for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population is providing concrete opinions on the basis of research of an architectural project and takes the view that it is essential to define the rules applicable to the construction and the rules for ensuring fire safety is a clear definition of which of the activities fall within the scope of art. 151 of the LU and for whom you know that there is no need for construction papers and coordination, authorisation and for which it is necessary. You also know very well that there are activities, construction works, which are a fourth category and the Law on Construction on the territory says that construction papers should be issued for them. From the paperwork we've been looking at up to now, it's become clear that there's no such type of approved building paper. Therefore, my question to you at the moment is as follows: has there already been a building permit and approved documentation for this?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u98	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Minister Banov, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u99	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Boychev! The working project for the implementation of the National Palace of Culture was approved by the main architect of Sofia Arch. Zdravko Zdravkov on 25 August this year. Regarding the issued and necessary building permits, subject to the contract for design, reconstruction and adaptation of the main building of the National Palace of Culture for the needs of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018, there is also ongoing renovation of the main building of the National Palace of Culture. Under the legislation in force, it is not necessary to issue a building permit. For the activities for which a construction permit is required under the Law on Construction is required, an application on 6 July 2017 was submitted for coordination: investment project for construction, renovation of kitchen, floor 70 and kitchen to the restaurant on the 80th floor in the main building of the National Palace of Culture. Building permit was granted on 1 August of this year. An investment project for construction has also been introduced to change the purpose of technical premises on the 80 floor in bathrooms. Building permit was granted on August 1st of this year. An investment project has also been introduced for construction supplication of irrigation and suction chambers to halls 7, 8 and 9 with new suction chambers; replacement of circulators; replacement of existing air conditioning chambers; renewal of heating and cooling systems; replacement of water pipes; replacement of sewers, vertical; separation of the water supply system of drinking and fire. Building permit was granted on 23 August this year. In respect of copyrights. Before the start of the construction and repair activities, an examination and expertise was carried out on the state of the works of art, on the basis of which a plan was made and measures were taken to preserve them, in view of their specifics. The mural decorations of the wood carvings and brass panels are secured with protective coatings. The rest of the art works, such as textile panels and larger paintings, have been dismantled and stored in suitable premises until repairs have been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u100	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, thank you for the information that has been provided. It makes it clear that the construction permit was issued on August 25th. The 14-day period for appeal and entry into force of the authorisation has not yet passed. I hope everything's gonna be okay. You can see when the building permit was issued. It is no coincidence that I have asked this question so long ago, and my request is that you draw the necessary conclusions: who are the responsible persons to come to this situation. An exceptional national priority for securing the conduct of the Bulgarian Presidency. A major political objective which we have discussed here today and it is evident that the elementary things with which the reconstruction of a building is initiated, such as the approval, the preparation of the construction papers and their coordination are carried out literally at the end of August, when the repairs should have been completed. You see the first stage when the approval documents were submitted to Sofia Municipality. I can read you the first letter of April 2017 of Sofia's chief architect, who returns and refuses approval of the submitted projects with the following remarks: there is no coordination with the fire department, opinion and attached emergency-evacuation plan. And, notice, the attached design documentation in Part "Architecture" is completely unclear. This is the first refusal of the chief architect of Sofia Municipality. I do not think that it is appropriate for the National Palace of Culture to approach this in such an irresponsible way. Thank you for the information you provided about the preservation of these works of art. There really is, you know, a lot of artwork and part of my question to you was whether all the conservation measures were taken for these works of art. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. A hole, Mr. Secretary? Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u103	Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Boychev! What I can guarantee, and it is visible, is that all remarks, by the way and not only of these issues, but also of many other NDK related within these months and 20 days in which it is with us, are either cleared or cleaned up so that they have a legitimate, clear and firm form. That's my guarantee.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u104	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the third question to the Minister of Culture Mr. Boyl Banov. He is from the Parliamentary Representative Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev on the preparation of the National Palace of Culture for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u105	Madam President, Minister. One of the major issues beyond building preparation was also about the funds needed for this preparation. You know the scandal, the temporary parliamentary committee was dealing with this issue. A number of facts have become clear on the question I have asked from there. There has been a decision by the Council of Ministers once since August 2016, granting 17 million. BGN, and the second decision of the Council of Ministers of June 2017, granting an additional 28 million. lv. The Parliamentary Commission has listened to the new executive director you have appointed and it has become clear that 3 million. 569 thousand. lv. are spent on activities that do not concern the preparation for the Bulgarian Presidency, it is kind of out of the target of these funds. My question is: from here on, how will this deficit be overcome, Minister? We mean that these funds are spent on activities that are beyond this preparation. Have the additional contracts already been concluded supplied to the main contracts for construction installation and to the contract for the supply of equipment? We were then reported to be at the stage of prior coordination of these supplementary financing contracts by 50%. Are they signed? My other question is: will these funds from the Council of Ministers be sufficient to carry out all construction and installation activities in preparation of the National Palace of Culture? The other thing I would like to make clear from today's hearing is: the first deadline was September month, you know, was extended to October. You can now commit yourself to a deadline during which the construction works will be completed and the main building of the National Palace of Culture will be ready to take over the events of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u107	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Boychev, first of all, I would like to make an important statement. The question that I have, I will read it because you are asking me further questions that I can answer right now, but the responsibility that I have in front of you requires me to use accurate data and figures. The question I have, you will tell me, if there is any mistake, is: What funds are planned for the reconstruction of the main building of the National Palace of Culture to secure the presidency of the main events of the Bulgarian Presidency of the European Union in 2018? How many of them and when they were transferred to the NPC with 17 million allocated targets for repairs. lv. with the PMS of 3 August 2016; are other activities such as electricity, heat supply, wages, etc. paid? That is, my answer is structured and I am prepared to answer that question. I'm not running away from other answers. I think the regulation requires that I have them in order to be supported by figures so that I am not naked and inaccurate. So I'm ready next time to answer. I will now answer these questions. Council of Ministers Decree No 193 of 1 August 2016 approved changes in the budget of the Council of Ministers for 2016 in connection with an increase in the capital of the National Palace of Culture. lv. Decision of the Council of Ministers No 641 of 3 August gave consent to increase the capital of the National Palace of Culture lv. from the budget of the Council of Ministers provided under Decree No 193 of the Council of Ministers of 2016 approving changes in the budget of the Council of Ministers for 2016 in connection with an increase in the capital of a commercial company. By Decree No 109 of the Council of Ministers of 9 June 2017, amendments were approved to the budget of the Ministry for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 for additional payments in the part of the financing of the budget balance at the expense of the central budget of 28 million. lv. for an increase in the capital of the National Palace of Culture Sofia Congress Centre in Sofia in connection with the financial provision of the conversion and adaptation of its main building for the needs of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018. The respective decision of the Council of Ministers No 310 of the same date gives consent to increase the capital of the National Palace of Culture by 28 million. lv. Accordingly, as of 3 August 2017, with the Council of Ministers' decree on the approval of budget changes already of the Ministry of Culture for 2017, in relation to an increase in capital of 28 million. lv. go to the Ministry of Culture. There is also the relevant Decision No 426 of 4 August, where Decision No 310 of the Council of Ministers was amended to increase the capital of the National Palace of Culture On 22 August 2016, the company was transferred 17 million. On 21 August, now, the company was transferred another 16 million. $800,000. BGN, according to Decree No 156 of 3 August 2017 of the Council of Ministers. In view of the issue of allocated targets for repair works, have other activities been paid out by the company in respect of late payments under contracts, including those related to the normal activities of the NDK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u108	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u109	Madam President! Mr. Minister, I understand and I know what question I've asked. Unfortunately, and you know the situation, he was asked to Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova at the time when these facts were not known to the Bulgarian public and to us. Then the parliamentary committee was set up. You participated in a hearing of her work and there a number of my questions became a fact. But I think the National Palace of Culture as a problem is daily on your attention. It's hardly information that you don't have, so I took the liberty of expanding the issue with more current things to date. However, it is important for me to make a few things clear today. First, the comments on the lack of investment control and construction supervision to verify the quantity and quality of activities carried out on the basis of which it is being paid, has it already been overcome at the time at which you have committed to be responsible for the NDK? This is very important given the responsibility we all have for spending budgetary resources. And the other is in a hearing in this Commission you have stated that there is some delay and suspension of some of the construction works due to the lack of approved building permits. You said that construction works, this is a month seven when you were heard in the Commission, were completed at 60%. Therefore, I wish that you would tell the Bulgarian Parliament today what stage the construction activities are at and will they be able to complete until the Bulgarian Presidency is prepared, as I also see from the Public Procurement Agency that there are pre-negotiations, the uniform homogeneous security system has already been awarded? I suppose you are aware of the deadlines for carrying out all these activities. I think the issue is important enough and important enough to get information from Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Mr. Minister, for the doppelganger within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u111	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Boychev! Investor supervision already exists. Contracts have been concluded, as is the law's order, he acts. There's construction supervision. Everything concerning the legality and the necessary organisational structures in the NPC has been created. The security contract, if I'm not mistaken, I think it's being concluded today. Last building supervision, together with the builder specify the quantities and parameter for the additional agreements. You know he's limited. So there is, perhaps within days, the announcement of the additional agreements that concern the technique, the part of the Dinacord, and the construction and installation works. That's all I can say right now. We're on schedule. I can't help but notice these delays. They are natural in view of the permissions you see that some of them were obtained literally days ago. But we're still within normal deadlines, and we'll complete all activities in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u112	Thank you, dear Minister. Let's get to the last question. He is from Lyubomir Boykov Bonev on measures for the conservation, storage and development of the Ancient Complex, including the "Kula" complex, the "Chram-Kladenets" and the "Romanska Banya" located near the village of Gurlo, the municipality of Breznik, Pernik district. Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u113	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The Garlen temple-warenec is an archaeological site dating back to the late Bronze Age, located north of the village of Gerlo, Pernik region. The object is an underground vault hall built above a well to which staircases lead. In the process of exposing it in 1980 specialists from the Institute for Cultural Monuments held restoration. In 2012, a group of astroarcheologists, geophysicists and scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and several other districts made an inventory of the temple-warehouse to complement the expert opinion on its purpose. Unfortunately, the visit of scientists has nothing to do with protecting this unique prehistoric facility. As of the summer of 2017 the state of the unique archaeological site is bad. He is constantly visited by treasure hunters who destroy him in their attempts to find valuable artifacts. On the site there are no permanent guards, employees responsible for managing the site, or video surveillance. The protection of the facility is important for protecting the object from treasure raids and securing its restraint in this respect. Mr. Minister, according to data from the National Register of Real Cultural Values by Protocol No 37 of 2013 of the Specialized Expert Council for the Protection of Real Cultural Values of the Ancient Complex near the village of Gurlo is granted the status of real estate cultural property with the category. In this regard, my question to you is: what measures will you take for the conservation, storage and development of the antique complex, including the temple-warenets and the Roman baths located in the village of Gurlo, the municipality of Breznik, Pernik district?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u114	Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u115	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bonev, in response to your question, I inform you of the following: in 2012 the Ministry of Culture financed the development of an update of a project for a protective building and a project for conservation, restoration with technologies and exposition for the site of the megalithic temple-warenets at the village of Gurlo, Breznik municipality worth 6300 BGN. In May 2013, the Ministry agreed with the draft draft, stating that all construction and conservation-restation works should be carried out in the presence of a competent archaeologist. On 24 July 2014 a contract was concluded between the Ministry of Culture and the municipality of Breznik for building a protective building and conservation of the Megalite temple. lv. According to the contract concluded, the Ministry of Culture transferred on 5 August 2014 to an account of the municipality of Breznik an amount of 35 thousand. lv. By letter dated 29 October 2014, the municipality of Breznik requested an extension of the duration of the contract by one year due to the inability to fulfil the activities provided for therein as a result of a destroyed infrastructure. In view of the inability to comply with the contract activities, the Ministry of Culture has notified in writing the Mayor of Breznik Municipality that there is no legal basis for extending the contract and the municipality of Breznik has reimbursed the advance provided to the Ministry in full. In order to assist the Ministry of Culture for the conservation of real estate cultural value, the municipality of Breznik can again apply for the allocation of funds under the Programme "Conservation of cultural heritage" under the terms and conditions of the rules for the selection of sites and the definition of activities for the provision of targeted financial support in the area of conservation and restoration of real cultural values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u116	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, I took the liberty of going to the site this summer. The shelter and everything made by the municipality of Breznik are in a miserable state. I mean, the shed is completely destroyed, the monument is destroyed, there's still no video surveillance, no physical security at the site. It is a separate matter that there is no technical access to the object. Transport infrastructure has been completely disrupted. It's coming through the dam's safe zone. "Beautiful," power supply town of Breznik. I think it's only right for the Ministry to step into its role and take urgent measures. I don't think the city is leading this case. Whatever it takes, we'll help the mayor and us to make things happen. Again, if urgent measures are not taken to protect the site, this monument, which has survived for so many years, the only one of its kind in the country, I would say in Europe, is about to be completely destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u118	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u119	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bonev, we are ready to finance. We have programs to finance. The object is important and is of national importance, but there must be a way there for this funding to happen. If the municipality doesn't do the infrastructure, what do we do? Should we fly over there? We are ready to cooperate, and such cooperation has been given. Funds have been provided. Four years since then, the money has been returned, but there hasn't been infrastructure for four years. I can come with you and talk to the mayor, look for ways. I can't finance the infrastructure, but I can help us look for solutions in this direction. Problems are interrelated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u120	Thank you, dear Minister. This was the last question to the Minister of Culture Mr. Boyl Banov. Let's thank him for today's participation in parliamentary control. We are going through with questions to Minister Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water. The first question is from the MP Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva on the readiness of the Black Sea treatment plants for the summer tourist season. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u121	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The construction of environmental infrastructure in the country is an undisputed priority of the governments led by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. In 2015 and 2016 alone, 51 sewage treatment plants were put into operation. The efforts were also made to ensure the necessary infrastructure providing settlements along the Black Sea coast. Nearly 350 million. lv. they were invested in our cleaner sea. Six treatment plants were built on the Black Sea coast. Three of them are all-new "Sozopol," which also serves Chernomorets, the Burgas districts of Gorno Ezerovo, as well as the mineral baths of Banevo and Vetren. Three other treatment plants were reconstructed and upgraded in Pomorie, the Ravda-Nessebar treatment plant, as well as Varna - The Acacias. In addition, two other treatment facilities were built in the Black Sea region All these treatment plants fully comply with environmental legislation and comply with the requirements of the Urban Waste Water Directive and the Bathing Water Directive. The purification of nitrogen and phosphorus is provided, which is required and has a deep water discharge. Over 230 km of sewerage and 142 km of plumbing were built. The benefits for human health, environmental protection and the development of economic activities, including tourism, fisheries and aquaculture in the regions with this infrastructure, are undeniable. Dear Minister, on 1 and 2 June you and the Minister of Tourism Mrs. Nikolina Angelkova carried out joint checks on the readiness of the treatment plants on the Black Sea coast in connection with the start of the tourist season. What are the results of the checks carried out and the subsequent results of the mobile joint groups of the two departments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u122	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. For an answer, the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov. Here you go. You have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Vasileva! It is a fact that significant progress has been made in 2015 and 2016. Many treatment stations have been completed. They definitely gave a new quality of life, especially at the Black Sea coast. On 1 and 2 June there was a joint inspection. I visited the treatment plants in Varna, Sozopol, Lozenets, Golden Sands and Ravda. The checks we have carried out together with the regional environmental inspections, the Swimming Directorate in the Black Sea region and the Ministry of Tourism show readiness of the treatment plants for the summer tourist season. Moreover, according to my Order of 31 May 2017, in addition to the planned control checks, we are carrying out exceptional checks on all sites of potential pollutants on the Black Sea. The subject of increased control are both regulated waste water sources and production sites as well as uncontrolled waste water discharges from temporary moving sites near the sea and sea beaches. Specifically, for every station I've visited, allow me to make a few notes. The waste water treatment plant in Varna purifies the waste water from the city of Varna, the city of Aksakovo, the town of Ignatevo, the village of Kamenar, the village of Topoli, the village of Ezerovo and works with facilities for biological purification and additional purification of nitrogen and phosphorus after the implementation of reconstruction and modernization with funds under Operational Program. The Purification Station in Golden Sands purifies the waste water from Golden Sands, the local institution of Alen Mack. "Tchaika" and Holiday Club "Riviera" and operates with biological purification facilities. In order to remove the biogenic elements nitrogen and phosphorus, design documentation for reconstruction and modernisation of the treatment plant was prepared in 2015. On 13 February 2017, a contract was concluded with the municipality of Varna and 24 million were provided. Three hundred thousand. lv. without VAT from Operational Programme "Environment." An additional load of 72 thousand is envisaged. equivalent residents during the summer months and 18 thousand. equivalent residents during the winter period and partial construction and reconstruction and rehabilitation of the sewerage network in the settlement institution. A deep water discharge of purified waste water has also been built. The cleaning station in Nessebar - Sunny Beach - Ravda purifies the waste water from Nessebar, sq. The village of Ravda, village of Vlas, village of Tunkovo and village of Kosharitsa. Extensions, reconstruction and modernization of the sewerage network and the treatment plant were carried out. The working maximum has a capacity of 220 thousand. equivalent residents with biological purification and additional purification of nitrogen and phosphorus and a deep water discharge of nearly 2.5 km into the sea has been carried out. In the village of Tunkovo is built a sewer system, covered are all domestic fecal waters, brought to the sewer pump station in the village of Tunkovo, where they are referred to the treatment plant in the village of Ravda. The activities are financed again under Operational Programme "Environment 2007" For the treatment plant in Sozopol. The waste water is purified from the sewerage system of Sozopol, Chernomorets and Ravadinovo through biological purification and additional nitrogen and phosphorus. A deep-water discharge of purified waters with money and funds under the Operational Programme "Environment" 2007-2013 was also implemented. For the village of Lozenets. There is built a containment tank funded by the PDOOS, which actually solved the problem of insufficient capacity of the treatment plant. As a consequence, in 2016 the area of Lozenets was requalified and complies with the requirements of Regulation No 5 for water quality management.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u124	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mrs. Vassileva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u125	Thank you. Dear Minister, thank you for your information. I am satisfied with the information that you have presented, which clearly shows that the effect of the investments has and it is visible. I thank you, the whole government, for continuing your efforts to build infrastructure in places that need complementary facilities or expansion of the network. I hope that the Golden Sands and Primorsko projects will be successfully completed within the deadline. I'm sure you'll be watching this. I would also like to thank you personally for the commitment you made to finding the necessary means to build treatment facilities and in smaller settlements, including Ahtopol and Sinemorets, which are in the Burgas constituency. I also wish success with regional pre-investment studies, which will be the basis of major regional projects during the second programming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u126	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. For the coat, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Vasileva, we will really try to keep up the pace that was imposed during the Operational Programme 2007 - 2013, respectively the beginning of the current Operational Programme. The fact is that attention should be paid and we have had talks with you and about smaller settlements, of course, not only on the Black Sea coast, but especially considering the importance of the tourist season. So I hope with joint efforts that we can achieve an effect there and continue the development of infrastructure. Indeed, the Operational Programme 2016 "Environment 2020" provides about a billion and a half to consolidated water companies so that the construction process can continue at the same pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u128	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MP Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov regarding the possibilities for management and management by the municipality of Troyan of mineral water deposits in Chiflik village, Shipkovo village, Troyan municipality, Lovech district. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u129	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! On the territory of the municipality of Troyan, Lovech district are Acted as exclusive state-owned deposits of mineral waters as follows: Chiflik village of one mineral spring, Shipkovo village of five. Paragraph 133 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Water Act allows the Minister of Environment and Water to provide free of charge for the management and use of the respective municipalities for a period of 25 years from the entry into force of the Law, the mineral waters from fields under Annex 2 to art. 14, p. 2, of which are not granted: concessions for mineral water extraction and no applications for mineral water concessions have been submitted; permits for drinking water water management of more than one municipality; permits for use of more than 51 per cent of the established operating resources of the field. Our questions to you are as follows: firstly, are there applications submitted from 1 January 2011 to the moment by the Municipality of Troyan for the provision of mineral waters for free management and use from the above fields and, if any, what are the reasons for refusal? Secondly, are there any other applications submitted again from the same date as at 1 January 2011 to the present time for the granting of concessions for mineral waters from the abovementioned fields and, if any, to which of them, following studies carried out on a proposal from the Minister of the Environment has decided to refuse or initiate preparatory actions to grant a concession? If actions to grant a concession or concessions are initiated, at what stage are they located? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u130	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Mr. Minister, please come in for three minutes for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u131	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mrs. Naydenova, Dear Mr. Nedyalkov. In 2011 the municipality of Troyan expressed its desire to acquire a right for the free management and use of mineral water fields of Shipkovo, Shipkovo village and locality of Chiflik, Chiflik village of Lovech district, with a period of 25 years. The Ministry of Environment and Water has notified the Municipality of Troyan of the inability to provide a site for the following reasons. The locality "Chiflika" does not meet the requirements for the provision described in the Water Act, as it is granted permission to use more than 51 percent of the established operating resources of the field. The locality of Shipkovo is also not eligible for the provision described in the Water Act, since as of 2011, L-2 has provided an active concession for mineral water extraction. The following initiatives under art. 20 of the Law on concessions. In October 2010, an initiative was put in place to grant a concession for drilling No L-37. By order of September 2012, preparatory actions were launched to provide a concession for extraction of mineral water from drilling No L-37. Preparatory action was suspended by order of July 2014 of the Minister of Environment and Water until action was taken to put into operation the first belt of the sanitary security zone of drilling No L-37 or to take action to grant concession from drilling No L-2 after the legal conditions have been fulfilled. Action has been taken by the Swimming Directorate of the Danube Region, as an authority holding and managing the locality of Shipkovo, to prepare documents for the issue of a public state ownership act on the first belt of the sanitary zone and to conduct a procedure for determining the sanitary zone around drilling No L-2. In 2013, an initiative was put in place to grant a concession from drilling No L-2. In the light of the provisions of art. 47, para. 1 of the Water Act, under which only one concession for extraction of mineral water is granted to one concession holder, the procedure for granting a concession for drilling L-2 cannot be opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u132	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Naydenova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u133	Dear Minister, it is a little strange that after Troyan municipality has declared to be given as public municipal property an opportunity for it to win from there, an investor appears. It's okay. This process is too public and transparent, but somehow it is very offensive when private interest blocks the common interest. I don't know exactly who made this request, because the Troyan municipality has repeatedly shown interest in finding out who this source is, I didn't check it, even though I have the right to such information, but I share with you as a citizen of this municipality that I am very sorry and I am insulted that they are not people from the same area, to block something that will be in public interest. I hope this isn't a single system, though. I'm signaling for the other municipalities. I suppose another MP could complain after a while and get very sick about it. I'm just graduating. On TV, an advertising material is currently under way, entitled the South Economic Boom. These are new investments in the municipality of Asenovgrad and other southern cities, but I will not say anything new that the North, consider Northern Bulgaria, catastrophically lag behind in economic terms, breathtaking small municipalities, where financial resources do not reach. I think that you should act as a state official and react positively and promptly to any legal request from municipalities to expand their opportunities for new revenue, including concessions and/or free management and use of mineral waters. God forbid this trial opens up and goes, because I think it's not just Troyan County that counts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u134	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. For the doppelganger, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Naydenova! I fully understand, they are equal and I cannot distinguish between private, municipal and state, but, anyway, the balance between different, especially when it comes to the development of a region, must be sought out and this balance will be sought in the policy of the Ministry of Environment and Water. At this point, there is no such possibility, but I will continue to monitor this process to see if it opens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u136	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question by the National Representative Atanas Petrov Kostadinov is about the actions taken under the Law on responsibility for providing and repairing environmental damage to the owners of dangerous waste tanks located in the former factory. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! By Decree 118 of 22 June 2017, the Council of Ministers granted as additional expenses 15 million 193 thousand BGN, of which 14 million and 400 to the regional governor of Varna for the disposal of hazardous waste private property located in the territory of the former factory. A week later, I asked a question, but the circumstances were so complicated that his answer and debate are now pending. To this end, there is a public procurement, something that does not concern you, insofar as you are not an importer in the Council of Ministers, but is the Minister of Finance. One classic procedure of the five participants four were removed, open is a price of BGN 5455. or between 4 and 5 times more expensive than the expert assessment of what could be done with the necessary money. The State's actions have been taken in relation to the fact that the company "Polymer's company is in bankruptcy and is unable to take preventive measures to secure the hazardous waste located near Devnya. There are, however, quite other circumstances at the date of the provision of state funding. First, the company already has a new owner, vital and second, this order has been ordered by the KPC as unlawful. The same land estate in which hazardous waste is located, including tanks, has been privatized. The new owner of the company is Huss from Plovdiv. At the date of the granting of the state funds of BGN 14 million, as well as at the beginning of the implementation of the contract, MOEW and the respective territorial structures, in the case of RIEW, should have taken action under the Law on Responsibility for the Prevention and Elimination of Environmental Damage, with which to oblige the new owner. Failure to implement the liability law for the prevention and elimination of environmental damage results in damage to taxpayers of BGN 14 million.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u138	To the question!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u139	That's my question to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u140	Thank you. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u141	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kostadinov! In 2013 when carrying out an inspection of the "Polymer" AD, which is in bankruptcy, the district governor of the district administration Varna found a leak of hazardous waste storage facilities. Under the liability law for the prevention and removal of environmental damage, the Regional Inspection in Varna characterizes the case as an imminent threat to environmental damage. Responsible for the removal of the threat is the operator "Polymer" AD. In this regard, the Director of RIEW Varna in March 2013 issued an order for the implementation of preventive measures by Polymers. Following the delivery of the order, the company's trade union shall submit to the Regional Inspection a reasoned opinion that it is not possible to implement the preventive measures imposed. An inspection by the Inspection shall follow, which shall establish that no action has been taken on the execution of the order. In view of this, the Minister of Environment and Water, by order of April 2013, appointed the Regional Governor to be responsible for implementing the measures. It should be borne in mind that the law on liability for the prevention and elimination of environmental damage provides for a mechanism for the recovery by the operator "Polymer" JSC of the costs incurred by the district manager for the implementation of the measures after the measures have been implemented. The Ministry of Environment and Water has repeatedly assisted and provided explanations and instructions to the district governor, including that it should plan in the state budget for the relevant year the funds needed to implement the order. In 2013, the district governor conducted a public procurement contract. A technical assignment and a financial estimate of the costs of implementing the measures was made. Following a request from the governor to the Council of Ministers in July 2014, the Ministry of Interior agreed a draft decision of the Council of Ministers to grant the necessary funds. However, according to information from the district governor, the funds requested have not been entered into the county administration's account. In 2015 the RIEW Varna carried out a check on the site of the Minister's Order in connection with the implementation of the preventive measures. During the verification, no breakthroughs and leakage of chemicals from the tanks were detected. A 24-hour physical security has been found to be ensured, yet the immediate threat to the occurrence of environmental damage has not been eliminated. In October 2016, the district governor of the district of Varna announced a contract for the choice of contractor of the measures. Visible from the website of the KPC, the procedure was appealed, and on 30 May 2017 the KPC was given a decision. In order to ensure the necessary funds for the implementation of the measures, the Government approved additional funds of 14 million at a meeting of the Council of Ministers on 21 June 2017. 402,000. lv. The provision of funds allows immediate action to be taken to address immediate salaries and prevent environmental damage. In conclusion, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Environment and Water has, in a timely manner, taken all the actions provided for by the Law and, in addition, assists the district governor with instructions and clarification on the implementation of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u142	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u143	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable Members! Mr. Minister tracked down the signature chronology, and that's exactly what it is. My claim is that after 14 March 2017, Minister Neno Dimov, when it is the meeting of creditors and the meeting at which the sale is decided, the operation of the Law after that date, of the law on liability for the prevention and elimination of environmental damage already takes effect, there is the addressee of the new owner of this land and of this waste, not the Bulgarian citizens, not the state budget, the Council of Ministers. The strange thing is that one day before the end of the office with Order 76 on 18 April 2017 the office also issued BGN 418 147. in a hypothesis after there is a new owner. Both the Law and the Community Directive 2004/35 clearly states whose responsibility it is in these cases. So this is my thesis after the date 14 March 2017, I can leave you the meeting and the decision of the creditors, with the presence of a new owner there is no other hypothesis than this RIEW to issue a prescription to the new owner soon to remove all potentially threatening population and environment factors. Again, the case with this statement of ours, because we have prepared a signal to the prosecution that the expert and fair price for which there are documents is worth four or five million but are granted 14, this does not concern the activities of the MoEW, but, anyway, in order to operate the state machine effectively, it is normal and good for the institutions to correspond and any new circumstance that appears to be taken into account and to react legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u145	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kostadinov! I would just like to stress once again that the law on liability for the prevention and elimination of environmental damage provides for a mechanism for the recovery of these damage from the operator, i.e. in the case of But in principle, you have reason to say that. However, the issue is in terms of urgency, and the law gives us the opportunity to then look for these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u146	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MPs Andrian Ivanov Raykov and Radostin Radoslavov Tanev on a decision of the European Commission setting new, stricter emission limit values for harmful substances released into the atmosphere by large combustion plants.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! In April 2017, a European Commission Decision setting new, more stringent emission limit values for harmful substances emitted into the atmosphere by large combustion plants was adopted. In this regard, the question to you is: do you think that the newly accepted levels are achievable by the operators and what is the government's position on the subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Rykov. For your answer, Mr. Dimov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u149	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Raykov, Mr. Tanev! The emission levels adopted in the conclusions on the best available technologies for large combustion plants are for the following pollutants:.. sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, dust, mercury, hydrochloric and hydrofluorinated. Our opinion is that, in general, the determined emission levels for nitrogen oxides and dust do not constitute a problem for large combustion plants in the energy complex of Maritsa East. A potential problem is compliance with emission levels for sulphur dioxide due to the nature of local coal, which is characterized by high sulphur content, ash and also low calorific value. After the entry into force of Directive 2010/75/EU on industrial emissions, the Marishka Basin Heat Plants have already used one option to derogate. They have applied to the competent authority and have received a derogation under art. 31 of the Directive, which allows when, because of the quality of local lignite, the rules laid down in the Directive cannot be met, to be applied to a minimum degree of desulfurisation for sulphur dioxide emissions. From 1 January 2016, this degree shall be at least 96% instead of the technically required norm to be achieved in milligrams of a normal cubic meter. However, in the conclusions of best available techniques for these thermal plants, apart from the higher of 97% minimum debulfurisation, there is also an obligation to comply with a sulphur dioxide emission limit value of 320 milligrams per normal cube. 3 feet. In our view, it will be difficult to achieve precisely this norm, defined in milligrams of a normal cube. 3 feet. Since sufficient plausible information on real mercury emissions is not available to date, the sole obligation of the coal-burning operator, including lignite, is currently to measure at least annually the total mercury emissions. We are unable to decide whether achieving the norms of the conclusions will be a problem for the thermal plants. The requirement to measure mercury emissions has been in force since 1 January 2016, which is why the data we have is incomplete for all fuels and it is only appropriate to take measures after fully studying the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u150	Thank you, dear Minister. Come in for a cue, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u151	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable Members! Thank you for your answer, Minister. I have an additional question: is there a risk to the country's energy independence? Is an analysis prepared for the economic and social consequences for Bulgaria at the entry into force of the new norms? Do you have opinions from employers, industry and non-governmental organizations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. For the coat, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u153	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Tanev! In fact, the Ministry of Environment and Water is not what will assess the country's energy security and which will see how the energy sector will develop, it is a basic obligation of the Ministry of Energy. What the Ministry of Environment and Water is doing, and we have made a meeting with the trade unions and with the thermal plants and we are in constant contact with them, is to see how these new requirements that the directive has can be achieved with the minimum financial effect in terms of the social situation in the region. So we are in constant contact, including by clarifying the possibilities of potential future derogations that are given as an option in the new directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u154	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MP Ivelina Vassileva on information about the Black Sea dolphins. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u155	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! The three species of Black Sea dolphins are protected species included in Appendix 3 of the Biodiversity Act. Under the legislation, their disturbance, persecution, capture, killing is prohibited, and the taking of dead specimens is only permitted under a procedure established by the competent authority. Over the past few years, there has been an increase in the number of dead dolphins found along the coast. This caused serious concern among the public and, due to the lack of confirmed scientific opinion, various alleged reasons were launched. A number of measures and initiatives were taken by the Ministry of Environment and Water in 2016 related to raising awareness of assistance to poor cetaceans, as well as in order to coordinate the control and coordination of the actions of all authorities concerned with the problem, including RIEW, Swimming Directorates, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, the IRA, the Institutes of Kinology and Fish Resources at BAS and the municipalities of the Black Sea region. In order to identify the causes of increased mortality, the Ministry is committed to finding suitable bodies to study and organise the autopsy. An Italian scientist from the University of Padua was involved at the invitation of the MOEW and on the recommendation of the IFBAMS for this purpose. As a result of the samples taken and subsequent laboratory analyses carried out in Italy, it became clear during the mandate of the caretaker government that the cause of the mortality of marine mammals is a contagious disease. As the information was limited, Dear Minister, I ask you in this regard to provide details of the conclusions of the Italian specialist, as well as up-to-date information on the situation this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u156	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. The Minister of Environment and Water has the floor, Mr. Neno Dimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u157	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Vasileva! During a number of actions to effectively address the problem of the observed increased mortality of dolphins along the Bulgarian Black Sea coast, as well as in order to obtain a thorough and maximum objective understanding of the problem, the Ministry of Environment and Water conducts an autopsy on two bodies of a common dolphin and a mutcourt in November 2016. In the final report of the Italian scientists involved, an analysis was carried out of the records of the cetaceans that have been dumped on the shore in the last few years. Based on the processing of data by type and age composition, the report proves the existence of a phenomenon of an unusual case of mortality on the Bulgarian coast of the Black Sea in the summer of 2016. This has been proven by the fact of: First, a sharp increase in the number of dumped bodies in the summer months of 2016. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, "August', with a maximum of one month. Second, twice the number of bodies in the summer months of 2016 compared to the previous year. Third, a dominant number of discarded newborns and young individuals representing immunologically susceptible organisms. Scientific expertise reports that some of the registered cases are within the normal values for discards, especially for the type of aphala, as well as the increased monitoring contribution by visitors to the beaches during the summer. The results of the microscopic studies of the two individuals, which were the only ones suitable for autopsy, prove the hypothesis of the spread of measles specific to the cetaceans virus in the Black Sea. In more detail, the mutkur died as a result of an infection caused by the virus and subsequent bronchopneumonia, which a complication probably affected the possibility of the still dependent on the mother individual to follow the group. The hypothesis of the common dolphin, also young and sexually immature, is for acute infection and general discomfort, probably due to viral disease. The authors also highlight similar cases, including cases of 150 mutkurs dumped on the Turkish coast of the Black Sea in 2009, as well as in July 2016, and also of an Italian dolphin on the Italian coast of the Ionian Sea. In the conclusions the authors point out that this is the second proven establishment of this virus in the Black Sea, more than 20 years after the first one in 1994. Based on up-to-date information from regional inspections in Burgas and Varna, as control bodies on the procedure with cetaceans, the total number of bodies registered dead from the beginning of the year until 18 July 2017 is 81. In comparison, 91 bodies were in the same period of 2016. I should point out that upon expiry of this calendar year, detailed data processing will give us more information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u158	Thank you, dear Minister. For a replica.. Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u159	Thank you. Dear Minister, I am pleased with the detailed information you presented regarding the causes of the deaths of cetaceans in the Black Sea. Undoubtedly scientific opinion is important, scientific expertise is what we need to rely on. It is therefore important for society to know what is happening, what measures and actions have been taken, what are the reasons for the dumped bodies on the shore. You remember the very mixed comments and accusations that were thrown in one direction or another over the past year. That is why I once again say that I am satisfied with the contribution of scientists to finding an answer to this question, the reasons and the efforts of the Ministry of Environment and Water and the other competent authorities for continuing monitoring and monitoring of the state of the dolphin population in the Bulgarian Black Sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u160	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. Will there be a hole, Minister? No. Let's move on to the next question. It is a question by the MP Hristo Grudev Grudev and Zhivko Ivanov about the development and implementation of state policy in the field of the environment. You have three minutes, Mr. Grudev, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! My question is about the development and implementation of state policy in the field of environment. The Ministry of Environment and Water shall develop and conduct a state policy in the field of the environment with its main aspects related to legislative initiatives, strategic planning, implementation of sectoral policies, implementation of preventive activities and management of programmes and projects financed by European Union Funds and other international funding organisations. From the priorities presented to society by the government in the Environment sector and from your speeches we see that you are basing the successful environmental policy on the search for a balance between three main points: environmental protection, economic development and improving quality of life. In this sense, my question to you is this: what will be the policy of the Ministry and yours as Minister of Environment and Water with regard to finding a common tangent between the three points mentioned above? Would you share concrete steps to be taken in this direction?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u162	Thank you, Mr. Grudev. Mr. Secretary, you have five minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u163	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Grudev! In response to your question, I would like to present to you the policy of the Ministry of Environment and Water. Our overall activity to implement an integrated environmental policy and transition to a green economy which simultaneously reduces the risks to the environment and guarantees growth and development, protects people's health and well-being and protects biodiversity is aimed at achieving three main priorities: protecting, preserving and increasing the country's natural capacity; developing resource-efficient environmentally friendly, low carbon economy; ensuring a high level of protection for citizens from environmental impacts on their health and well-being. The Ministry's immediate efforts are aimed at supporting the implementation of environmental policy by reducing administrative and regulatory burdens on citizens and businesses. In this regard, we are working actively with a number of employers' organisations that propose concrete measures to reduce administrative burdens and reduce the time limits for issuing documents within the competence of our office. We are also in the process of discussing with them the idea of bringing together some of the major environmental procedures. The main objective is to ensure an equal competitive environment, suitable and business-friendly by applying the same rules for controlling and issuing permits and permissions impartially, and under environmental legislation. The focus of politics must be on man and his well-being. The healthy environment, the sensible use of resources, the conservation of biodiversity and nature are one side of environmental policy. Creating opportunities for economic growth, growth of gross domestic product and higher income of people is the other side. We are following an approach to minimize possible tensions between nature policy and economic activities. We are removing weaknesses in the implementation of legislation. We integrate environmental objectives in different areas, increase access to data, improve communications and stimulate active participation in the environmental policy of all stakeholders. In order to create a financial, strategic, regulatory and regulatory framework in favour of green economic development, the Ministry of Environment and Water works in partnership with local authorities and businesses to promote investment in environmental infrastructure, as well as in measures to protect human health and protect natural capital. The Operational Programme "Environment" 2014 "2020" is the main financial instrument. The funds under the Programme are given priority to municipalities with impaired air quality to develop or update municipal air quality programmes. Investment measures aimed at domestic heating and public transport are to be financed. The work of the interdepartmental working group is continuing to propose changes in legislation aimed at limiting the sulphur and ash content of coal and briquettes sold for domestic heating. Within this group, the problem of providing heating aid is also expected to be solved. We have initiated the establishment of an interdepartmental group with stakeholders to discuss the implementation of emergency transport measures. First of all, it is about improving control regarding the compliance of motor vehicles with the technical requirements to be met in order to reduce emissions of harmful substances in the ambient air. In the context of achieving waste use targets, such as resources, financing under the Operational Programme "Environment" 2014 "2020" aims at waste management in a way that does not endanger people's lives and health and provides them with a clean and favourable environment. We encourage modern technologies, and our aim is to work for the recycling of the principles of the circular economy and to invest in waste recovery technologies, which brings added value to businesses. In order to improve the environment of the population, the construction of regional waste management systems and the gradual provision of additional funding for municipalities that must fulfil their obligations to close and reclamate the old landfills. One of the main priorities in the ministry's work at the moment is to allow for a derogation from the proposed disposal objective, as there is no clarity on funding after 2020, as well as the eligibility of certain types of investment and waste treatment activities. The negotiated mandate for negotiations with the European Parliament between the Member States and the Council of the European Union provides for the possibility of a derogation from which Bulgaria could benefit, which can be taken into account as one of the successes in the negotiation process of the European Union. The investments in the sector are aimed at improving waste water treatment and cost-effective management of the drinking water resource. In this way we provide new opportunities for business and more green jobs. The MOEW programme to help municipalities to effectively manage mineral water fields in their territory with the funds of the National Trusted Ecofund is another concrete step towards finding the balance between the three points we talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u164	Thank you, dear Minister. Two supplementary questions. Mr. Grudev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I'm satisfied with the answer to the question. I am pleased that you have skillfully stepped on these three foundations of ecology, economics and quality of life, I think that by skillfully balancing between them, you will be able to cope successfully with the challenges ahead of you as a minister. I wish you and the government a successful mandate! Take care.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u166	Thank you, Mr. Grudev. For an answer and a back? I won't. We continue with the last question to Minister Dimov. This is a question from the MP Dora Ilieva Yankova about the stage implementation of the geothermal heating system of the town of Zlatograd. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u167	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Minister Dimov, my question is about the implementation of the geothermal heating system of the town of Zlatograd. Since 2005 it has been under implementation and design under the PHARE programme and the whole process has been going on for 12 years. A discussion supported by the business, by the residents of Zlatograd, important to Zlatograd. The project itself is important for the quality of Zlatograd's life, for the economic, economic development of Zlatograd and for further disclosure of its tourist appearance. The first module of the project was built with the funds of the PDOOS. If I am not mistaken, March 2014 was the first contract of 3 million. 990 thousand. lv. Here in the Chamber, we have spoken with Minister Vasileva that there was a delay in the implementation of the project. Maybe you could let me know how it ended? There are still three sub-units left. The pipeline from Erma to Zlatograd with a length of about 14 km; the urban thermal network to public, to residential buildings; as well as the thermal network to tourist buildings that are related to balneotherapy. The city's geothermal plant was built earlier on PHARE. Maybe she should be rehabilitated. Here in the hall, I have received an answer that a set of the project for the other three modules has been submitted to the Ministry of Environment and Water. Zlatograd's public expects and local authorities share that the project will be financed by the state. Please inform me of the attitude towards this project of the Ministry and the government in which you are involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u168	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u169	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Yankova! Two contracts were concluded in March 2014 for the project "Development of a geothermal heating system" of the town of Zlatograd. Under contract No 93-60 of 7 March 2014 to finance the project "Development of a geothermal heating system of the town of Zlatograd."The amount of the project is 2 million. 915,000. £94. and 82 C.E. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 593 thousand. Ninety-one leva. 45 cm. After submission of final payment documents, a protocol for the acceptance of the facility intended for the water use of groundwater and a protocol of the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection, establishing the final implementation of the activity. Contract No 93-59 of 7 March 2014 for the financing of the project £400. The contract activity has been implemented, the funds have been paid out after the submission of the documents for final payment.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On 10 July 2015, the municipality of Zlatograd deposited an application for a grant of 18 million. 607 thousand. £303. and 14. with VAT for the implementation of sub-unit 2 "External thermal conduit from an underground water facility for the geothermal plant in the town of Zlatograd " from the project "Development of a geothermal heating system, Zlatograd ". At present, the project does not fall within the scope of funding priorities in the water sector, namely: the completion of leading and major collectors to urban agglomeration treatment plants of more than 10 thousand. equivalent residents, according to art. 127 of the Water Act; completion of sewerage networks, main and leading collectors to urban waste water treatment plants or modular waste water treatment plants for agglomeration of more than 2 thousand. equivalent residents, in accordance with art. 127 of the Water Act; and the completion of small plumbing projects on terminated contracts following a decision of the Board of Directors of the POSA, as well as plumbing facilities with completed phased funding, which remain less than 50% to be completed in accordance with the current application submitted; and finally, financing and co-financing of sites implemented under the ISPA, PHARE programme and other or financing of sites funded by European Union funds. Regarding sub-unit 3 of the project, no application for funding has been made for the project in the POSIA.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u170	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Yankova for a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u171	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Thank you for being correct about what the Ministry of Environment and Water can do according to its functions in relation to the municipality itself. What's the situation with this project now? It is necessary and can change Zlatograd, quality of life and give impetus to economic and economic development. There's a geothermal plant that's built. There are still two more modules to be built. The government of Borisov 1 resized. The government of Borisov 2 promised it would be fulfilled. The governments of the left have designed and supported the plant. The PUDO has implemented the funds. I address you as Minister in the Government of Borisov 3. I suppose in the preparation of the budget, the ministers speak to each other. I will also talk to the Minister of Finance if it is necessary to sit down on a working conversation and find either a target resource to help complete the project because it is important, or to guide the local community with the business towards a public-private partnership. Otherwise, you will excuse me in the fairy tale, which I will say, the local people and political leaders who are going to Zlatograd are stretching out some political lacquers, people are waiting, and there is a huge resource that can be used and give impetus to the development of this wonderful Bulgarian municipality one of the jewels of the Rhodope region. And I really expect the government of Borisov 3 to find a solution how to implement this so important project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u172	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Hole, Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u173	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Yankova! There are currently priorities under the Law to be followed. And there's no reason to do anything different. You, as the National Assembly, are the people who finally accept the budget. Of course we talk during the budget, this is not the only case where there should be funding to finish. I agree there is something that has been started and it is good to be finished. Of course. In this particular case, however, it seems to me that the public-private partnership mentioned by yourself is an excellent opportunity, given that this is a TPP that stands in the ground and can be used. Maybe this is an appropriate direction for development. In any case, I refer to you again: with the adoption of the budget, it will be discussed here, but do not burden the PDA with expectations that it cannot take as an undertaking at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u174	Thank you, dear Minister. This was the last question to the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov. Let us thank him for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Mr. Rumen Porozhanov. The first question is from the MP Ivelina Vassileva on the catches of white mussel in the Black Sea. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u175	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! In today's parliamentary control, this is the third question I ask about the Black Sea, this time in relation to the catch of a white clam. During the last few months, during my meetings with voters in the Burgas multi-manandaten electoral region, the issue of unregulated catches of white mussels was repeatedly raised in the Bulgarian aquatory of the Black Sea through bottom trawling and dredging means, vacuum pumps and facilities. These methods are prohibited by the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. Such practices lead to disastrous environmental consequences. The bottom is ploughing, which violates the environment for marine life and the specific balance of the ecosystem. The catch method authorised by the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture shall be without a fishing gear and shall limit the opportunities for such adverse effects and large quantities of yield. Catches of white mussel on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast, however, have increased significantly in recent years and this is evident from the statistics. Probably the reason for the increased fishing interest in the species is the high buying price of these mussels, which, according to informal information, reaches 25-30 euros in some countries. Mass catches of white mussels can result in a threatening reduction of the population of the species, which is already present in other countries, which have become the main importer of the Bulgarian yield. It is therefore necessary to strengthen control in order to prevent unauthorised catches and to take measures to preserve the white mussel population. Dear Minister, please answer the following questions to me in this regard: is there any up-to-date information on the stocks of white mussel on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast and the change in the number of species? What measures have been taken or will be taken by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the directly responsible institution for the control of such activities................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u176	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. Mr. Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u177	Thank you. Mrs. President, Mrs. Vasileva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Everything you've said is exactly like that. Still, a little bit of information. In recent years, the economic interest for the extraction of white sand mussels has increased to realise them on the domestic and, above all, on the external market. During a meeting of the Advisory Council for Fisheries this spring, a discussion was held on some problems in the production of sand mussels. Information was requested from the scientific institutes in the country on the species of white sand mussels subject to commercial catches in the Black Sea for an appropriate period for the introduction of a ban on catches, as well as a minimum allowable catch size. The information is necessary to take adequate and timely scientific measures for the sustainable management of stocks of white sand mussels. According to the scientific opinions provided by the Institute of Fisheries Resources. Varna, the Institute of Oceanology and the Institute of Biodiversity and Ecosystem Research at BAS at the moment, unfortunately, there is no up-to-date scientific information on the state of the stocks of these mussels in the Bulgarian aquatory of the Black Sea. Their breeding season in Bulgaria starts in spring and ends at the end of the summer season. In relation to the decision taken then of the Advisory Council for Fisheries to introduce a prohibition on catching white mussels during the breeding period and given the recommendations and scientific advice, we are working on an order. The order is ready and is on my desk for a week for a two-month ban on catching white clams. I have the question: why two months and why now? As soon as I answer these questions, I will sign the order. In terms of control. From the beginning of the year until 28 August, the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture carried out a total of 173 inspections on sea, ports, on first sale and on means of transport tied to the control and conservation of white sand mussels. Of these 23 are the result of received signals with doubts about making unregulated catches of white sandy mussel. The remaining 150 checks are related to the regular control activities of the Agency. As a result, 140 constructive protocols and inspection protocols are drawn up, as well as 6 acts establishing administrative infringements. A total of 18 unregulated fishing gear was seized and three boats were seized. The quantities of white sand mussel subject to illegal catches are returned to the Black Sea waters. In parallel with the control activities of the Agency, joint activities with the Directorate-General for Border Police and since the beginning of the year, ten inspections have been carried out related to the control of the catches of the white sand clam. 10 constitutional protocols and 5 acts for the establishment of administrative infringements are drawn up. In these checks, a total of 6 unregulated fishing gear is seized. The quantities of white mussel are back in the water. Penal decrees and administrative penalties have been issued within the statutory period. In summary, unfortunately, there is not, as I said, enough information in these institutes about stocks at the moment. We have strengthened control, perhaps it can always be better, but, on the other hand, the subject of introducing a period of banning catches is up to date and I am available to discuss it with anyone who can help on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u178	Thank you, dear Minister. For your reply, Mrs. Vasileva, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u179	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for your information and for your personal efforts to address this problem. Undoubtedly, unregulated catches are worrying, and for this reason I am convinced that you will make every effort to improve the effectiveness of the control exercised by your Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency. As regards stock data, as well as your powers under the Law, to impose restrictions on catches of fish and marine organisms, it is, of course, necessary to agree with both scientific institutes and perhaps experts from other countries who have already experienced in this area. In this sense, I would support you in your efforts to understand why exactly two months and why now, because I also do not find a logical answer at this time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u180	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. Mr. Minister, for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u181	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u182	I won't. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Stefan Burgeev regarding the state of the protection dikes along the Danube river on the territory of the municipality of Gulyantsi, Pleven district. Here you go, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u183	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is this: in my meetings and receptions in the electoral area, I often have the problem of the state of the strengthening facilities along the Danube. With particular sharpness and reasonable concern, this concerns the state of the dikes in the municipality of Gulyantsi. Here the Danube dikes are 57 km long. Their condition, however, is extremely disturbing, deteriorated continuously over the years, overgrown with woody and bushy vegetation, in places with holes, in places without passability. Currently, the state of these dikes on the territory of the municipality of Gulyantsi does not allow even an examination, which makes it impossible. This in an area with flat terrain, where during the full months of the river there are sections, like the village of Dubovan, where the ground level falls below its level. The dike is the only protection of the land and people who still remember their horror and worries since 2006. Today their fear is from a breakthrough in the dike at the village of Zagrazhden, which is in very bad condition. They consider that once cleaning and tampering the holes is not a solution to the issue and that a new organisation of the monitoring and maintenance work is needed to ensure continuity of this process. Dear Minister, in relation to the above and its sharpness in the context of this season, I ask your response to the following: what is the assessment of the current state of the protection dikes along the Danube river on the territory of the municipality? What measures have been taken and will be taken to bring and maintain them in good condition? Are changes planned in the organisation of monitoring and maintenance of the dikes to ensure continuity of this process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u184	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u185	Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u186	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Burgeev! On the territory of the municipality of Gulyantsi the length of the Danube dike is 47 km, we will not argue whether it is 57 or 47, so I have been written, which protects against flooding the agricultural lands, settlements and technical infrastructure in the lowlands of Karaboaz and Milkovitsa. Four drainage pump stations have been built to drain the lowlands with an open and closed sewer network to drain approximately 80 thousand. dca farmland. By contract of 3 April 2014 the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has entrusted to The same includes bypassing and monitoring, operation and maintenance, as well as establishing the technical and operational state of Danube and protective dikes, corrections of rivers and ravines, drainage fields and facilities along them and of the repair dams. As of now "Irrigation systems" "Sredden Danube" branch with the available staff and equipment take appropriate action in the implementation of the contract cited above. The actual technical condition of the Danube dike, no interruptions, demises of the dike has been established during the conduct of the sightings and sightings. The water level of the Danube, which was not high, was constantly being followed during the past spring. For the normal operating condition, it is necessary to carry out continuous cleaning of the crown and its layers. During the drainage season 2016 - 2017 the pumping stations worked continuously from November to May in order to avoid increasing the level of groundwater in the lowlands and prevent the appearance of wet spots. With this activity "Irrigation systems" branch "Sredden Danube" have guaranteed farmers not to be allowed to compromise their crops. The efforts are aimed at cleaning the shrub vegetation and deposits of the open drain network in order to ensure effective operation of pumping stations and at the moment was performed cleaning the 7,5 km open channel. After the cleaning of the main drainage network will begin cleaning the dike. With the focus of the activities of the Spring season Irrigation Systems, mainly for cleaning the sewer network, there was no danger of the security of any of the sub-Dunav villages from flooding and there was no compromise of farmers' crops. During the period from 1 July to 20 July this year, the drainage pump stations were operated by the two-way, the station is called the two-way station, which is the basis for preventing the flooding of agricultural land in the low Karaboaz. We perform cleaning of a stretch 600 m long from the drainage channel O-1, O-3 and the work on it continues. We are cleaning the crown of the Danube dike with a length of 2200 m on the territory of the municipality of Gulyantsi. Cleaning continues by making an organization to move a cleaning mechanization from Svishtov's area to the area of Gulyantsi. The costs incurred for the maintenance of the water systems and facilities of public government ownership by the Irrigation systems of the month of August this year amounted to 650 thousand. BGN, including close to 100 thousand. are for electricity for operation at the drainage pump stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u187	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Burgeev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues! From your answer I take note that there is a responsible attitude, the question of the risk that hides this problem with the dikes is legitimate. There are measures taken and preventive and preventive. It is important to me, Mr. Minister, and that is why I have placed it, also regularly to continue this prevention and prevention process, because concerns and fears in the local population are justified, because always with serious climate change and an increase in the Danube may suffer first physically and then materially many people directly and indirectly in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u189	Thank you, dear Lord Burgeev. The next question is again from the MP...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u190	I'd like the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u191	Excuse me! Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u192	Thank you. I'm absolutely solidarity with what you said. A little out of the context of the matter. The subject of climate change and nature's risks is not only up to date everywhere. It is no coincidence that one of the major topics currently being debated at the level of agriculture in the common agricultural policy is how to develop financial instruments so that the risks faced by the agricultural sector in Europe in the next programming period can be covered. I will have the pleasure of inviting the Agricultural Commission, we have agreed somewhere on the 14th, the whole committee, with us at the Ministry, to comment on all the topics that you are interested in, to present to you what we presented to the Commission yesterday, pardon at a press conference. In the new CAP, which pawns these instruments, is extremely important and the issue of the prevention and security of citizens, which does not, of course, fall into such a policy, must also be very responsiblely monitored and financed, of course, in the coming years, as you see what is happening in some countries both west and east of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u193	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev concerning the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Here you go, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Dear Minister, colleagues! My question is from the region, again a question from the region, again sensitive, only in another direction. The Municipality of Dolni Dubnik and the Municipality of Pleven was established in 2000. The municipality of Dolni Dubnik and the municipality of Pleven participate with non-money contributions. The company was created with good intentions and expectations to support farmers in the area by organizing and managing sales and markets of producers and mediation in transactions, actions and projects in the interests of producers. For one reason or another, none of the original projects have been implemented. The company has poor financial performance and with bases that are not maintained and destroyed, and for years it has created a sense of non-interest as a policy by the state. I only add in the above that the second largest shareholder with 38% is the State in this company. My question to you, Minister, is as follows: what is the vision of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the City of Pleven? Do you also see how the development of this company in perspective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u195	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. Mr. Minister, for a response, three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u196	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Burgeev, some numbers. It is a commercial company established in 2000. The capital is 1 million. 313 thousand. BGN, distributed in one-half of its shares in nominal 50 BGN. Municipality of Dolni Dubnik In the total capital of the company, the Ministry participated with a cash contribution of 500 thousand. lv. As you said, the two municipalities have non-cash contributions. "Miziya 2000 " is operating in two directions, unfortunately, has not operated at all on a wholesale market and on a producer market. Those were the original ideas. I can't go back to 2000, but evidently even from the distribution of shareholdings, not the state was the lead, but the initiative was the municipalities so that these conditions could develop for the development of the agricultural sector. The initially designed project for the construction of wholesale markets on the Pleven terrain was not realized due to lack of funding. The company has been working at a loss since its establishment and despite the efforts of the management to reduce costs, the revenue generated from the market of producers in the village of Gorni Dubnik is not sufficient to ensure timely repayment of current debts and self-employment. In the last submitted report to the Ministry for verification of the annual financial statement 2014 This is the last report, the registered auditor has stated that: There is considerable uncertainty about the possibility that the Company will continue to operate as an active undertaking. For this reason, it may not be able to realise its assets, as well as to settle its obligations in the normal course of its activity. Unsuccessfully the efforts of the management to rent out the terrain in the town of Pleven or to participate in a joint activity through its deportation, as well as to attract private capital in order to provide funding. The 100% share of state and municipal participation in the company's capital is a limit to attracting funding under various European programmes. As early as 2005, the shareholder of Pleven proposed to terminate his participation in the Miziya 2000. In this regard, the Municipal Council in Pleven launched a privatisation procedure through a public tender of the municipal participation in the company of 27 March 2014. By decision of 24 July 2014, the municipal council in Dolni Dubnik also launched a privatisation procedure through a public tender of the municipal participation in the Company. By letter dated 15 February 2015 to the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency, the Ministry proposed that the State's stake in the Millennium 2000 will also be sold. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has received an invitation from 18 August this year to convene an extraordinary General Assembly of the Shareholders of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which will take place on 18 September. The announced agenda of the invitation is: firstly, an exemption from the post of Executive Director, who is also a member of the Board of Directors. And the second release of the representative of Pleven Municipality as a member of the Board of Directors. At present, there is no data to conclude transactions for the announcement of procedures for sale of the City of Pleven. The company is not active in business with its assets available and has no staff. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I think it is evident from the foregoing that the Company has no perspective and the state should not be the leader. If the municipalities have a vision to develop, but this vision has not developed, as you have seen for more than 15 years, so obviously you must go to liquidation or bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u197	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Burgeev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues! From your answer, I realized that a move was given at the moment and is due on September 18th, if I have heard correctly, a meeting of the Society and to release its governor. Your arguments are somewhat justified that it is a matter of strategy and of the vision of municipalities, but ultimately there is something that is very sensitive, tangible in this municipality of Dolni Dubnik and in an agricultural area, such as Pleven, the state and partly, in private cases, regions and municipalities are ultimately debtors because in the North-Western region and specifically in the municipality of Dolni Dubnik farmers are damaged. Nothing is developing that will improve the economic life cycle of municipalities and employment. After all, it is the easiest thing to close down and not find an option to do something working, high-tech, what should happen in this case, and which is the first thing to do, the area is agricultural, second, logistics is good and has acted on this thing. So, again, your arguments are also justified, Mr. Minister, but ultimately there are some results that are reducing and lack of more and more prospects for regions such as Dolni Dubnik Municipality in the private case.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u199	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. For the coat, please, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u200	And I learned the terminology. That's the first time I've spoken that word. I don't want to argue with you, but you're wrong about the fact that the state and all the state authorities owe the sector. The sector is one of the best supported sectors in Bulgaria. Yes, this is also due to the single common European policy in this sector. Over 3 billion. lv. Every year they enter this sector. The Pleven region, as a strong agricultural region, is one of the most supported, with many implemented projects under the Rural Development Programme. I guess I'll come to the 15th. There's an organized discussion about the Rural Development Program. I'd love to meet you there. It is organized by.24 hours. I'd love to meet you there so we can debate in detail. The project we are talking about is a good initiative. We don't have any other projects like this. The state had a good desire to support it, it was involved with a cash contribution, but it was not the lead in its implementation. Of course, farmers at the moment will not tell you names and numbers, especially in the Pleven region there are very strong agricultural cooperatives and sectors. Farmers themselves can always organize in one direction or another, giving them a good regulatory framework, but they do not even need funding. But, of course, the pity is that a good undertaking has not been realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u201	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the final question of today's parliamentary control. Question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev on lists of assets for which reference prices have been set under the sub-report 4.1................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Here you are, Mr. Danchev, to develop the last question about today's parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! By order of the Minister of Agriculture and Food of 27 March 2015 and on the basis of the provisions of Decree No 9 of 21 March 2015 on the application of sub-measure 4.1 of measure 4 of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020, a period has been fixed for the acceptance of applications for support for the sub-measure 4.1. In accordance with the conditions for admission of applications on the website of the State Fund, a list of assets has also been published for which reference prices have been set. In this regard, Mr Minister, I ask you to answer me in what way, respectively, on what basis the reference prices of agricultural equipment have been established in the database with reference prices of sub-measure 4.1.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Secondly, are there any lawsuits brought against the State Fund in relation to that list of reference prices and, if any, how many of them have been lost by the State Fund of Agriculture at the first and second instance, respectively, what could be the expected damage to the state budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u203	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Danchev! The basic requirement of the measures under the RDP for 2014-2020 is not to finance costs above their market value. To this end, the State Fund........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this regard, as required by Decree No 9 of 21 March 2015 on the application of sub-measure 4.1 of the Programme, the Paying Agency maintains a list of assets, activities and services for which reference costs have been determined. Prior to the adoption of applications for support, as determined by the Order of 27 March 2015 of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, after receiving information from official importers of agricultural equipment in the country, the State Fund of Agriculture has drawn up a list of the assets, activities and services for which reference costs have been determined. The same was agreed by the Minister of Agriculture and Food and was published on the website of the Paying Agency before the date of publication of the order, as required by art. 32, para. 10 of the Ordinance. It should be noted that the list of assets, activities and services for which reference costs are determined, which are published and accessible to applicants, does not contain information on the cost of the equipment indicated by the supplier and the name of the supplier itself. The list contains only a mark and model of the particular asset. The paying agency has complied with the requirement of the Ordinance regarding the period of publication of the list, which, once again, does not contain any information regarding expenditure. A change in the value of the reference cost shall in no way be contrary to art. 32, para. 10 of the Ordinance. No moment is reflected in the published list and, respectively, does not put candidates at a disadvantage. 59 administrative cases under sub-measure 4.1 with reference prices have been brought against the State Fund. 38 cases and 21 cases are awarded to the Supreme Administrative Court. The decisions of the first instance court in favour of the Fund are 16, two of them are confirmed by the Supreme Administrative Court. In 15 administrative cases in the first instance, decisions have been given by which the Fund's refusals have been annulled. At this time, these proceedings are still pending and there is no ruling by the Supreme Administrative Court. 28 administrative cases are ongoing and administrative courts are expected to rule. Due to pending administrative cases, the financial effect cannot be predicted. A little information about the reference prices. A major problem in the previous programming period was especially when assessing the assets of three bids or with an evaluator that create quite, I would say, subjective attitude in the preparation of the projects. I don't need to tell you how three offers can be worked. I do not need to tell you how subjectiveism can be achieved in one or another valuer. Therefore, the main thing that we have imposed in the Fund is that there should be reference prices. This list, especially in the second part of the second reception, we have extended it to the maximum where there may be a reference price, and we have absolutely used any data relating to the determination of costs. In the original case, we are talking mainly about agricultural equipment. There's 35,000 positions here. What happened? In the old programming period, the so-called distributors and equipment providers had their mobility. I don't want to say any harsher words, but they had prices when they were for projects at the State Fund. Of course, by providing us with the information we received when preparing the reference prices, with the information about these prices, we reduced everyone by 30%. That 30% didn't come by accident, but I'm not gonna tell you from the stands. Because the requirement is not to be higher than the market. The reference price is a price that says the Paying Agency will pay for this project. Whether the applicant likes this or won't like it, it's a very separate matter. Of course, they would very much like the price to be higher. And these are all the cases of the consultants in question who so well care for our agricultural beneficiaries. With regard to enlargement, I automatically return these 30% of the prices immediately give you 30% more beneficiaries with whom they can agree, so the restrictive reference price policy we have followed in all the receptions. Regarding whether there is a budget damage. The budget couldn't have, in this case it's protected. And even if a case is won, it will return to the original, but it will go again within the framework of co-financing and European funding. In this way, we have tried to give a fair assessment and an opportunity for more farmers to be negotiated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u205	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Mr. Danchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, of course, it is commendable that you wish to observe carefully the spending of public resources and to see that more funds can be given to farmers where they need them in the most appropriate way. However, it has to be said that the so-called reference prices are to be formed by the prices of the relevant market, and the information about them is therefore available to every candidate, you said, who is doing a well-intentioned market study, I hope, but also to the administrative authority that evaluates the projects. In this sense, the administrative reduction in reference prices is not what you said by 30%. If a study had been carried out by the administrative authority, there would have been no discrepancy between the costs granted and the costs approved for financing. Accordingly, it would not have come to this huge number of "59," if I am not mistaken, what you have said, brought cases against the State Fund of Agriculture. For a long time, I also believe that the State Fund of Agriculture had to stop the practice of approving projects with offers for the supply of assets with expired validity of the bids, because this usually leads to significant changes in the prices of the financed assets to the detriment of the beneficiaries. The more detailed analysis of art. 32 of Decree No 9 of the Minister of Agriculture and Food concludes that the administrative authority should disclose a list of the costs to which reference prices apply prior to the adoption of applications for support, since the number of tenders that applicants provide as an annex is at least dependent on this. In this sense, it is likely that the administrative authority of the Commission had doubts in the reality of the prices provided for the assets in the list, what you said, for which reference costs were determined. The applicants could be asked to submit another three comparable independent offers on the basis of which the financing approval would be made. That's my comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u207	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u208	I can't agree to any of what you said. First, when you were leading the creative debate with suppliers and distributors, they were not happy that prices were reduced. When we asked them, "Where are your prices to see them?"..................... that there is no price on the site. On their delivery sites, everything is based on an offer, because it was on a specification because it was on a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a. Prices that you can say are market in one aspect or another, there may be individual cases in the mass case, but there are no such prices. I'll tell you what that 30% is for. Many of the associations and farmers came to us and told us: "These are not the prices. The prices are quite different. " - 30 percent of them are not random. Could have been 28%, could have been just how many you are and so on. Do not think that we have in any way affected the market price very much. Even if it is not the market price, in this case a reference price is given at which one thing is financed. There is no requirement for it to be announced in advance. I don't want to argue about all this with you. Maybe in a separate conversation, it'll be nice.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u209	Thank you, dear Minister. This was the last question for Minister Porozhanov today. [[National Representative Tasco Ermenkov wants the floor for procedure.]] Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. You didn't speak today. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Let's hear the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u210	Dear Madam President, the procedure in the manner of conduct is not always to criticize you. This time I would like to commend you for having conducted a good, moderate, good parliamentary control, in which you gave the ministers the opportunity to respond and did not interrupt them when the three minutes ran out. We're here to hear their answers, not specify ourselves in three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u211	That's why I didn't interrupt them. I was just warning.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u212	I ask you, as the head of a part of the management of this Assembly, today you will not be able to decide this, but let us introduce as a principle: since there is a minister in this Chamber and there are more questions to it, let us not interrupt parliamentary control, because then it is difficult to call the minister here again. He's taken this day for parliamentary control. Let him answer the questions addressed to him, let's finish him off. I think it's a reasonable management decision that won't be affected. We'll save time, save administrative capacity. There will be no people standing around waiting for the minister, for example, has begun, and now let's cut off a second of whether or not it will reach me. Once again, I congratulate you on the way you have led the Assembly. I hope you'll respect my offer as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-01.u213	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Your offer is good, but we have eight more questions for Mr. Porozhanov. Perhaps we should make a decision in advance, vote on it, or consider it at the Conference of Presidents. I will discuss it with the Chairman and give you the opinion of the management. I am adjourning today's plenary session. The next regular plenary session is September 7 at 1300. [[PHONE RINGING]]
