ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u1	Good morning, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, allow me to present to you a draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period 3 May 2017. It was reviewed at the Conference of Presidents and will present it as adopted by the Presidents. Proposals of the parliamentary groups under art. 53, para. Eight of the subs. A proposal from the parliamentary group of GERB party is not available. Proposal from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria 1. Draft Decision for the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the establishment of deficiencies and violations in the activities of the Agency " Road Infrastructure" and the former National Company "Strategic Infrastructure Projects" in the implementation and implementation of procedures for the construction of highways and roads. Kornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 28 April 2017. From the parliamentary groups of "United Patriarchs," "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" and "Volja" there were no proposals received. We're proposing a t. 2 to be: The hearing of the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence Stefan Yanev and of the Minister of Interior Plamen Uzunov regarding the protection of national security, ensuring the security of the state border, the carried out personnel policy, and the resource provision of the two departments. Importers are Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 28 April 2017. The agenda is again proposed as a point of inclusion of the Draft Decision on the establishment of the Temporary Commission, which I have already notified to you, in accordance with art. 53, para. Eight of the subs. For t. 4 A draft decision to suspend the basic monthly remuneration of Members of the National Assembly is proposed. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 20 April 2017. The proposal is that this should be already a t. 1, in view of the changes to the programme for Thursday, 4 May 2017 I ask you to vote on the Programme in the part where it is to be voted on. Vote 205 MPs: 202 against 1, abstention 2. Program accepted. We have a proposal under art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for inclusion in the Program of the proposal for a hearing, which we have just voted on, and is already included. Now we continue with messages. Bills and draft decisions were adopted: On 28 April 2017 a draft decision for the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the identification of deficiencies and violations in the activities of the Agency of Road Infrastructure and the former National Company of Strategic Infrastructure Projects was adopted in the implementation and implementation of a procedure for the construction of highways and roads. The importer is Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. On the same date was received Annual Report of the State Commission on Security of Information on the overall status of the protection of classified information in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It's about to be deployed. On the same date a Report of the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency for 2016. Importer is the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. On the same date, 28 April 2017, an Annual Report of the Bulgarian National Bank for 2016 was received. On 27 April 2017, by letter from the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister for the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018. Mrs. Denitsa Zlateva, the National Assembly received instructions on the second draft of the 18-month program of Estonia, Bulgaria and Austria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union from 1 July 2017 to 31 December 2018, approved by the Council of Ministers on 26 April 2017. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was provided to the Presidents and Co-chairs of the parliamentary groups. After the election of permanent committees of the National Assembly, the report will be submitted to the parliamentary committees, according to established parliamentary practice. The material is available to the MPs and the Library of the National Assembly. The National Statistical Institute received information on the business climate in industry, construction, retail and services in April 2017, the general index of producer prices in industry and indexes of domestic and international market prices for March 2017. The materials are available to the MPs and the Library of the National Assembly. We shall continue with the proposals for inclusion in the agenda under art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We have received such from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. Please come out importer to present the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria we offer to your attention a draft decision for the establishment of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of deficiencies and violations in the activities of the Agency of Road Infrastructure and the former National Company of Strategic Infrastructure Projects in the construction and implementation of procedures for the construction of highways and roads in Bulgaria. The draft decision provides: "1." Establishment of a Temporary Commission for the establishment of deficiencies and violations in the activities of the Agency of Road Infrastructure and the former National Company of Strategic Infrastructure Projects............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. The Temporary Commission should be aware of the information and signals of poor performance of construction works in the construction of the highways of Maritsa, Trakia, Struma, and of compliance with the warranty deadlines fixed in the implementation contracts, according to the Law on Construction of the territory. 3. The Temporary Commission shall verify the contracts for the ongoing maintenance of the Republican Road Network and shall entrust them with construction and installation activities in violation of the Roads Act and the Construction Act in the territory. 4. The Temporary Commission shall establish whether there are practices for contracts already concluded in the subject of those contracts and include new stages and sections which are essentially new construction sites and should be subject to self-deployment and whether there are breaches in the selection of subcontractors and suppliers without the existence of approved work projects. 5. The temporary committee shall draw up a report on the results of the work, findings made, detected infringements and proposals to take appropriate measures by the responsible institutions. 6. The temporary committee is set up on a parietal principle by two MPs from each parliamentary group. 7. The temporary committee shall be set up for a period of three months. It is also to be done if approved and staff for the Temporary Commission itself.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u4	Can I have a few more arguments?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u5	Come on, as a statement, let's do it. If you wish, proceed as a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u6	Yes, I'll continue as a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u7	Okay, that's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u8	Over the past few years, national funding and European funds have spent hundreds of millions on the construction of highways and roads in the country. At the same time, at the moment, and further back in time, we are witnessing numerous scandals that accompany the method of awarding and the very implementation of these types of construction activities. Therefore, in response to these public expectations is our proposal to establish precisely this type of Temporary Commission. We want all these doubts that the Bulgarian society has about the fact that the procedures are vitiated that the procedures hardly have a predetermined winner; that a huge financial resource focuses and focuses on a small number of companies; that the Public Procurement Act in one form or another is being circumvented; that the quality of the completed works corresponds not always to the job of the contracting authority, is the desire to make such a type of inquiry committee. I know that some of you will tell you: the Bulgarian Parliament is not the place to deal with these types of committees. I would like to remind you that this is an established parliamentary practice back in time. In the past, the National Assembly we had a committee of inquiry that reviewed the activities of pension funds; a committee that dealt with the cartel in fuel; a committee that examined all the facts and circumstances around the nuclear power plant So there is nothing unnatural in the Bulgarian Parliament to answer when creating such questions and high expectations on such topics concerning hundreds of millions. More than that. Forty-fourth National Assembly began its work well. He created two committees of inquiry: one is for verification of all cases of unpaid wages, and the second is for cases of higher levels of uranium and alpha activity in the waters of the Republic of Bulgaria. This will be the third step that will be in response to all these expectations that there are in Bulgarian society and all the doubts that there are. The Bulgarian Parliament is the place where they can get their answer and be distracted. And if it turns out that there are changes in the activity and we need a change in the legislation, it is only natural for the Bulgarian Parliament to come up with this type of recommendations. If it turns out that there are relevant infringements, the addressees are clear where they should be directed. And to colleagues, to GERB, who claim that they do not have any concerns in this area, there is nothing more natural than to support the creation of this Commission and to prove that they do not worry about everything that has happened within their governments, in the activity of awarding and implementing construction activities in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, in another case I would agree to make such a Commission, because indeed, as my colleague said before me, there is nothing to worry about GERB for the last years especially in this area, where it is perhaps one of the greatest successes that are... I say that in recent years, especially in the area of infrastructure building, this has always been embodied in the governments of the last governments of Boyko Borisov and that is precisely where I do not think there is anything to worry about. However, even in the way the Commission itself is being set up, it almost does not suggest that there is something wrong, because you have headed the Commission... I will only quote: "Project for a decision to set up a Temporary Commission for the identification of deficiencies and violations in the activities of the Agency's Road Infrastructure Agency, which you yourself, in the way you want to do this Commission, are somehow blaming for the Agency. Yes, indeed, there are prosecutorial investigations concerning Lot 1 of Maritsa, which is, of course, normal. There is nothing wrong with the institutions doing their job, there is nothing wrong with the prosecution investigating these procedures, but we should not, as a parliament and as MPs, deal with this particular activity, to take up the work of the prosecution. And I think you're looking for some kind of political dividend. I understand, this is the strong side of GERB. Indeed, this is a sign for the management of GERB and it is clear that it is the sweetest and most profitable to attack the politically exact strengths of the opponent. I understand that, but at the end of the day right there, given that the prosecution is dealing with some of these public procurements, I believe that Parliament does not need to do so, and I do not think that any political dividend can come out of this. Moreover, there are investigative bodies outside the country, who are also involved in determining whether there are violations in the way of the procedures, especially when it comes to highways and infrastructure sites financed by European funds. So I do not think it is appropriate to create this Commission, we will only duplicate the work. And let us rather let the prosecution and the other institutions and control bodies prove whether there are such violations. If there is, of course, someone guilty or someone who has not done his job with his action or inaction, and has contributed to the abuse of the image or of the work of these institutions,................................ of the Road Infrastructure Agency................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u12	Dear Mr. Nenkov, we have no intention of turning Parliament into a court of law or a prosecutor. You know the prosecution is investigating pre-trial and manufacturing crimes. Here we claim to carry out omissions and violations, not crimes. Are you saying that there has not been a single omission or infringement that has caused the State to suffer any losses? That is why it is not for the identification of any crimes, but for omissions or violations. I don't see what you're so afraid of or what you're hiding from so that such a temporary parliamentary committee is being set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Any other lines? Welcome to the People's Representative Manol Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Nenkov was absolutely right when he said we should really let the D.A. do his job. The idea of this Commission is not only to identify irregularities or irregularities, but the idea is to extend the scope and scope in terms of these gaps. I'll give you an example. Here, Mrs. Pavlova is here, Lilyana is former Minister of Regional Development. For example, when you find a defect or claim for the execution of warranty deadlines, especially under the Law on the Construction of the Area, first, the Road Agency is required to do some work, remove this defect, restore the operational state of the highway or the road in normal parameters and then charge the contractor. I am talking in the case where the guarantee of good implementation has been returned respectively by the contracting authority, so that these irregularities can be seen and those omissions that are not identified by God, but there are also such ones, and that relevant legislative changes in the area of legislation or sub-regulation are undertaken. So let us simply give up the existence of this Commission because someone does not like the name, I do not see it as a serious argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Nenkov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Genov, Mr. Popov! I can't argue that there are no omissions or violations. Naturally, every institution, every administration always has good practices, there are gaps and there is nothing wrong with looking for a way to straighten them out, and if there are any, to remove them. In this case, I suspect, rather, the idea for the creation of this Commission is some attempt to attack exactly this strong side of Borisov's Cabinets. Because, if you remember, about ten years ago what state the infrastructure in the whole country was in, I'm not saying that it's shining now, but certainly a lot has been done over the last few years of this, and somehow it doesn't go to parliament at this very moment to look a little under the ox calf. Why? Because I do not think that in Parliament we can reach the conclusions Mr. Genov spoke of. Given that you currently have the Prosecutor's Office, the State Financial Inspection Agency, the State Agency, the National Security Agency, which specifically deal with every ministry, and that we become an investigative body, in my opinion, will make no sense of this Commission. I can tell you the difference between the establishment of such a Commission and the Commission on the investigation of facts and circumstances concerning the problem that arose with drinking water in Haskovo. In the end, we are talking here about a Commission on a Parisian principle, which has a specific case, whether someone has covered up or not, is this drinking water dangerous to people's health? Here we, as MPs, can get acquainted with information from all these institutions and tell society whether it is or not. In this case, however, to investigate who has been taking public procurement, because I am sure that the Commission will work exactly this way: who has taken what public procurement, what violations there are - there are institutions that can do this job. I don't think parliament is the institution that should do it. I therefore believe that it is not appropriate to set up this Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. To speak, the people representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to express strongly my negative opinion on the proposal submitted for the establishment of a Temporary Commission for establishment with the following arguments. It is clear, transparent is the thesis of colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria that they want to reverse the effect into a defect, i.e. once again to suggest in public space that something is wrong, that if something good happened, it is not so good. The last few weeks have been a somewhat attractive indicator of this intention and of this political model. For this reason, I object to such an approach. It should be, even when we have a keen desire to bow down and stuff ourselves, to try to be, if not maximum, at least extremely within dignity, within the limits of a common moral standard, to be worthy! I also listened to last week's attempts to suggest specific facts and circumstances. However, they are merely claims. It turns out that evidence in this direction is merely statements that are unilateral enough. In this sense, I would like to say the following: there was a caretaker government for three months. It was not selected, it was not appointed by a political party GERB. I will not argue over the genesis which baboon, who was the author of this caretaker government. However, it had three months to establish, to gather sufficient evidence within all command-administrative proceedings, then to bring them where the laws suggest such evidence is presented. The National Assembly should not replace the prosecution in such an investigation. Let's not interfere with the prosecution's investigation and prosecution activities. Why should the National Assembly not deal with this case? Because this is far from the most significant case. Each administrative activity probably contains some deviations. They're not in the hypothesis of crimes, but they're probably administrative violations. That is why we have procedures in which these violations, first, are removed, then there is administrative-criminal responsibility. Taking such a job from the National Assembly will fulfill your intention to inspire the public, the people that you see, this approach is incorrect, incorrect. I also listened to my colleague Boychev, who says: "The damage caused, and the damage caused." But where is the evidence of this damage and damage? I also listened to the other speaker who wants to turn us into experts in construction and technical expertise. How will the National Assembly assign and accept such expertise? In a way, we can assume he'll listen to them, but how will I take them? I appeal to the following: if we want to move forward constructively, to apply a higher norm and a standard of objectivity. It is easy to place accusations even when there are pre-installed, rigged claims. However, our work will not be effective if we stay on this base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u20	Dear colleague Kirilov! Please read the draft decision carefully. I do not see how, drawing conclusions from the title itself, from the name of the Commission and its subject of activity, we will take the functions and activities of the prosecution. If everything is so wonderful and wonderful, what does the API prosecutor do? If you consider this to be a positive of your management, what is there to hide from? The National Assembly should give publicity because we are talking about millions of dollars not of this or that government, but millions of levs of Bulgarian citizens! It is with your refusal that you insinuate, not us, that there is something hidden, secret, illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u21	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Popov, I follow the text as you wrote it: acquittal of omissions and violations of activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u23	The Crimes!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u24	"Declaration of deficiencies and distortions of activity'. If we compare this to the crime scenes, it further delegates the meaning of such a Commission. We probably have twenty agencies. Can we go and identify the gaps and violations in each of them? I continue to be convinced of what I said in my main statement: this is not about hiding and refusing responsibility. It's all public. All actions in the construction and construction of road infrastructure are under the eyes of the public, so many years under the eyes of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Moskovsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I, too, would not accept the establishment of such a committee at Parliament level for several reasons. Firstly, on a parite principle, each of the political parties must broadcast its representatives on this committee. I do not know in GERB experts, there may be colleagues who are road engineers and give this expertise which is necessary for the committee. I can't think of a BSP with road engineers, maybe there are, or people who have that expertise. In other parliamentary groups, I also do not know people who have a profession of this purpose. So from this point of view, let's ask ourselves the question: who will be the people who will assess whether they will be technical experts, or whether they will be hearings? That is, we are here in a hypothesis that parity may not be respected in terms of the quality of expertise that these people will have. Secondly, if you are not aware, especially when spending European funds, the levels of checks that pass are at least five or six. That is to say, with this committee, we will to some extent depreciate these control levels of spending each euro or all the funds that are being used, especially in implementing the European programmes. And I can list them to you in addition to the internal audit and control bodies that are in the institutions themselves, the control bodies that are in the management bodies, the control bodies of the National Fund, which is at the Ministry of Finance, the control body of the European Fund Management Unit, which is at the Council of Ministers. From there there is an EUS at national level, without neglecting the possibility of the Court of Auditors and AFFI checking, from then on goes to an audit body, which belongs to the Directorate-General of the European Commission itself. And from there he goes to the Court of Auditors of Europe. And we want to say that Parliament will now set up a committee of inquiry that will be more competent than all these five or six levels that they do every day, they don't do anything else?! There are periods that have been audited. No one will take away the right to political talk either to you or to any of the political parties represented here. Wait for checks to pass, or pick up ready-made ones. That's where it's described. And there really isn't an institution or an agency in the country that doesn't have any gaps. There are probably some, but, as colleague Kirilov said, one part are administrative level, one part are at another level where a mechanism has already been triggered through violations that can be classified as already crimes. No one will take away your right to have political talk about the case. Wait for the checks to pass, wait for normal audits to come out, step on them, analyze them and then do political talk, if you want, and that is your theme. But now let's shift and say that all these control bodies that they have been replaced, and that's all they do, they don't do, take the functions of these control bodies with a committee of inquiry in parliament and say that it will be more competent than all these institutions seems irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Moskovsky. Mr. Genov, come in for a first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Moskovski is absolutely right about the order and manner in which the spending of EU operational programmes is audited. Somewhere that's the way it is with national funding. But I'd like to say, Mr. Moskovski, about the argument you made about the forensics. In the last parliament, you asked for a committee for Belene. To tell me that I don't know who the nuclear specialists are here, in this room and from BSP, or from GERB, or from someone else...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u29	In the previous parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u30	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u31	There weren't any in the previous parliament. Fortunately in our group we now have one, you can use his expertise, so this argument that you give somehow hangs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u32	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Moskovski, you are absolutely right and well followed the steps of the so-called OSEC and so on. You know, I and in the second government under Oresharski was Deputy Minister of Environment, this did not prevent 2013 the first letter I got acquainted with, from the Directorate-General for Regional Development, signed by Dirk Aner, to read: "For extremely serious financial violations, for non-compliance with the principles of equality, for another three-four reasons, for the period 2010 - 2013 we stop the funds under the Operational Programme "Environment". "And then a flat financial correction was imposed." All these mechanisms exist, but we must have the will to improve our work precisely through such actions to give greater publicity and greater transparency to all citizens and all beneficiaries and the European Commission on how we work. So remember this letter, it's very nice and indicative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u34	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Is there a third line? I won't. In essence, the line is an expression of dissent. Mr. Kostadinov expressed complete agreement with what Mr. Moskovski said, including the example he gave. Here you go, Mr. Moskovsky, for the back. Do you wish to take advantage?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u35	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! What I would like to say in the duplicate is that even if it is necessary for Parliament to be involved in its main function by changing any legislation, legislative initiatives or changes to specific regulations, it could happen after a final analysis has been carried out after all checks have been carried out. And no one, again, will limit anyone to having political talk on the subject. However, in my opinion, the proper conduct of parliament is to intervene when there are already established some practices....................... if there will be violations or something else, then you can sit down, do an analysis and say: under this law we must make some adjustment in order for the system to function better. Otherwise, it's almost out right now that only one agency is going in the direction of purpose. If so, let's do a better analysis of all government agencies. There are probably some gaps everywhere and work for all the agencies then. We are going exactly and specifically to one agency to manipulate almost the subject of improving work in others. No one will limit anyone to having political talk, let us make it normal and let Parliament do exactly what its functions are for. If it is seen that there are any violations and problems, to change any regulation, law or regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Moskovsky? The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u37	Mr. President, honourable Members, in my opinion, when a Member of the National Assembly with facts argued without insulting anyone, without making personal attacks, is speaking, the President of the National Assembly should not make ironic remarks to him. And even more so when this MP is having his birthday. Thank you. [[Radio, applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u38	Thank you. Happy birthday to you! I wouldn't be ironic, but more extreme in what I'm about to say, but it was about reminding the procedure what a replica is. You weren't speaking, you were making a line. So I said what the replica procedure contains. Remember the other day what speeches and procedures you made in the manner of conducting a non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure. That's why I reminded you what a line is. Here you are, Mr. Dobrev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, happy birthday to you! My colleagues didn't think to congratulate you. But let's move on to the other part. I have a feeling, colleagues, that you don't understand what this is about, and you're trying to stare here at headlines, phrases, words. Let me just remind you: a year ago, my colleague Zhelyo Boychev and my humble persona put a question to Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, impressed by the fact that a company in such a short time makes a package of public procurement for one billion leva! One billion leva in just a few months "almost as a successful lottery collector!" Or like that aunt from Spain who was enjoying Aunt Goshka, who they imitate every night. Almost like Aunt Goshka makes a billion in a week! About a year ago, I received an answer consisting of four words, Mrs. Pavlova, and you texted me: Why is that? Check your website with public procurement. As a MP, I ask the Minister a question: what is going on in this company, and you answer me to go through some website and collect my information.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u40	Please, today's procedure, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u41	I have a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u42	Yeah, but you have to argue...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u43	It's Nasko's birthday. I have a speech. [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u44	It's not your birthday, I hope.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u45	After all this, after 11 months the Prosecutor's Office enters the API (Agency of the Road Infrastructure) on this issue, together with OLAF (European Anti-Fraud Office) and SANS (National Security Agency) and gives information that public procurement is being negotiated in the API! Talks are being held and public procurement is being given to certain companies! And they say that clearly. API's boss says he's informing you of what's going on! And you ask me: why are we making the Commission in question?! This Commission we are doing it to see who has political responsibility to bring out and make such laws, Mr. Kirilov, to fix these things, not to happen again! The prosecution and the court are responsible for criminal liability, and we, as National Assembly, are responsible for political responsibility. That's why we want this Commission. And this is where the evidence begins. May he rest in peace with Dimcho Michalevski how long he spent on this stands to say that in the highways it is because they are, and precisely because they were right, so I say, ashes are being put! Who drove on the Bulgarian highways and didn't bounce his head off? Who? Who didn't get seasick? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Tell me a highway that's open and not closed two months later for repairs! One highway tell me, a precinct that isn't closed for repairs after that! The highways are the pride of Borisov and 1, and 2. We are all waiting for Borisov 3. Don't look at me sadly, I miss you too, but we have to resolve this.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u46	Mr. Dobrev, please focus on the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u47	I wish Borisov 3 would continue with this pride, because both I and my family want to go on nice roads. Let this Commission, however, answer just one question: how much does this pride cost the Bulgarian people?! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. - What's the line? I won't. [[(Replyes and shouts from the BSP for ……]] Mrs. Petkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u49	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I wasn't going to take any part in your proposal, but I think things have already gone to their extremes and have to be named after their real names. First of all, I would like to say that I do not support such a request for the establishment of such a Commission and I will argue. It is not clear: for what reason did you happen to want this Temporary Commission set up? [[Voices from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u50	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u51	As I recall, the file of information and offers regarding the highway "Struma" disappeared during the caretaker government. Isn't that right? That's my memory. If you have any other information you have that we don't know, please say so. Since the analogy has been made several times with the Search Commission for the nuclear power plant Belene, colleagues, let me remind you of a few things. This inquiry committee was linked to all the facts and circumstances regarding this project. Under the circumstances and facts, checks of all control bodies that have the competence to do so shall be understood. Claims that are not somehow so in the air, but proven statements, with clear names of people, positions and periods in which gross violations of public procurement legislation and other regulations have been committed. Therefore, honourable Members, let us allow the control bodies to do their work - they are the competent institutions. Nothing's gonna stay hidden. The result of their work is public, so you will all have the opportunity to meet both us and you with what you have doubts about. But let's let the control bodies work for what they were created for, not turn parliament into a fellow court of law. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u52	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova. - What's the line? Here you go. Mrs. Dukova, even if it isn't your birthday, I'll remind you that the line is a statement of disagreement with the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u53	No doubt, Mr. Chairman. Unlike some colleagues, I think...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u54	You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u55	...that I know what a line is and what a statement is. Turn to the other colleagues. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think this tribune is a big responsibility. I think that when we stand up here and seek political responsibility, because there is no other,... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm addressing Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u56	To Mrs. Petkova! You should turn to Mrs. Petkova. Mrs. Petkova spoke earlier.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u57	When you stand on that stand, you have to make some serious arguments. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But first you have to have the morals to do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u58	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u59	To be my people who, like Shipka's militia,...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u60	Mrs. Dukova, the line is for Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u61	...they'll bring out alive and dead because they don't have any other arguments, it's a shame! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because if you had done as much as Borisov's cabinet, today there would not be a TSM-gate and all other actions. [[BSP banks for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u62	Mrs. Dukova, I'll take your word for it. Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u63	I remember a committee we made and investigated Mrs. Nino and Mr. Stanishev. Unfortunately, I... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u64	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u65	...the answers that came out of this committee didn't carry the value that... [[Noise, lines and applause for breaking the line of the National Representative Snezhana Dukova. The MP continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u66	Mrs. Dukova, thank you. [[The National Representative Snezana Dukova continues to speak with microphones off.]] Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) National Representative Snezana Dukova continues to speak with microphones off.)]] Thank you, Mrs. Dukova! [[Extreme lines from BSP for Bulgaria. National Representative Snezana Dukova continues to speak with microphones off.]] Thank you, dear Mrs. Dukova. Are there any other lines to Mrs. Petkova? Mrs. Petkova, will you take advantage of your right to the back of your coat? Will you take advantage of your right to dodge, Mrs. Petkova? ▪ No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you. Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u67	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor to speak on the Project to set up this Temporary Commission to ask you to use an archin for all problems. When it is said that there are violations that have been established by control authorities in one of the committees, I ask myself: why there are no consequences for them, no arrests, no fined!? Moreover, the man who was then chairman of one of the agencies could ask for responsibilities and could be paid. That's the suggestion! Not what we do. These are the suggestions we've heard from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u68	Let's get back to the subject, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u69	I ask you very much, I argue very well why we want this Commission and why I think there are double arsins when some committees are adopted and others are quitting. You remember in the past the National Assembly when we set up a poll committee for Bobov Dol?! You remember that thing!? There were no checks, or there were no cases where this was found, or there was a problem, and we tried in parliament because we have specialists and miners here every second is like that, to see what happens in the mines in Bobov Dol. [[GERB lines.]] Please very much, let us, when we leave here, speak politically, because we are a political body. We are a body that needs to explore the problems and see where there are gaps in legislation in order to obtain such leaks and such problems. When we talk about highways, we're not talking about square meters of asphalt, we're not talking about kilometers of length, we're talking about spending public resources there. Money is being spent, billions! These billions must be spent transparently, spent so that people, when traveling on highways, can travel on highways, not on repair roads. In order for this to happen, there must have been gaps, there must have been violations! I want one of you to become honest here and tell me: the highways in Bulgaria are highways!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u70	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u71	Or to tell me: the highways in Bulgaria meet all the requirements that a highway must meet, including parking lots, toilets, gas stations, smooth asphalt?! [[Heckling]] It's all a myth! And because this myth exists, we, as people here, have gathered to look for options to improve the situation so that people can travel on these highways, as Mr. Dobrev said, do not get their necks unhinged from right-hand traffic and be able to go from point A to point B and there can be real roads and highways, because besides the highways there are other roads that are much more important perhaps from the road from Sofia to Burgas, because they connect separate villages, individual cities and people there have no other way to move, it is necessary that we, as a political authority, consider all the gaps that have happened if they do. I wouldn't mind if the Commission came out after that if it didn't find gaps and violations, but you know that it will, and that's why you don't support it. And then, let's tell people: look, we, as Parliament, have heard, understood that there are problems, we are trying legislatively to find those solutions that will help us in the future to have these problems gone, not to have the path of love. Do you remember this path of love from the highway of Maritsa? [[Heckling]] No bumps on the highways, no holes, no repairs on the second month, no gas stations on the roads, no toilets on the parking lot, so we can really be a civilized country with our normal roads. Therefore, please be sincere to yourself, and if you do not want to support this Commission, do not take out nine wells of water. Say, "We are afraid of the results, and therefore we will not support it! " Otherwise, by voting, we'll know whether you're afraid or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u72	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] - What's the line? National Representative Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! You just couldn't hear me, now I'm going to try to speak a little louder so you can listen to me carefully. Exactly the people who, for all the years of government, made only one highway to Pravets, and because your leader once said that he would go to his residence, and tell me about what highways you were doing and what wasn't the rule, well, I apologize, colleagues, you seem to have forgotten what it was ten years ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u74	This is for Mr. Ermenkov, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u75	To Mr. Ermenkov, because his reply is almost that the Parliament with the Commission, which we will eventually create, will decide whether the highway will be woolly, whether there will be toilets!? Are you serious about this, Mr. Ermenkov, that this thing can be done by Parliament!? Are you serious? It's just madness and insolence, people who don't... You've had five terms of management, five times in government over the last 27 years, 28, and what have you done? Zero! [[Relations from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.]] You were going to give Trakiya highway for over a billion dollars on a concession to a Portuguese company! That's what you were gonna do! [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let's see what GERB has done for ten years in three governments?! Bulgaria has become a modern state! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah. Do you remember what this was about, Mr. Ermenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u76	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u77	Do you remember what Sophia looked like ten years ago? Shame on you! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria. Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u78	Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I couldn't understand the connection of what Mr. Nenkov said to the Commission. Probably Mr. Nenkov, traveling on the highways, remembers that sometimes he has to stop for a toilet and, if there are little children, I don't know where he does it?! This, as I say, is just one of the results of the lack of good enough rules for highway construction. This is one of the examples, Mr. Nenkov! Parliament will not make the rules on how and where to have toilets, but parliament can make those laws that highway builders comply with in order to have highways, not four-band roads with a dividing line in the middle. As for Sofia, Mr. Nenkov, I remember very well what Sofia was like, and now you try to pass on this side of the National Assembly, before the Synod, without breaking your legs on the sidewalks to see what Sofia is about! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u80	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Any other speeches? To speak, the people representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u81	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are all witnessing what our colleagues on the left want to provoke to be able to be noticed, to be able to erase the shame of losing these parliamentary elections and, of course, to have nothing else to present to their Bulgarian voters for what they have done or what they could do. Dear colleagues from BSP, I would remind you that there are actually sections of the highways where colleagues say that they may feel a little uncomfortable, but these are the sections that were built precisely by the Stanishev cabinet. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria. Applause by GERB.]] This is exactly the area around Stara Zagora. Let us also recall the section that was around the Maritsa Highway. I just want to remind you that this discomfort is for a very short period of time, because the highways that you made were 80 kilometers and were at three times higher prices, while the management of GERB for all these years managed to build highways and road infrastructure from 300 kilometers. We have much more road safety, reducing the concentration of heavy crashes and sacrifices we make on the roads. What is extremely important to remind you Did you forget about Tsankov Stone? Did you forget it? Sixteen kilometers of two-band road for 100 million leva. What's right, gentlemen on the left? Have you forgotten this period? [[Applause from GERB.]] The right to have speeches on this topic can be the colleagues from the "United patriots" who have not actually participated in government with ministers, and the colleagues from the "Volja" and you - colleagues from the BSP, just solve the internal political problems and do not transfer them here from the parliamentary tribune, and talk about what GERB has done for all these years as governance. We have received the support once again from over a million voters! You won't be able to reach that number. You're moving around him, but you're starting to fall headlong down again. What is extremely important to know: the office at the moment, did we all witness the offer, which was on the Lot of Struma, as I recall, and do you know where the documents were found, colleagues? You know what? In the person who was Secretary General of API in Stanishev's government, on the emblem of BSP! [[Applause from GERB.]] Colleagues, this is the valuer in which the documents from the highway were found. And here I can tell you that we would hate to get a penalty and lose 250 million. lv. And this is thanks to you, to your footage, which you give to be either evaluators, or to participate in the management through the back door, from where you entered the office of Prof. Gerjikov. Colleagues, please, let's talk objectively about things! Political party GERB managed to restore confidence in Brussels. Political party GERB managed to restore the EU funds that were stopped by the government Stanishev due to corruption and doubts about corruption. Both Mrs. Lili Pavlova and her entire team, Mr. Rosen Plevneliev and Ekaterina Zaharieva, were the people who returned the trust and funds were released. We managed to make these 300 km with European money, not with the money of the Bulgarian taxpayer. And just to remind you that when you had the opportunity to rule again with the strange coalition that you had then.. 2013-2014, colleagues, did you forget that on the highway of Struma, on the new section you stopped working? You just wanted to take the commissions safely or you just wanted to re-enter the regime: we increase the price, as you did for the highway at the beginning when you had the opportunity to manage with the Stanishev cabinet. Colleagues, we did what we did after the Borisov 2 cabinet came back is to be able to prioritize this section. It was realized and was released with worthy Minister Lily Pavlova. And you have no right to be judges! That you are experiencing catharsis, that you want in one form or another to hide behind some shadow, no one will let you! And from this parliamentary tribune: Political party GERB and MPs from GERB, who have public support, will continue to work only and only guided by the interest of Bulgarian citizens. We will be able to account for visible results, not like you, who we know that everything is stopping with you and you have nothing to show, but today you can be judges?! Remember, you've ruled five times and five times you've led our country to bankruptcy. Thank you. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. A line? Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u83	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, of course, I respect your aplomb and your desire to protect Mrs. Pavlova. A little more humble! In the end... [[Calls from the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u84	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u85	There's a signal, Mr. Tsvetanov. As I understand it, today I learned that there is a signal, but there is nothing to do with the BSP, nothing to do with the election campaign, nothing to do with Stanishev's management or Oresharski's management. Here we really have a problem. I see you're familiar with the commission, how it slows down and so on. We don't understand that. [[Relations and excitement in BG of BSP for Bulgaria.]] It is important for us to build quality, Mr. Tsvetanov. Why? Because when you really travel, despite the repairs, to Stara Zagora, it is impossible to drive in the right lane. Moreover, Mr. Tsvetanov, this is what all the voters ask him that it is not normal when you go from Stara Zagora to Sofia not to be able to get on the Maritsa Highway. After all, it's normal to have a clover. It is also normal to have more inclusions in these highways, but it is the fact that it is being built poorly. Perhaps the problem, that is precisely the purpose of this committee and to see you boast at the lowest price. The lowest price then leads to further repairs, repairs, repairs... It's a shame when you find the Maritsa to fall, the bridges are out of order, to close the highway. That's what we want. You do not respect or enter into this political clash because you are really relieved. After all, you are the chairman of the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u86	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Second line supplied by national representative Stanislav Ivanov, third supposed by Kiril Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, other things could be said from this tribune. It could have been said about the Lulin Highway how they found it twice in five kilometers. Twice she was discovered by Stanishev and the Minister of Regional Development at the time. And another very important thing, Mr. Tsvetanov, should be said by this tribune that before the second cabinet of Mr. Borisov were again stopped the EU funds. I didn't hear that from you. Replices, calls from BSP for Bulgaria.) This is something that is extremely important in Oresharski's time all EU funds have been stopped again, so when it is spoken, it must come to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u88	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Third line.. People's representative Kiril Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u89	To tell you the truth, I'm genuinely entertained by this tape thing. If it were you, you'd be cutting them up every five meters. There's no point in talking about tapes!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u90	I'm asking for Mr. Tsvetanov's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u91	Mr. Tsvetanov, you don't have to worry about our organizational condition. We're on the rise and we're working well. [[Noise and lines.]] It's our problem we'll deal with, internal party. As for commissions, as Drago says, you're a specialist, you understand things. However, I would like to touch on a very important issue and it is about the stopped European funds and how we are being stopped, you are being released and that we are some anti-European party. Dear colleagues, if we are such, why are you constantly asking Denitsa Zlateva to stay in your office and to deal with European issues? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u92	Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov. After that, the speech of the MP Cornelia Ninova. [[Call from GERB: Put them on the spot! Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u93	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u94	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thank you for the recommendation of my colleague Stanislav Ivanov. I will also correct myself in further speeches to be able to say as much as possible. Thank you for that criticism. As far as BSP colleagues are concerned: colleagues, as far as Denitsa Zlateva is concerned, I will start from the better part. We always say that we should look for points around which we can unite, not oppose. And what Mr. Borisov has done is that he can actually have this continuity because it is a national cause and I hope that it is also for you, because for us it is a priority. We do not want to give an assessment to Mrs. Zlateva here, but we wanted to show that this is indeed the topic that you expressed publicly in your political statements that this will be a priority and will receive from the government full support. This is something we need to unite around. Clearly, your approach and mentality is to be able to destroy, to sow hatred and to bring division. We, from the parliamentary group of GERB, want our country to be stable, we want to work in a way that we can do, and we have proved it in all these years with the support we received from the Bulgarian voters. The democratic approach in some elections is when they are won, the parliamentary power given to make the appropriate cabinet. Tomorrow the cabinet will be voted Borisov 3. And I assure you that we will do everything we can to limit ourselves to the possibility of making your mistakes, to make our mistakes, if we have already made them, but today from this parliamentary tribune to behave in this way, colleagues, this is not serious! You're actually still in pre-election. The election's over. Mr. Dobrev, did you forget that you lost a bet with me? You have fulfilled your commitment and sent a gift to GERB headquarters. Did you admit that? Well, what condition are you talking about? You don't have a condition! [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You simply managed to win the presidential election and believed that this was your support for all these Bulgarian voters. No, no! Nobody wants to go back BSP to power. [[Applause on the right]] because everyone knows that the BSP can only bring our country back from the only possible path to Europe, and you are the people who want to lead us away from it. We will not allow it and with the cabinet Borisov 3 we will show that our country will really be an example in the European Union, both under policies and with the upcoming Presidency, together with Estonia and Austria to make a strong position that Bulgaria can stand up for and all of us MPs to be proud of. I would also like to ask you here: we hope for your support as well, because you know that in the division of the committees we have even provided for you to borrow the committee that is for the European Presidency and not because you deserve it, but because we believe that this is the democratic and civilised way of working for a parliamentary group which is part of the strong and united Europe and we are members of the European People's Party! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u95	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'd divide the discussion into two. One is continuing the bad practice of the Forty-third National Assembly to hit the bottom with a low level of discussion, with elementary examples, with unprincipled opposition, with unprincipled years of return. On this subject I will not pay much attention because we want to give another quality to the Forty-fourth National Assembly, but of course I will not miss it just like that. I will only recall one fact of the topic "Commision deals, who did what. " Just one name to recall: Simitli, and a major highway builder with a direct confession on the air [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] how it is built and why it is built by GERB, and stop with the yellows. I start with the serious topics that Mr. Tsvetanov put to the stopped EU funds of BSP and the government of Stanishev, and those of Borisov. The fact has stopped, they have frozen the payments under the Programme of the Science Program of Borisov 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u97	And all of Stanishev's programs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u98	The second question "five times BSP has managed and five times it has led the country to bankruptcy. The governments of Boyko Borisov ruled twice and resigned twice. [[GERB lines.]] One time because of self-burning Bulgarians [[GERB noise and lines]] The only case in Bulgarian history; the second time because of lost elections by BSP. Facts I report without commenting. And the most serious of all. Mr. Tsvetanov, I am terribly disappointed that you are returning to the style of previous meetings, which, for the second time this week, I say, led to seven convictions in Europe because of his, issued by this tribune, sentences, and pays them all. You say that we have no right in this Parliament to be judges, to have a position, to express an opinion and to ask for committees. How can we not have the right, since we are here on behalf of a million Bulgarians?! You say, "We mustn't divide the nation." By what right do you say to these one million Bulgarians: "You, your representatives here on the left, have no right to speak?"
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u99	You're right.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u100	Some bizarre division you have of the person at the same time we will unite the people, and you say to a million Bulgarians: You are not! [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Next topic is the office Gerdzhikov. Let's stop with the gum. Not what we say is important, not what you say. What Mr. Gerdjikov said right here is important. And he said: "Many times I have heard and seen Mr. Borisov and not once with Mrs. Ninova for ten years. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This person, when I asked him, "Bring out the truth about Bulgaria's debt from which banks you took it, for what interest, when will we pay it?" Informing the public what a political order is due, asking for public information from a party leader, but when you send a text message, the one who criticizes me is executed. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The conclusion is yours. Denitsa Zlateva was a commitment and understanding. It's an unprincipled retreat from election commitments. This is the status quo of the twenty-seven years, which I have already had occasion to talk about before the elections all against each other with terrible aggression, and always in the name of the people, after the elections all together in the soprata, including my invitation to this highest place, against the people. Is that what you call continuity?! Why do you want to destroy democratic Bulgaria, where there is a government ruling and opposition? Why do you want to destroy normality to have a right and a left to give people an alternative?! For one reason only: because you silenced everyone. Because you silenced the patriots because you silenced Volya and because you still have the only alternative BSP and you want to trap her so you don't have an alternative. That's the big question about coalitions. [[Noise and lines from GERB. The Chairman gives a signal that the time has run out.]] It is not about continuity, it is not about demonstration of attitude, but about breaking democratic rules and not giving an alternative to the Bulgarian people for choice. Understand that this will not work for you with the Bulgarian Socialist Party, not because we are destructive, but because we are principled, because we cannot say to these million people: "Today we were with you, from tomorrow we are against you, with Boyko Borisov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u101	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u102	There's no way that's gonna happen, and because we're about changing the status quo, the political class... It's an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u103	Extension, but your speaking time is up. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Five minutes to speak... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u104	...who always finds a way to unite unprincipledly against his people. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's what BSP's putting an end to! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u105	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Continue the time of the BSP for Bulgaria and all other groups. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Why did you interrupt it?"]] Because there are five minutes to speak. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please refer to the Rules of Procedure on how many speeches are made by the Members of the National Assembly. Are there any lines? I won't. Come in for a personal explanation, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u106	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, I believe that the information you provide here from the parliamentary tribune is very chaotic and untrue. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The way you're making accusations against me personally, I don't think it's objective. What you're doing in your morning classes is explaining how someone from BSP [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] He pressured you to make a coalition with GERB. Just to clarify something very important - never, on any occasion, the parliamentary group of GERB or GERB has considered joint management with BSP [[Applause from GERB]] because we do not want to be with your methods and with your style of work, but we want to be a democratic party, to be a party that respects European principles and not what you explain in the studios, and you say that now, at the moment, the problem that BSP has is that someone has actually pressured you at the beginning of the consultations that were held between political parties, to participate in governance with GERB. Mrs. Ninova, you may want to, but that's not gonna happen. [[Reply: "Bravo!" and applause by GERB.]] What you said about over one million voters who have GERB, yes, this is a very strong result that we have once again. And what you have as public support, we always treat all Bulgarian voters with respect and respect, regardless of which party they voted for, because this was given to us by democracy, and it was not taken away from us by democracy, as you expressed it in the election campaign. [[Applause from GERB.]] As far as all these committees are concerned, Mrs. Ninova, we are exclusively with an extended hand to any problem that we can solve together. And despite this sharpness that you have in your speech, despite the fact that you want to divide, to oppose, we are again with an extended hand because we know that we are all part of the success and development of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Reply: Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u108	Thank you, fellow Members. Dear Mr. President, I urge you to suspend the application of a double standard when holding the meeting by you. I ask you to limit Mr. Tsvetanov's right to shout, to edify, to give assessments and sentences from the stands of the National Assembly. The bets between Mr. Tsvetanov and Mr. Dobrev are not the subject of parliamentary activity. In Pazardzhik Mr. Tsvetanov promised me that I would remain an ordinary driver of a motor vehicle, but, as you can see, we meet here now. Please insist! We're scaring people. Imagine some nice old lady from the Northwest who's using the possibilities of multiplex and watching or listening to Mrs. Karayancheva's advice and turning on her powerful computer and hearing these threats?! Well, her chickens will stop carrying. [[Radio.]] Please, Mr. Glauchev, stop and don't tolerate one at the expense of another. Thank you. [[(Radio.) Claps from BSP for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u109	Mr. Velkov, I suggest that after the meeting we examine with you the video and audio recording and show me where I tolerate one at the expense of another. [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] I won't give you a personal explanation, Mrs. Ninova. [[Heckling]] A personal explanation of a personal explanation will not go into a stunt from what happened the other day. Mr. Ermenkov, what do you want the floor for? The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am taking a procedure really in the manner of conduct to note to you that what Mr. Velkov told you is absolutely true. You allowed the chair of your parliamentary group's speech to exceed time by more than 40 seconds the first time, without even paying attention to it, by 12 seconds the second time, while you cut us in a second. It's over in a second and you turn off the microphone. Secondly, very strict clues as to whether we are taking the right procedure, but when they got up here to take the floor for a personal explanation, instead of finding out if the person was affected by the fact that we said that seven times Bulgaria was convicted because of it, he allowed himself to talk about topics that had nothing to do with how we affected him personally and did not comment on it. If you now return the video, take the transcript, and read the statement as a personal explanation, you will see that there was nothing personal there, neither personal nor explanation. Please, I understand that it is difficult to take the floor of the chair of your parliamentary group that has broadcast you as President of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u111	To me, to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u112	... and make remarks to him, but still take on the role of President of the National Assembly, and then in your parliamentary group act as a member of the GERB group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u113	I suggest, apart from Mr. Velkov and you, that we take a look at the video with journalists. If you find something like that, I'll apologize. Otherwise, I'll ask you for an apology.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u114	I don't mind. It's a deal!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u115	You're welcome, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u116	Dear Mr. President, as President of the National Assembly, the highest authority in a parliamentary republic, please pay attention when a million Bulgarians are called by the quality. In his speech Mr. Tsvetanov said that no one wanted BSP to rule, in fact to be in power. Those were the exact words. One million Bulgarians wished this thing, and if for Mr. Tsvetanov one million are a person, then for us these million Bulgarians are the people who sent us here and the people whose interests we protect not only theirs but also all Bulgarians. You, as President of the National Assembly, should respect this fact and remind it when one of the tribune speculates in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any other procedures, statements? Come in, Mr. Mareshki. [[(Radio.) Noise.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It has been said that even in the forty-fourth National Assembly you are doing your best to reach the bottom. Once we get there, except to dig down, there's nothing more to happen. In order to be able to bounce from the bottom, however, I call you from time to time... [[Shouting.]] That kind of yelling from a place like this doesn't... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u119	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u120	...to look a little at the back of the center of the hall... [[Noise, lines, cheering.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u121	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u122	If you watched carefully, what's happening now wouldn't happen. You would've noticed upbringing, abstinence, not in vain excitement... [[Noise.]] First seven years... [[Noise, laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u123	Mr. Mareshki, wait a minute for the room to calm down and I'll give you the floor. Stop the speaker's time. We will continue as soon as the necessary order is established in this Chamber. You have the floor, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u124	I repeat: you will need to spend a little more time on this part of the room so that you can take a positive example. Let's go back because we forgot what we were talking about. We're talking about the request for a commission. From the speeches so far, I have learned that in the various years of government one has touched in healthcare, another in one highway, third in the third. In fact, the main thing is that it is hardly only if we are moving along the highways in some sections, some MPs are getting high because some are moving along the highways most Bulgarians do not have this opportunity. However, we notice that, apart from some problems in road construction, there are no smaller problems in health care systems, because some people have headaches, and after they get high, they cannot go to a doctor because they are denied healthcare. There is insufficient and untimely drug supply. You all know very well about the problems in education, in the pension system, and so on, let's not spell them out. As it was seen, this dispute was corrupted because it was more of a political event. I didn't know it would go like this, and I couldn't prepare my own props so I could go out and read them loud. I call on you to set up a committee to investigate the entire transition and the problems in all the systems managed by all governments so far? Twenty-seven years, because twenty-seven years later we are again starting to talk about new reforms, about the revival of education...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u125	Mr. Mareshki, let's get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u126	The theme is on the committee. I propose a committee not on a specific issue, but on the whole transition to investigate health care, education, pension, judicial system and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u127	Thank you. There is a corresponding order for such a proposal, not from the parliamentary tribune. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I will present to you the draft decision submitted by my colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria. ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the establishment of deficiencies and violations in the activities of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the former National Company "Strategic Infrastructure Projects" in the implementation and implementation of procedures for the construction of highways and roads. The National Assembly, on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He established a Temporary Commission for the identification of deficiencies and violations in the activities of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the former National Company "Strategic and Infrastructure Projects" in the implementation and implementation of procedures for the construction of highways and roads. 2. The Temporary Commission should be aware of the information and signals of poor performance of construction works in the construction of the highways of Maritsa, Trakia, Struma, and of compliance with the warranty deadlines fixed in the implementation contracts, according to the Law on Construction of the territory. 3. The Temporary Commission shall verify the contracts for the ongoing maintenance of the Republican Road Network and shall entrust them with construction and installation activities in violation of the Roads Act and the Construction Act in the territory. 4. The Temporary Commission shall establish whether there are practices in the contracts already concluded, new stages and sections which are essentially new construction sites should be subject to self-deployment and whether there are breaches in the selection of subcontractors and suppliers without the existence of approved work projects. 5. The temporary committee shall draw up a report on the results of the work, findings made, detected infringements and proposals to take appropriate measures by the responsible institutions. 6. The temporary committee is set up on a parietal principle by two MPs from each parliamentary group. ... 8. The temporary committee shall be set up for a period of 3 months. We vote on this part of the project. If the people's representation decides to set up such a Commission, we will move on to the selection of leadership and composition of the Temporary Commission, which is that. 7 of the offer. Please vote on the creation or not of the Commission so proposed. Vote 219 MPs: 93 against 101, abstention 25. The proposal to set up the Commission has not been accepted. The motion is rejected. Moving on to the next point: Hearing of the Deputy Prime Minister for Home Affairs and Security and Minister of Defence Stefan Yanev, as well as of the Minister of Interior Plamen Uzunov on the protection of national security, ensuring the security of the state border, the carried out personnel policy, and the resource security of the two departments. [[People representatives from GERB, "BSP for Bulgaria", "United Patriarchs" and "Volja" leave the Chamber.]] Are the ministers here? Apparently they're not in the National Assembly building. I'll call half an hour's rest until 11.05. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u128	Moving on to: HEARING AND THE MINISTER OF THE INTERNAL WORKS PLASME UZUNOV WITH REGARD TO THE PROTECTION OF NATIONAL SECURITY, THE SECURITY OF THE STATE BORDER, THE COMPLETION OF CADROA POLICY, AND THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE TWO EVENTS. I'm gonna say a few words about the procedure the way it's gonna go. I'll give the importer five minutes to justify his questions to the two ministers. Within 10 minutes you will have five minutes each, to justify and answer. Then we start the questions from each parliamentary group on one question to each minister from each parliamentary group, the first round, the second round again on one question to each minister, and then I will give the floor for each parliamentary group to the two ministers within five minutes. Here you are, Mr. Gadget, for the motivation of asking. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] For the procedure, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u129	Thank you, Madam President. In view of the importance of the topic we will be discussing and that we have all declared a positive attitude towards it and a national consensus on national security, we ask and propose that the hearing be broadcast directly on BNT 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u130	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Please vote on the procedure for direct transmission of the hearing. They voted 119 MPs: 58, against 27, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote please, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u131	Honourable President, take your part, invite the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u132	That's what I'm doing, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u133	I'm asking you to conduct a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u134	Thank you. Revoting procedure. Vote 148 MPs: 68, Against 41, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Gazhev, for a presentation of the questions within five minutes to the two ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u135	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! The reason for the proposal for a hearing that we have tabled is that the protection of national security is one of the main obligations of each government. The implementation of a responsible, transparent policy and the establishment of long-term programmes in the field are defined by a politically elected government and are conducted before continuous parliamentary control, which is a guarantee of maintaining proper policy development and, above all, of achieving the necessary capabilities both in the field of defence and in the law enforcement authorities of the country. One of our main concerns in the field was precisely the lack of any control and transparency in the activities that have been carried out by you within the last three months. This concerns us and we would like to hear your report in the areas that you have finished, especially given the situation in the area where we are in Bulgaria, what is happening with the refugee pressure on the country. There were various speculations about the effectiveness of security at the state border. At the moment, soldiers are pulling out of border guards, and that's what's bothering us, so you think we don't have to guard the border anymore in this regard? Also, 160 million were granted in December last year. EUR to purchase abilities and equipment to guard the border what happens to this money? Time is running out, the end of the year is coming, and procedures need to be implemented in order to still be able to absorb the funds, otherwise we will lose not only by technique but also by trust from our European partners. From another point of view, personnel policy is extremely important in every sector in order for the departments to perform their tasks quality. Unfortunately, the number of staff dismissals carried out by the two ministers and appointments for such a short term of government for three months do not correspond to the requirements of long-term sustainability in this activity. A brief introduction of the reasons for the dismissals has shown that they are not motivated enough, do not meet the requirements for preparing and developing the personnel such as all this leads to blocking the systems, and most likely to block the activities of the future management and thus bet on, literally, go to the next management. The resources provision of the two sectors is extremely important in the area of the budget and given that in the Ministry of Defence by order of the Minister of Defence increased the proportion by 30 BGN. for soldiers and civilians, which is basically the right decision, and it must come to an increase in the wages of the servicemen, but with us there is confusion, given that we have participated in the preparation of the budget, how these savings will actually be made and how much this will not affect the ability of the next government to pay the salaries of the servicemen and to limit the conduct of a chamber policy for the appointment of new servicemen in the formations. The above examples in this regard, as well as the cancellation of PMS 208, its replacement with another PMS also arouses a lack of transparency as to how it is actually managed by the refugee flow and the accommodation of refugees on the territory of Bulgaria. This lack of transparency only raises questions within us that we will further develop. All of these examples cause concern in us and at the beginning of taking political responsibility for the state's state at the dawn of the government of Borisov 3, we will define your questions so that we are aware of what situation we enter into power, what you have done in these three months, so that there is something that is right, to have continuity, but also to know exactly what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. I give the floor five minutes to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Yanev and then to the Interior Minister Mr. Uzunov. Here you go, Mr. Janev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the questions asked, as national security is undoubtedly an important priority for all of us, regardless of our case, whether we are part of the caretaker government or in this case, we are talking about legislative bodies and about new governance. Of course, all these topics need to be clarified clearly enough and to assess the extent to which what the caretaker government has done warrants a certain continuity or change of policies if it is considered useful. There really were a lot of questions. I will try to divide them on topics, as I have personally devoted a few topics to the issue and will concentrate on them, assuming that then and then, when my colleague, the interior minister, concerns the subject of the border, I can also include myself at the second stage on what is going on there. Starting with the border, I would like to highlight the moment that has been mentioned here that this is about pulling people out of there. As you all know, security at the national border, namely the southern part, where over the years there has been the most serious migration stream, is a joint task of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence for several years. This task is invariably for implementation before the authorities and relevant structures of the two ministries. In this sense, during the term of office of the caretaker government, its parameters have not been substantially altered, excluding taking account of the current situation and reporting on the migration flow. In the question that is asked that there are withdrawals of people from the border: yes, there is such withdrawal, but it is rather the result of internal rotation of forces and is not done unilaterally by the Ministry of Defence without consulting the Ministry of Interior. On the contrary, it is a process that lasted more than a month in coordination with the two ministries, as a result of the analysis that makes Border Police as the main officer in charge of border security. Taking into account all the trends in the migration process and what is happening at the moment, such an analysis has been carried out, appropriate correspondence has been made between the two ministries and a joint decision has been prepared, which the Minister of Defence took and implemented about ten days ago. It's about withdrawing one contingent from special forces from the 68th Brigade. Again, I am telling you that this withdrawal of these 30 people does not in any way alter the conditions of security at the border, as their commitments and tasks have been undertaken and have already been compensated by other specialists from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. In addition, we have a solution and there is a preparation currently being made, this is to say..................................... to be taken by other specialists who are in preparation and will take this commitment further. Several data and characteristics of the need for motivation of this decision. Until 27 April 2017, in the joint task of guarding the national border with the Republic of Turkey, 261 troops were involved, 33 of the Special Forces brigade, their tasks related to the conduct of joint patrols with border police officers, self- patrols to monitor, set up secret surveillance posts, carry out special intelligence and provide logistical support to the authorities of the Border Police Directorate. On the other hand, in 2017 [[the President signals that time has run out]] , the commitments of the Armed Forces have very much increased, including the 68th Brigade "Special Forces" in joint preparations and international exercises with NATO allies outside and on the territory of the country. I will not list the exercises, but their total number is 13 national, 6 fields, 6 international and 3 international preparations, as well as a certification exercise monitored by NATO. At the same time, both all units of the Armed Forces and in the "Special Forces" brigade, there is a particular incompletion and it is problematic to fill with personnel, which in practice leads to 100% of the servicemen involved in organizing, preparing and participating in events. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] At present, the brigade remains ready to use within a short period of time a tactical group for special operations in the NATO response force and prepares another tactical group for NATO response forces. In addition, troops from the brigade are also involved in the NATO stabilisation force operation in Kosovo, preparing for their rotation. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u138	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You will have the opportunity to answer the questions indefinitely. Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Interior Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u139	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have prepared answers to all the parliamentary questions that have been submitted to the Ministry of Interior and they will take place today in the National Assembly. I will focus only on a few highlights of the Ministry of Interior's activities for the period from 27 January 2017 to the present time, especially on ensuring public order and security at the time, preparation and holding of parliamentary elections, countering crime, migration pressure and other points related to personnel policy. As a result of the measures taken and preliminary preparations, the Ministry of Interior has carried out its tasks in ensuring public order, security, fire safety and protection of the population during the preparation and conduct of the elections. The country's electoral process was ensured. In due time, the preliminary organisation and the assessment of the necessary forces and means allowed for full implementation of security events in relation to the elections. Some numbers. The signals in connection with election violations were a total of 945, compared to the period of the previous parliamentary elections on 5 October 2014, they were 877, or an increase of 7.8 percent. Total number of pre-trial proceedings: 99 in number compared to 73 in previous parliamentary elections, or an increase of 35.6 percent. The pre-trial proceedings are 94 vs 70, respectively, or an increase of 34.3 per cent. The arrests in the elections were a total of 32 against 17 in 2014, or an increase of 88.2. The Preventive Activity supposed Warning Protocols under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act, 3769 compared to 1461 or an increase of 158%. With regard to limiting the migration pressure, the number of persons detained at the entrance to the Bulgarian-Turkish border for the period from January 1st 2017 to April 20, 2017 is 294. Compared to the same period last year, the figures were 1459 or a reduction of 79.8 percent. The number of detained persons at the exit of the Bulgarian Serb border is 1420 for that period compared to 2044 for 2016 or a decrease of 30.5%. As regards conventional crime: statistical data as of 20 April 2017, compared to data for the same period of 2016, outline a downward trend in registered conventional crime while taking into account an increase in detection rate. In deliberate killings, they were 40 per cent, compared to 52 per 2016 or 23.1 per cent reduction, with a revealing rate rising by 10.4 per cent. In the robberies the figures were 498 registered robberies compared to 596 for the same period of 2016 or a decrease of 16.4 percent, with the rate of disclosure increased by 3.2 points. In the case of thefts, they are 10995 per piece, compared to 14028 or a decrease of 21,6 per cent, with an increase in disclosure rate by 7.1 per cent. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The damage to motor vehicles was 737 for 2017, compared to the same period for 2016 was 10053 or a 30% decrease, with a clearance rate rising by 3.8%. In the course of road traumatism, statistics indicate reductions in all indicators. The number of heavy road accidents registered was 1382 compared to 1615 for 2016 or a decrease of 14.6 points. The number of victims of road accidents was 119 vs 141 in 2016 or a 15.6% reduction. The number of injured road users is 1658 vs 1951 for 2016 or a 15% reduction.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u140	Thank you, Minister. I'll allow myself to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u141	I'm ready to answer any questions you ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u142	Thank you. Let's start with the questions. First question from GERB's parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u143	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen! My question is to the Minister of Interior and is related to the personnel policy of the Ministry of Interior in the management of the period of the caretaker government. But before I specified things, I heard the short report of the Minister of Interior, I did not hear any data about a very disturbing fact concerning telephone fraud, which is really a scourge for Bulgarian citizens, and I hope that you will have the opportunity to give information later. The main task of the Ministry of Interior is to implement policies to protect the rights and freedoms of citizens and protect the National Security and, above all, to counter crime. Given the tensions surrounding migration processes, the existence of domestic crime, the upcoming Presidency at the beginning of 2018 and the related events and events, as well as the declared wish of the political forces to appoint more police officers and increase the police presence in the country, please provide us with information on the policy of staff during the management of the caretaker government, as well as information on the announced contests for police officers, their distribution on the structures of the Ministry of Interior and at what stage the relevant competition procedures are currently taking place. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Because when there are procedures prepared, if they do not start immediately, the entire recruitment process of the employees concerned is delayed extremely much over time. The next thing we want to get an answer is the number of police officers in executive and junior positions... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u144	Mr. Nunev, get it over with!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u145	...whose relationships have been terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u146	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Mr. Uzunov, Minister of the Interior, for an answer. Here you are, dear Mr. Uzunov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u147	Madam President, Mr. Nunev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For the period from 27 January 2017 until now, the personnel government's personnel policy has been implemented according to the budgetary framework defined by the State Budget Act for 2017 and the capacity of the training institutions in the Ministry of Interior to obtain initial police training. A total of 47 contests for the appointment of 542 posts for civil servants with police powers have been announced, including 34 contests for the appointment of 485 junior executive posts and 13 competitions for the appointment of 57 executive posts of the announced contests are at the adoption stage of documents, 25 of the competitions are due to be examined the physical fitness of the candidates and 10 of the competitions are due or a psychological study is under way. One of the competitions at the Directorate-General of the National Police (National Police) for 282 junior executive posts has been completed and will be appointed by the winners. The distribution on the main structures of the Ministry of Interior, announced for the appointment of police posts, is as follows: for the Directorate-General of the National Police I've broken them down by district directorate, and I'll give them to you, Mr. Nunev, to make it easier. During that period, a competition with the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior has been completed - Yambol, announced in September 2016, and 30 interns have been appointed to junior executive posts. A competition for the SDVR, announced in January 2017, continues to be held for the appointment of 100 junior executive posts. The winners of the contest will be appointed interns and sent for initial police training. For the period from 27 January to 26 April 2017, the service relations with the Ministry of Interior of 155 employees under art. 142, para. 1, t. 1 of the Ministry of Interior Act. By species, they are as follows: one senior executive officer, 20 senior executives, they are heads of groups or higher positions, executive position of 41 in number, and the junior executive position is 93 or, as I have already said, 155 in total. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u148	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor from GERB's parliamentary group for questions to Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Yanev. Here you go, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u149	Dear Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is related to the Order of the Minister of Defence of 25 April 2017 to withdraw the soldiers from the 68th Brigade of Special Forces from the border. To one part of the question, Mr. Minister answered what they meant, but I would like to say that from talks with the Director of the Border Police Directorate and with colleagues, the opinion of the Border Police is that there is a need at the border, and very serious, of the presence of our special forces. These people have been withdrawn, given a period of two days. The order is on the 25th, and by the 27th the servicemen have already been withdrawn, about 50 people from the brigade. For us, first, there is a confusion that the position of the Border Police is against. That is, if these soldiers withdraw, they must be replaced by other trained servicemen for this job. They were also sent, posted only two days earlier, and then withdrawn in an emergency. My question is, why is this thing done? What exactly are the motives? What are the reasons for their withdrawal? Because there are no people in their place, but to prepare from infantry units, mechanized troops to perform these tasks is neither easy nor able to do so. These are specific tasks for the Special Forces. Their involvement there has sharply changed the entire organization of border guards. They're working with Border Patrol. Commissioner Kyuchukov himself told me that they work in an incredible way. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My question is: why, what motives did the Special Forces have to withdraw exactly?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. The deputy prime minister has the floor, Mr. Janev. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Manushev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, I have partly already answered that question. The idea is that in the end the measures we have taken will not allow the creation of a vacuum, because both the specific tasks that the Special Forces carry out so from the perspective of the overall number of personnel from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria at the border are sufficient and according to the estimates that we have with the Border Police, this is a fact. At the same time, the task assigned to the Special Forces is indeed specific. Let me open the clamp here and say that to the Special Forces, the name is not a coincidence "special" because these are forces that have opportunities, rudely put, with tactical techniques to carry out tasks of strategic importance. In this case, the security of the state border is currently as it is, indeed, a task of strategic importance, but there are dynamics and sometimes it is necessary for this strategic reserve, so to speak, to be available for other tasks as well. The activities and tasks we have taken into account the preparation we are making, namely their specific opportunity to perform certain tasks, are currently compensated by other units of the Land Forces, who have sufficient ability to do them. This is coordinated, as I have already stressed. In the future, these Special Forces of the 68th Brigade will be replaced by the Special Navy. This decision was made by the Defense Council in March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We are moving on to the issues of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here's a first question, Mrs. Yoncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u153	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the House! My question is about the fence of the Bulgarian-Turkish border, known as the engineering obstruction facility. The question is Mr. Uzunov. Does the Ministry of Interior bear and what responsibility for the quality of the fence at the Bulgarian-Turkish border? I'm asking this question because it matters to our national security. Regarding the price of the fence, why for the first 30 km built in 2014, the price of the fence is 300 thousand. lv. per linear kilometer [[GERB's line]] , and inside is included and a accompanying support path?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u154	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u155	Today, the price is several times higher.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u156	It's got nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u157	What imposed this drastic increase and is it related to the quality of the fence? What forced a change in the original project from a two-row fence to become a single-rowed fence? I'm talking about a 20-mile fence from the Tundzha River to the Maritsa River. This is from control post 280 to control post 320. I just want to point out that this is about the land, not the river section. Here, from these pictures, you can see [[shows two color photos]] that the two-row fence actually becomes uniform in an identical terrain. [[GERB's line.]] Mr. Minister, who and why trades with Bulgarian national security? If that's the case. Finally, there is an integrated border surveillance system. Some of the cameras I have in my possession is that they don't work. What's the reason? How does this affect the work of Border Patrol in obstructing the refugee flow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u158	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yoncheva. Mr. Uzunov, Minister of the Interior, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u159	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Yoncheva, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Allow me first, since I missed, to answer Mr. Nunev's question about phone fraud. From the analysis we have done, we have found that for 2016 on wire. 112 total 14 thousand were submitted. 28 signals related to phone fraud. The registration of such crimes in the Ministry of Interior registers is 726 or the difference of the raw phone fraud is more than 13,000. That is why we have also made a structural change in the Directorate General of the National Police Department, in the Department of the Criminal Police, we have created a specialized unit to counter this kind of crime. In addition, in the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior in Ruse, in Veliko Tarnovo and in Pleven groups were formed, in the sectors of the "Criminal Police" to secure the contingent living in these district centers, as well as to assist the other structural units of the Ministry of Interior in the fight against telephone fraud. Dear Mrs. Yoncheva, I would like to mention a few figures I have on the price of the border engineering obstruction facility, namely that it is planned to take place in two stages. The first stage of the project from 24 October 2013 to 28 November 2013, the front roads of 74 km, and the rocked roads of 33 km. The second stage is from 20 January 2014 to 2 September 2014. Construction of an engineering facility preventing type along the Bulgarian-Turkish border with a total length of 29 thousand. 331 m, from the village of Lesovo to the village of Kranovo. Every day, up to 140 servicemen and up to 70 units of special equipment participated in the operation. The total value of the facility: the supply of materials 7 million. 711 thousand. 843,24 BGN, delivered materials 542,000. 20,40 BGN, and delivery of machines, facilities and auxiliary materials in the amount of 173 thousand. 713.36 leva. These are the figures for the facility until 2013, which were provided to me by the Minister of Defence. A little later, in the report I have prepared, I will also mention the current results. In connection with Report No 4 of 8 March 2017 of the Minister of Interior in accordance with Order R-68 of 27 March of the Prime Minister's Commission of the Chief Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers carried out a verification of the administrative procedures regarding the design and construction of a temporary impeding facility at the Bulgarian-Turkish border. A report was prepared and reflected in it the following findings: the assignment was approved by the Minister of Interior in implementation of Decision No 17 of the Council of Ministers of 14 January 2015 on urgent measures concerning migration pressure at the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria. The total length of the facility is dedicated for design and is about 131 km, of which 33 km The job is designed to design two types of engineering facility of obstruction type "A" type and type "B" type. In fact, it is the type "A" is two-rowed and type "B" is one-line. It is specified that the facility type "A" is built along the entire length of the track, with the exception of the following areas: in the district of Burgas from the border pyramid 109 to the border pyramid 110 "about 500 meters," from the border pyramid 7 to the border pyramid 13 "about 3 km," and the area along the river Deliyska and Veleka It is given the possibility that when designing other areas of the area where a type A facility can not be built, the designer can agree with the contracting entity and provide the Ministry of Interior with a solution for the construction of a type B facility in these territories. According to a decision reached at a working meeting held with the Deputy Minister of Interior with the participation of the district governors of the three districts and representatives of the Directorate-General of Border Police and by letter No 328200-18149 of 20 November 2015 of the Director of the Directorate-General of Border Police, the regional governors of the districts of Yambol, Haskovo and Burgas are required, after completion of the priority sections designated as priority areas for which contracts have been concluded for the continuation of construction activities in 2016, to be carried out a transition from a type A facility to a type B facility in which to be changed and part of the technical parameters of the tasks of the Ministry of Interior of the Ministry of Interior of a type B It should be noted that the given indication does not correspond with the internal affairs minister's established assignment for the design of the facility under which the regional managers have already concluded a contract for the construction of the facility and its service path. In 2016, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. With two changes and an addition to the design assignment, the type of facility in the river sections and the improvement of the deterrent effect of the facility is arranged. The construction of a temporary obstruction facility at the Bulgarian-Turkish border on the territory of Burgas district is as follows: under Contract No D 2120 of 11 August 2015 the type of engineering obstruction facility is not marked in the minutes of the admission committee.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... According to the approved projects of the documents submitted and the information available therein, the verifier team could not establish the type of the facility. Under Contract No 2121 of 18 August 2015, the inspection team was also unable to identify the type of the engineering facility. Under Contract No 2122, the Commission could not establish what type of engineering obstruction was built. The report will not stop at more figures, is in the Council of Ministers and can be provided to you. Regarding the integrated control and surveillance system at the border from the crossing point, Captain Andreevo to the crossing point. Lesovo.. it was built between 8 September 2010 and 30 June 2012 and was in guarantee and maintenance until 31 July 2014. After the expiry of the period of guarantee support and at the present time due to the lack of a contract for post-war maintenance, a significant part of the technical means of the system, namely panoramic devices, sensors, units, sensor units and others, cannot be used in service and cannot be used in border security, and there the security itself is compensated by living force. With regard to the Bulgarian-Turkish border from the border crossings of Lesovo to the mouth of the Rezovo River, a second part of the integrated control and monitoring system of the Turkish border, it functions normally. With grants under a grant agreement under the Fund of Homeland Security and emergency measures....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The maritime border of the Schengen instrument was implemented Treaty No 22 of 11 January 2010 on the construction of an integrated system of the Schengen area and the estimated value of the contract was 2 million. Nine hundred and £700. The data I have read is only part of the report that I have prepared and will be provided to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u160	Thank you, dear Minister of the Interior. We move on to the second issue from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria and the Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, Dear Minister Uzunov! The dynamics of the security environment over the past few years and months have put on a very serious test the national security systems, including that of the Republic of Bulgaria. One of the main factors that generate risks and threats to the national security of the country is no doubt the migrant pressure, including the Bulgarian-Turkish border. The obstruction facility referred to here is an important infrastructure part of the national security system. Since I am provoked by what I have heard as an answer and by the disturbing report of the Minister of Defence on the operational capabilities of the Bulgarian army and its state to protect or not national security and territory, I would like to receive an answer in relation to the facility of the following questions on the parameters and condition of the facility, which is undoubtedly the pride of the Bulgarian politicians, especially that part which is quoted in the territory of Burgas region. What is the degree of completion of the facility in percent of the total length? What is the presence of unbuilt sections, i.e. openings that allow its smooth passage? If there are, how many and how many sizes are there? What is the security of the facility by technological and technical means, of course, maintenance and prevention? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u162	Thank you. Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Velkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, the issue of the impeding engineering facility at the border for several years has been the focus of several governments and its construction continues at the moment. In practice, the district governors of Haskovo, Yambol and Burgas have now taken the necessary steps to implement PMS No 55 of 12 March 2015 for the terms and conditions under which the overall facility must be built. According to the jobs established by the Ministry of Interior, the total length of the temporary obstruction facility and the road adjacent to it is 201 km, of which 132 land and 62 riverbeds. As of March 2017, a total of 133 km of the temporary obstruction facility was built, of which 50,468 km are of type A. As regards the financing of everything done so far, the district administrations of the districts of Haskovo, Yambol and Burgas have been paid a total amount of 174 million. 676 thousand. lv. with VAT, including letters of credit issued, of which 925 thousand. 500 leva. For design, 173 million. 196 thousand. lv. For construction, 379 thousand. 200 leva. for investor control and 174 thousand. £800. for copyright supervision. Payments for the completed construction contracts of the facilities have been made according to the data and protocols for the work carried out and the input materials. With regard to the effectiveness of the facility, since it is clear that it still does not cover the entire border, I can present to you the dynamics of the number of persons detained at the entrance of the Bulgarian-Turkish border for the period from 1 January to 20 April 2017. The total number is 294 persons, which represents almost 80% reduction compared to the same period last year when they were 1459. At the same time, for the corresponding periods from 1 January to 20 April this year, the number of detained persons at the exit of the Bulgarian Serb border is 1420, which represents a reduction of about 30% compared to the same period for the previous year. Thus, with this statistic the following conclusions can be drawn briefly: the efficiency of the engineering facility and the accompanying measures in the complex security operation at our southern border, the Bulgarian-Turkish border, do not provide a 100% guarantee. Accordingly, an accurate analysis of the character, of the profile of the captured people at the entrance of the border and the captured at the exit at the Bulgarian-Serbian border should be done. It turns out that not necessarily the figures correspond, but not necessarily all people caught at the exit could potentially have crossed the border illegally. There are those who are long-term residents in the country and, in fact, a precise and firm conclusion that our border is open and there is great migratory pressure cannot be made. Rather, the opposite: although not completed, the engineering facility creates certain prerequisites for the entire border security mission and tasks to be carried out within the framework of its mandate and to be sufficiently effective at a certain percentage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense. We are moving on to the next questions from the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs. Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u165	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! Our first question is to Mr. Stefan Yanev, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u166	You have two questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u167	The procedure is one after the other, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u168	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u169	You, Minister, have given explanations on the issue of withdrawing the servicemen from our special forces from the border, arguing with two rounds of arguments. The first one was of an organizational nature that the failure of the brigade "Special forces" and the intensive trainings involve a hundred percent of the staff. This can be delightful because our soldiers and Special Forces have to train constantly, otherwise they have nothing to do. I'm not gonna quote a soldier's proverb from one day. Secondly, you argued that the Special Forces are forces with tactical skills and decide strategic objectives. And that's true. Thirdly, you stated that the withdrawal of these forces from the border would be compensated by other forces: by the infantry to use the operative term, or maybe by the marines, that is, something in the future. Our question to you is: which strategic task of higher discharge, apart from the strategic task of guarding our national border, requires the withdrawal of special forces? What other strategic task will they decide from a higher degree? Secondly, don't you think that the withdrawal of our special forces creates a vacuum in the border guard army's commitments and a breach in the border guard system? Finally, just one sentence: we declare the high rating of the servicemen of the "Special Forces" in the security of our border, which is the opinion of the "United Patriarchs." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u170	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. For an answer there is the word Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense Mr. Yanev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, there is such a strategic task that is higher, but I suppose at an open session here I cannot name it, so I will limit myself to this comment. I've made myself clear with a few clues. I would no longer like to speak in open court on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Second question from the United Patriarchs. Come in, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u173	Thank you, Madam President. My question could be to either of the two ministers.. both of the interior and of the defence. It is about the fact that the enclosure along the border does not exactly follow the border, but there are times, there are places where we go inside. And from the municipality of Kapitan Andreevo and Topolovgrad several times I have been given a signal with complaints of residents, Bulgarian citizens that their properties remain on the other side of the enclosures. Particularly drastic is a case where the enclosure at the Maritsa River itself makes so that the properties, the fields of the Bulgarian citizens stay on the other side. When there was a rule, the people's enclosure was promised, the mayors intervened for the opening of secure portals, which will be locked so that Bulgarian citizens can go to their properties. In practice, these are lands that remain on the other side and could be conquered, used or cared for by the neighbouring foreign country. Do you know this problem? Are there any complaints with you and what is being done to solve this difficult problem where Bulgaria seems to abandon and entrust its territories and lands to a neighbouring country?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u174	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Here you are, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Shopov, ladies and gentlemen of the House, this problem is known to us. This problem is put to the attention of many people along the chain, starting from the Council of Ministers and reaching out to the district governors, who are invited to seek a solution to the issue of building exactly this type of portals, so that what is promised to the people is fulfilled. It is envisaged in some places, I cannot at the moment tell you exactly whether at all designated places, because it is not a single case, not only in Haskovo region, i.e. the municipality of Kapitan Andreevo, and elsewhere there are such participants who restrict access not only to fields but also to a forest fund that is on the other side of the facility, but in practice on Bulgarian territory. Perhaps the district managers can respond to specific measures at what stage they are, but they are thought about and these facilities will be made with the relevant portals and lockdown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u176	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense. We are moving on to questions from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. No questions asked. From the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Netsov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u177	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! My question is to the Secretary of Defense. Everyone in this room knows that the army is not fully staffed, both sergeants and officers and soldiers. How many numbers are short, if it is right to answer in this room, not to disclose state secrets, and what measures has the Ministry taken to resolve these personnel's personnel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u178	Thank you, dear Mr. Netsov. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Netsov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The problem with the assembly of the Armed Forces personnel is not from yesterday. The figure, which at the end of February was reported in the relevant annual defence status analysis by the Chief of Defence, is about 5,700 people. This figure seems serious and it is the result of limiting this part of the budget, which is able to finance the admission of new people. At the moment, the opportunities that allow the 2017 budget are to appoint new 640 people. Accordingly, the procedures have already started, the means for this appointment are set and we hope that these people will be appointed to the ranks of the Bulgarian Army by the end of the year, because indeed this shortage is serious. Unfortunately, that's not the only problem. It is clear that with the figure 600 we will not compensate for 5600, but the problem is sharper in terms of the fact that the dynamics of the military's recruitment relations are such that probably more people will leave the army by the end of the year than the figure 650 for natural reasons both reaching retirement age and for personal motivational reasons. Young people are leaving the army, as labour market dynamics do not correspond to the wages of servicemen at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u180	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Second question from the Political Party "Volja"? Moving on to the second round of questions. The word has the MPs from GERB's Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u181	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Ministers! I have to ask you a question, Mr. Minister of the Interior, a question related to a very important topic for Bulgaria. A long time ago we spoke in this room, on all media, Mr. Borisov did everything he could to ensure that the European Union provided 320 million. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And you, then, the ones you call from the left, have surrounded all the media to explain that this will not happen, but this has happened. The caretaker minister received 320 million in government and the first thing he did on the subject of this 320 million at the beginning of his ministry was to announce that we had a delay in public procurement on these funds. My question is this: having determined that we had a delay, having determined that urgent measures had to be taken and they had been taken, was created in the Ministry of Interior Directorate for Public Procurement, to which a political person was appointed director, how did things change, Mr. Minister? Did we do it? Is it better that we dealt with these public procurements more quickly when a person in the political cabinet decided most of them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u182	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. For an answer, the Interior Minister Mr. Uzunov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u183	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Manev, in response to the question you have asked about the progress in carrying out procedures in relation to European Union emergency funds under the Internal Security Fund and the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, I provide you with the following information. As of September 2016, the Ministry of Interior has been committed to programming and coordinating the implementation of five projects financed under the Emergency Assistance Facility in the area of Internal Affairs at a total value of EUR 178 million, of which EUR 160 million is European funding. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the 479 thousand. 650 euros. The funding was made available in accordance with the agreement reached at the informal meeting of the governments of the 27 Member States of the European Union. A total of three emergency assistance agreements have been concluded by the European Commission under the Internal Security Fund. The financing under the agreements amounts to a total of 118 million. 420 thousand. 257 euros. Activities are planned to modernise existing communication and information technologies related to external border control, vehicle delivery, border control and surveillance equipment, recruitment of additional police officers, improvement of conditions for detention of third-country nationals in the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, as well as expenditure on secondment of Ministry of Defence personnel to carry out border guards tasks. So far, 53 procurement procedures have been launched in the implementation of the emergency assistance agreements under the Fund of Internal Security for a total of 97 million. 947 thousand. 167 euros. Other 46 procurement procedures totaling 17 million Seven hundred and 17 euros are in preparation. As of 25 April 2017, 15 contracts for a total of 22 million were concluded as a result of the public procurement. 578 thousand. 940 euros without value added tax. The funds actually spent under the emergency aid agreements under the Fund of Homeland Security amounted to 1 million. 804 thousand. EUR 361, which represents 1.37% of the budget under the agreements. Under the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, two emergency assistance agreements have been concluded by the European Commission. The project financing by the European Union amounts to 30 million. 774 thousand. 762 euros. Until now, 13 procurement procedures have been launched in the implementation of the emergency assistance agreements under the Fund for Migration and Integration, amounting to a total of 8 million. Two hundred and 693 euros. The launch of 34 procedures for a total of 12 million is imminent. 139,000. 625 euros. The actual expenditure under the emergency aid agreement amounts to 2 million. 799 thousand. 821 euros. These are the numbers. There have been no personnel changes in the Directorate of Public Procurement in the Ministry of Interior and I have not appointed an employee there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u184	Thank you, dear Minister of the Interior. Second question from the Parliamentary Group of GERB Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u185	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! My question is to Minister Yanev and is related to the chamber policy that the minister has been conducting for the past three months. It became clear from the Minister of the Interior how many people from the police had fired in his term of office, but I would be curious if I could find out exactly how many people he had fired and appointed Minister Yanev, as the scandalous appointments and dismissals at the Ministry accompanied his entire term. I will not dwell on the already known shifts of directorates of directorates, of chief experts, of major companies, of all commercial companies actually in the Ministry of Defence, of the Inspectorate, of the Institute of Defence and so on. The problem is that even after our declaration of March 31st of this year, after the past elections, the total personnel footage continued, even it continues to this day. I am very curious: the appointments, which are also in violation of the Law on the Civil Service, and most of all, for example, what would the Director of the Directorate of Housing Policy understand in the Ministry of Defence, who has since yesterday been appointed Head of the Department of Defence. Residential policy and equipment, it doesn't make any sense to me. Not to mention, Minister, with your orders from last Friday you have appointed your advisors to civil contracts for BGN 2,700. by 31 October 2017, i.e. for the next six months, with benefits and notice in the contracts themselves. In this way you oblige the next Minister of Defense to work with your advisors. 2,700 leva. salary for a lawyer who advises the Legal Directorate of the Ministry of Defence is a good salary. These aren't even the most outrageous. The most scandalous appointment so far was the holding of the permanent secretary of defence contest. On March 21st, the Permanent Secretary Totev ended his term of office and you ten days later on April 1st [[the President signals that time has run out]] ,... I'm done, Madam President. ...you appointed Rumen Vassilev as his permanent secretary of defense. The appointment of a temporary acting member was the right option, and you had actually done so by your order, by which of the 21st you appointed Ms. Tatiana Alexandrova as a temporary acting member for six months. Here our question is: how many people have you changed, and especially what was this urgency, that in 10 days a permanent secretary of defense should be appointed, given that there is a temporary performer? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Have you changed the job description so that Mr. Vassilev's education meets the requirements? And based on what criteria did you choose it, given that two other directors were candidates, too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u186	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. Here you are, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Gazhev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for your interest in the personnel policy conducted at the Ministry of Defence during the office. However, interestingly, Mr. Gazhev's suggestion came to mind, if I have not understood, I must be excused that it is a good party government to conduct chamber policy. I apologize, we're talking about depoliticized departments and the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Interior are depoliticized. So the less we talk about party politics, we'll probably be more relaxed and looking for the truth in a better way. With regard to the so-called scandalous appointments, I can say that the contracts are in no way binding and can be terminated tomorrow without any consequences, without any benefits. So let's not get into the same subject matter, which is a little painful for the department, because what I found when I went there, and we had to fire representatives from the former political cabinet, almost everyone had contracts, with four or six wages. Let's not go in that plane. What I found and it seemed wrong and unfair to me, I didn't apply it in signing these new contracts. With regard to the Permanent Secretary of Defence, the issue is also interesting, as this position was introduced in 2009, as a substitute for the then Secretary General, which is also available in the other ministries under the Administration Act. With regard to the Permanent Secretary, a little more responsibility has been put in place and the idea is enshrined in the Defence and Armed Forces Act that this will be precisely that depoliticized figure that will not be expendable when changing political offices. The Mr. Totev in question, who expired his term in March this year, was also appointed by a caretaker government. If you do not know this is for your information. Over the years, he has done his duty well, so there has been no drama in this regard. Of course, the question is asked why and how selection was made and why it was in a hurry. The selection is made under all the rules required by the Law, and what has been done is: 38 people from the administration, both civilian and military, have been identified as potential compliant with the terms of the Law. I can quote the article: "79," para. 2 "From the Defence and Armed Forces Act, and with them a talk has been made. Of these 38, 35 declaratively refused in writing that they did not want to participate in the selection and eventually there were three people left. Of these three people, the one you quoted was Rumen Vassilev. He met the conditions and didn't have other problems in personnel development and potential, because with the other two candidates things were a little different. One of them is a relatively new director of a directorate that has yet to develop potential and is more needed there than development as a permanent secretary. The other potential candidate, about a week before this selection, had submitted an application for exit, which was strictly politically motivated, and I turned him down. For this reason, rudely speaking, he eliminated himself from participating in the competition, although he had stated it in writing. To what extent these 38 people met the terms of the Law and the extent to which the search for such a profile could be detailed, the fact that, including the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Galab Donev was given such a question and he stated in writing that he did not wish to participate, as he was entitled by Law as a former employee. In this regard, the search for some scandal in these appointments does not seem to be responding to reality. With regard to the general picture of dismissals and appointments at the Ministry of Defence, I can also say responsibly that no civil servant has been fired in the Ministry of Defence administration. All appointments made during the term of office of the caretaker government shall be made on the basis of competitions, including the Head of the Inspectorate and directorates of directorates. If you're asking me back in history how many and when directors have been appointed by competitions, I'm having a little trouble answering you right now, but the answer is between never or long ago. I still don't have an exact answer. So all the appointments that have been made have been made with contests. In companies, in commercial companies, I had the opportunity to emphasise repeatedly the dismissals of their managements were in response to their weak financial results. As a result of the changes in some companies, their stabilisation has already begun. In the largest company, with the most sub-contracting enterprises that have "TEREM" "Military and repair plants," new contracts have already been concluded, as the company was found in very poor condition. He's about to survive. Otherwise, these companies - five trade companies of the Ministry of Defence - were bankrupted in fact. We have a recovery plan right now. To what extent and to what extent we will be able to achieve the positive results we have bet, the future will respond, but I think we are on the right track. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u188	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The word for a question is from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u189	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence Stefan Yanev, who is responsible and overseeing the entire sector Deputy Prime Minister. The subject matter of the hearing includes personnel policy and, as usual, under this wording, we ask ourselves: who is chief, where was he placed, who was fired, who was appointed and who was moved? This is undoubtedly important, but the security of Bulgarian citizens is not guaranteed by the chiefs. They are guarded by uniformed officers from the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior, and their situation, as we have heard today, is very difficult. It is normal that the many announced contests fail to provide the necessary set of new employees, on the contrary people are leaving, and more and more often. With an average salary, which, if we even include rations for food, like overtime, remains lower than the national average, both by the way and because of the often unfair attitude towards those employees who, although they wear torn shoes, are considered privileged by some environments, then it is clear that the profession not only does not attract but also causes many of the people to leave it. That is why my specific question, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is this: after the many reforms and legal changes that have been taking place over the years, do we have in our country a comprehensive and long-term vision to solve the personnel problems of the ministries and the material problems of their employees, or the new ministers, whoever they are, will have to resolve the problems in the context of the situation and circumstances again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u190	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence Mr. Yanev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u191	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Zarkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, the question you are asking is very serious, and I would say that it is worrying. It was no accident that the caretaker government, in its obligation to provide the defence report, decided that the Armed Forces were partially capable of fulfilling their constitutional obligations and the main focus, the main reason for this is precisely the personnel problems, which I personally highlight in the first place as a top priority. In this regard, it was done little during the office. The background of the current situation is the fact that it is from the time of the financial and political crisis in 2008 in practice the budget of the Ministry of Defence is frozen at some levels that provide the minimum, without special opportunities for full, 100%, as would have been desired by the military commanders, preparation, with little funds for re-arming or the so-called costs and with a generally one volume of money for salary, which provide the then state of employment payment with a one-time increase in the share of 30 BGN. in 2012, and the second such increase by 30 BGN. It was done during the caretaker government. Of course, this is far from enough and does not change the picture, because the dynamics of the capabilities of the Armed Forces to hire new people is such that rather those going out naturally are larger than those we are able to employ. Why do I say, "Those we are able to employ?" Because this opportunity to hold new competitions is also limited by budget opportunities. And that's how it has been over the years. We currently have a shortage of over 5,700 people, but we cannot hire all five thousand if there are candidates, of course, because there is no budget for this. The budget is intended for a limited number. The second problem, the second plane, is the motivation and qualities of the candidates. Perhaps things are linked directly because with low pay, the low motivation of the servicemen's work suggests that the qualities of candidates who apply for available numbers and available competitions do not correspond to what we would like. Between 30 and 40 per cent of applicants are unfit for physical or other indicators, basic indicators that we have as a basis to hire even the most ordinary jobs that do not require any special education or qualification. The problem is serious and complex. What have we done so far? The caretaker government has launched the preparation of a national plan, which we call conditionally a national plan to reach more than 2% of gross domestic product as defence expenditure. This is a national plan that is consistent with the political decisions taken in 2014 at the Wales Summit established in 2016 at the Warsaw Summit, and currently not only Bulgaria, but all NATO countries are working on a similar one, let us say, a road map on which they are looking for the realization of this political commitment made at this level at the summit, which is the highest forum of the member states of the Alliance. This national plan we have prepared to some extent a project that we will provide to our successors, and therefore the next government will have the part to complete it in the form and manner it considers necessary and possible for the national budget to finance and support it. I suppose it will be in this plan that parameters will be set for increasing the incomes of the servicemen, of the uniformed people in the security sector, both the Ministry of Interior and the security services and all the others we rely on in our daily lives to ensure our peace and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u192	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Second issue from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u193	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! In the tone of the issue of chamber policy in the two ministries we heard the presentation of Deputy Prime Minister Yanev regarding the Ministry of Defence. Rather, my question will be further developed by my colleague Zarkov and we will talk about the Ministry of Interior. I have a few questions for the Home Secretary. Just to remind you that at the end of the activity of the Forty-third National Assembly changes were adopted in the Act on the Ministry of Interior, which were known as the so-called "Bachvarova Reform" which were adopted by the employees of the Ministry of Interior. Perhaps unambiguously because what was expressed as an attitude and at all the protests that were on the agenda showed how this Law was treated. Only one clamp to open: currently the texts of this Law are being attacked in the Constitutional Court and it will be interesting to understand what the attitude of the Ministry of Interior is in this direction. Minister, would you please answer me how you found the Ministry after this reform? Is there any tension still in the structures? Is there any means to raise the salaries of the police officers, the administration, the firefighters, which is laid down in the Law? What is the ratio, very interesting, in this reform between the real police activity and the administration, about the material and material contentment of the employees of the Ministry of Interior? We know and have repeatedly asked the question from this tribune: how is the border guarded, what shoes do they wear, what clothes? I've been talking to the unions. We know that for years they have not received such a substance content. And in practice, answer us: how did you find the Ministry and how do you leave it behind, as a job in this environment and as a minister of the service? What's going on out there anyway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u194	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The Minister of Interior Mr. Uzunov has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u195	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The reform, which has been in force since 1 February 2017, has been unsuccessful. She put a lot of tension into the system of the Ministry of Interior and indeed some of the employees, a very large part, drew up a collective claim with which they addressed the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Ombudsman shall, for his part, refer to the Constitutional Court. A constitutional case has been set up. The appeal has been lodged. The opinion and opinion of the Ministry of Interior in relation to the same case as the opinion that I have with the team is entirely solidarity with the opinion of all employees in the Ministry of Interior that the current reform is not successful. It creates social inequality and tension in the system of the Ministry of Interior. I have had the opportunity, both in the media and in the public domain, to comment on what tensions it brings, namely, we come to paradoxes that people working in the employment relationship receive higher remuneration from a regular police officer. This very strongly disincentives the employees who are in the field, those who perform operational and search activities, security activities, security at the Bulgarian state border. This tension is reflected in the quality of their work. The paradoxes that put this reform are that a person who works in the administration or is serving staff, say, works in a buffet or is a mechanic, takes about 300 levs. a higher remuneration than the police officer who is on the street and is day and night performing his duties. In connection with what I found, it was necessary on 1 February, three or four days after my inauguration, I was forced and administratively bound, to sign 4,000 orders, with which administration officials had to be reassigned from the posts they occupy under the Ministry of Interior Act in positions which are under the Law of the Civil Service Officer, and this has indeed created great tension. We have tried with compensatory measures to ease the state of police officers, and with various incentives, what the Interior Minister has as opportunities in the absence of parliament is from internal resources, with the necessary reorganizations to compensate for some of the employees. They're still in the same position. We have and continue to have contacts with the trade unions and the general opinion of everyone is that, as I have already noted, the reform is unsuccessful. We have attracted experts in the field of labour law, in the face of Prof. Mirchkov, who will prepare an opinion on the reform that has been carried out, does not differ in quality from the opinion of all employees. We have prepared for this National Assembly an amendment to this regulation and we are interested in following the ruling of the Constitutional Court on the same case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u196	Thank you, dear Minister of the Interior. We are moving on to the issues of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs. No questions asked. From the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? No questions asked. From the Parliamentary Group of Wills? You don't. With this, we have exhausted the procedure for asking questions. We are now moving towards the relation of each parliamentary group to the respective ministers. From the Parliamentary Group of GERB. Welcome, Mr. Gazhev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u197	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! I consider that it is not appropriate at this time to withdraw the military from the border, especially until the situation is clarified. The weather's getting warmer and we don't know what's gonna happen. My opinion is that there is a need for the military to remain at the border. First, it must be clarified whether there will be a complicated situation or not, only then can such a decision be made. Colleagues, those are not my words. These are the words of the Director of the Border Police Directorate General in his interview yesterday, I just wanted to quote it. Regarding border guards, here I am in a hurry to refute a false statement that said that almost the fence during Oresharski's time was worth much cheaper than the fence that was built afterwards. It should be borne in mind that the money that was allocated back then within about 8 million, as I recall, was solely for wire and concrete only. All other costs of construction of road, by technique, by consumables, by GM, by salary, by mission were at the expense of the Ministry of Defence and they did not enter the price of the fence. If these costs go in, then the price jumps very dramatically. The good from the point of view of the caretaker government, it actually turns out that the facility is doing its job and the Border Police, and the troops at the border are doing their job. As noted by the ministers' report, nearly 80% is the reduction of migrants at entry, unlike last year, and 30% is a reduction at the expense of the exit to the Serbian border, so obviously work is done. Only one thing, if you can clarify, because according to the Interior Minister, it remains up to 30 km to be built, according to the Minister of Defence and Deputy Prime Minister there are about 80 left. If you can figure out what the right answer is. Unfortunately, regarding the video rockers that have taken place in the last three months, I was impressed by a figure -- 155 people who have been fired under the Ministry of Interior Act, that is, 155 people who are policemen, not administration. By dividing them into three months from the government's term of office, that makes an average of two people and something a day that's been fired. I don't know if that's the exact rate of release of police officers, especially when there's a non-completion in the Ministry of Interior. As for the opinion of a permanent secretary, I would use the right to give a kind of reply. As I understand it, from the three candidates who were, one director did not like you, the other was the director for only two years, and by the way he is also a colonel from the reserve, it should be known that he is a longtime servant of the service, and the third one who was appointed to replace the former head of the cabinet, has actually proved to be the most appropriate one in your opinion. Similar is the situation in December, when there was a choice of chief of defense. Then the government of Borisov decided not to rush with the procedure, but to wait for the new president to enter into force, the newly elected government, as the Borisov 2 government was already resigned, and the new president with the new government to decide who will be chief of defence. President Radev chose his boss and we accepted him. If you had followed such a logic, it would also have been admired by us, especially when the action takes place after the elections themselves, when the results are clear and within a month somewhere the caretaker government will cease its activities and there will be a regular elected government. The criteria under the Defence and Armed Forces Act limit only to executive positions, so I am curious to find out who these 38 people are afterwards. In general, what makes the impression is that the main part of the time ministers spent in their offices was in personnel shifts, not in solving the real problems they have in both sectors. As has been mentioned repeatedly by this tribune, the major problems are in providing equipment, in providing good conditions for both servicemen and policemen, and unfortunately, so far by May we have not seen anything change in good direction. As I understand it, the absorption of the notorious 320 million. lv. At the moment, it's about 3%. I hope this will be caught up with the next government already, as we have until the end of the year to be used up, otherwise we have to bring them back and the country loses again. Unfortunately, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I do not have time to ask you, and I hope that you will subsequently clarify: what is the main reason your Deputy Minister, whom you have posted as Deputy Prime Minister......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I would very much like to know afterwards what exactly is the reason, given that he is leaving the Deputy Minister and actually landing unemployed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u198	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. For attitude by the Parliamentary Group of BSP for
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u199	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! National security in the first place is the protection of national sovereignty, the most important part of which is the protection of territorial integrity, with the protection of state borders. Today, security of our borders is part of the common concept of global security in the region and Europe, and this is our duty and responsibility as an external border of the European Community. The change in the geopolitical situation, the trends in illegal migration and cross-border crime require a new approach to a new approach and upgrade of the integrated border management model in response to the challenges. What is the state of the engineering obstruction at the Bulgarian-Turkish border? It has become clear to all.. it has not been built. Thirty kilometers from the land border there is no such facility. What happens to the integrated border surveillance system at the Bulgarian-Turkish border, which was introduced five years ago against the amount of 12 million. Euros, with the praises of the then Minister of Interior Tsvetan Tsvetanov that he is extremely effective? It's not working! The expansion procedure for 52.5 million is at what stage? Blocked with a complaint, and the Commission for Protection of Competition has not even opened a procedure not complying with the deadline. Are financial interests an obstacle to the effective protection of our state border, or incompetent management of the process? The result seen from the Ministry of Interior report: for 2016 detained illegal migrants on entry into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria Until April 2017, illegal migrants were detained at the border crossing of.. 294; at the exit border of.. 1420 people. At the end of the cabinet mandate Borisov 2 we found that the Ministry of Interior has an incomplete 6500 free states, 5000 working pensioners, employees. A screaming imbalance in the remuneration of employees for the Ministry of Defence is 5700. The quality assurance of the system is of paramount importance for its effective operation. The work of each Minister of Interior and the Ministry of Defence is to ensure the functioning of the system. Overall, I sum up: there is no optimal border management by planning and improving the interaction at national, regional and local level between the authorities responsible for ensuring border security and controlling access to the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The slow and poor construction of security facilities creates an opportunity for an easy invasion of our territory. The incompetence and the poor equipment, especially the border guards, doesn't make sure the security at our border is secure. This is all about our national security. Dear ministers, I conclude with you: hiding incompetence is just as reprehensible as incompetence itself. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-05-03.u200	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. To be treated by the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs? I won't. To be treated by the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? I won't. About the attitude of the Parliamentary Group of the Party. I won't. Thank you. We should thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence Mr. Yanev and the Interior Minister Mr. Plamen Uzunov for their participation in the hearing today. We're done with the agenda items for today. Tomorrow's regular plenary session, 4 May 2017 at 9:00. I am adjourning today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
