ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, allow me to present to you a draft work programme for the National Assembly for the period from 12 to 14 July 2017 including, which was reviewed at the Conference of Presidents: 1. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the administration of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2017. 2. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and Members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, Presentation and Public Disclosure of Documents and Hearing of Candidates in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. The Commission on Religions and Human Rights is the importer on 11 July 2017. 3. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children. The People's Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 22 June 2017. 4. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Supreme High Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe and the Headquarters of the Supreme Union Commander-in-Chief on the Transformation of the Supplement to the Paris Protocol. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 26 June 2017. 5. Draft Law on the ratification of the Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Department of National Defence of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Government of Sweden, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the Centre for the Coordination of Movement of Europe. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2017. 6. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on the Development of the academic staff in the Republic of Bulgaria. People's representative Anelia Klisarova and a group of MPs on 8 June 2017. The second draft is with importers the national representative Stanislav Stanilov and a group of MPs on 21 June 2017. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior. The people's representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 27 June 2017. He was accepted at the first vote on 30 June 2017. We propose that this be the first item for Thursday, 13 July 2017. 8. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Cuba on the mutual grant of property use for the purposes of diplomatic representations of both Parties. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2017. 9. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the real estate of the diplomatic representations of the two countries. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2017. 10. Parliamentary control including: 10.1. Answers to questions and questions; 10.2. Debates on asking No 754-05-21 of 5 June 2017 by National Representative Cornelia Ninova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on a White Paper on the Development of Europe, proposed by Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission. The Conference of Presidents decided at 9:00 to start parliamentary control with questions and questions. The debate shall begin at 11.00. Once the debates have been concluded, continue with parliamentary scrutiny. Please vote on the agenda. Vote 198 MPs: 154 against 9, abstention 35. The agenda has been adopted. We have a proposal under art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly by the colleagues from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and Irena Anastasova and Stoyan Mirchev. But since it is on the agenda, colleagues said they are withdrawing it at the Conference of Presidents. [[National Representative Yordan Tsonev wants the floor for a negative vote on the agenda.]] Mr. Tsonev, do you want to make a proposal on the agenda? Negative vote? You may make proposals to include or move items on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u2	I accept, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak and to tell fellow Members why I voted against the agenda. It is impressive not for a first week that the agenda of the National Assembly for the whole week includes ten points, of which six ratifications, two BSP bills, one draft for adoption of procedural rules and only one draft related to the Ministry of Interior submitted by Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u3	There's another one.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u4	I don't know. That's how I count to ten. Maybe I was wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u5	There are three bills besides the one for the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u6	I said two BSP bills, there are more bills of other MPs. But there's none on the Council of Ministers. [[Speak and lines in GERB.]] Colleagues, make a reference to the National Assembly statistics and you will see that such a miracle has never been, in any edition of the National Assembly. Two months later, we only deal with ratifications and reports. And then you wonder why our ratings are like that and why the opposition is attacking you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u7	Mr. Tsonev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u8	I voted against it because I do not agree that the agenda of the National Assembly can only take place with ratifications. Because the Council of Ministers, which is the main legislative body with a major legislative initiative, and the practice of the National Assembly for 28 years, has shown it that bills that are submitted to the Council of Ministers represent and implement the programme of the Council of Ministers. But why do we wonder if there's no such program?! I therefore voted against, Mr President. And I am obliged to tell it to the House and to those who are watching us because it reflects on all the MPs. Not just on those of the majority and not just on those who call, ethnic peacemakers. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u9	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. In essence, you have no proposal to include points, displace or drop them. A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On this day 26 years ago, the Seventh Grand National Assembly adopted the new Bulgarian Constitution, which is the one in our history after the restoration of the Bulgarian statehood. Three hundred and thirteen MPs put their signatures under it. It is a special honor for me to face you today, because I am one of those 313 who 26 years ago, here at this bank, signed our new Constitution. The more than a quarter of a century has passed is a serious occasion to take account of and reflect on the basic rules written in it. First of all, it should be noted that with the adoption of the basic law the parliamentary system of government in Bulgaria was restored. The change of the public system has already been put on constitutional legal basis. Selected with the specialized tasks and functions of the Constitutional Assembly, i.e. to design and adopt a Constitution, the Seventh Grand National Assembly at the will of the represented political forces and the dominant understanding of the importance of the historical moment has become a real national representation. It presented not only the main ideas currents, but also the most significant public forces, as well as popular Bulgarian intellectuals with their civic position. In this sense, it can be said that the Seventh Great National Assembly was closest to the ideal of parliament as a forum of the nation, as a reflection of society's dominant spirit and aspirations. Unfortunately, this did not happen again in the next 26 years. The separation of the authorities is one of the most serious merits of the Constitution. The basic law has created a new institution - President of the Republic, designated as Head of State, which represents the unity of the nation. As Head of State, he is a non-party figure to ensure statehood, stabilize constitutional structure and balance political forces and institutions. Our new Constitution is the first of the existing constitutions, which introduces a new institution for Bulgaria as an independent body of parliament, the President and the Council of Ministers. The 26 years have passed, regardless of all the difficulties and distractions, proved the stabilizing role of our Constitution, and the solutions included in it for parliamentary and constitutional crises. Through the adopted European ideas and basic values, Bulgaria's integration into the European Union, which also happened due to the unconditional compatibility of our constitutional framework with that of the other members of the European Union. Dear MPs, it is good to remind once again today that the legal and political foundations of parliamentary democracy are built into the fourth Bulgarian Constitution. It guarantees the peaceful transition, fundamental freedoms and social rights of Bulgarian citizens. The Constitution ruled that Bulgaria should develop as a social and legal state. Unfortunately, these good and fair acts in our Basic Law today differ dramatically with the Bulgarian realities. The Constitution states that Bulgaria is a social state that creates conditions for the right to work, protects maternity and children, the woman-mother enjoys special protection, provides free medical care and education. Unfortunately, a small part of Bulgarians today can actually benefit from these fundamental rights. Poverty and poor living conditions are one of the main reasons for our country's ever-equipped population, not to mention accessibility to quality medical care and quality education. And here the problem is not the Bulgarian Constitution, it is not the fault of the long, tormenting and confused Bulgarian transition. The Constitution lays down a social model of public relations, which had to be built and developed from a corresponding legal basis guaranteeing the right to work and decent pay for every Bulgarian, here in his home country, the right to access quality medical services and quality education for his children. To date, this is our responsibility as MPs in the Bulgarian Parliament. 26 years ago the Bulgarian Constitution was made and adopted in a crucial period for Bulgaria in the conditions of acute political confrontation. Our predecessors had the will and wisdom to overcome their ideological differences and close party interests to fulfill their historic mission by the people. The BSP parliamentary group for Bulgaria says it is ready to work and ready to work with all parliamentary groups. We sincerely hope that this National Assembly will show the same will and common sense in the preparation and adoption of quality and adequate laws in the name of Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u11	Thank you, Mr. Boyadzhiev. Messages. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 5 July 2017 to 11 July 2017: On 5 July 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Youth Act was adopted. The people's representative Vesela Lecheva and a group of MPs are importing. The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 5 July 2017, the Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act with importers was adopted by the People's Representative Boryana Georgieva and a group of MPs. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It is also assigned to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. On 6 July 2017, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration entered into force. The people's representative Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs are importing. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management is leading, along with the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. On 6 July 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Law was adopted. The people's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs are importing. The Committee on Legal Affairs is leading, it is also assigned to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and to the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 6 July 2017, a bill for amendment and supplement of the Labour Code with importers was introduced: Diana Yordanova, Pavel Shopov, Svetlana Angelova, Dragomir Stoinev, Krum Zarkov, Dora Hristova, Albena Naydenova, Hasan Ademov, Alexander Sabanov and Elhan Kulkov. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also assigned to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 7 July 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons was adopted. The people's representative Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs are importing. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. On 7 July 2017 a Draft Law for amendment of the Law on Radio and Television with importers Vejdi Rashidov, Stanislav Stanilov, Stefan Danailov, Velislava Krasteva, Erjan Ebatin and Boryana Georgieva was adopted. There's a distribution coming up. On 7 July 2017, a draft decision was received to hold a debate on the question No 754-05-21 of 5 June 2017 by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on the White Paper of Europe, proposed by Jean Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission. The people's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs are importing. On 11 July there was a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Environmental Protection with importers Danail Kirilov, Stanislav Ivanov and Ivelina Vassileva. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria shall inform the National Assembly: First, in the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, by its order it has authorised: - The passage across the territorial sea, the stay in the inland waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the visit of the port of Varna to ships of the members of the naval forces of Greece, Great Britain, the Republic of Turkey and Romania for the period from 14 to 23 July 2017 including. The visit of the ships is of a non-military nature and is related to their participation in the National Teaching of the Naval Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with international participation - For the time from 7 July to 31 July 2017 the participation of the US Special Forces soldiers with the necessary equipment and state weapons in joint preparation SOF JCET 2 between a unit of the Forces of the Special Operations of the Bulgarian Army and the Special Forces of the United States of America in the Military Formation of Plovdiv, Specialized Tactical Polygon. - On the basis of the Act, participation as observers in the joint preparation SOF JCET 2 of the special forces of the Republic of Macedonia, without weapons and equipment. Second, in the performance of art. 65 and para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch and use of a single aircraft and crew of military personnel from the Air Force to carry out special flights to provide air transport to officials. In accordance with the provisions of the law, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notifications were received by the National Assembly with incoming numbers: 703-09-21, 703-09-22, 703-09-23 and 703-09-24 and provided to the Defence Committee. On 6 July 2017, with entry No 711-00-8 in the National Assembly, an extract was received from the full stenography Protocol No 16 of a meeting of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council held on 25 May 2017 in its section under the heading "Customs of the Supreme Judicial Council'. 51 et seq. 52, on which decisions were adopted to submit to the National Assembly a report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the prosecution, and on the investigative bodies in 2016 and a report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts in 2016. The full transcript of the entire meeting with discussions and the decisions adopted on all items on the agenda was published on the website of the Supreme Judicial Council on the Internet. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 10 July 2017 with entry No 731-00-1, the National Assembly received an Annual Report of the Bulgarian National Radio for 2016. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Culture and Media. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute on indexes of turnover in the section. Retail trade, excluding trade in cars and motorcycles in May 2017, indexes of industrial production in May 2017, indexes of construction production in May 2017. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Here you are, Mr. Mihov, for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our declaration is related to the problem of the monument of Buzludja peak. With regard to the increased public interest and the raised question, to whom belongs the construction facility of Buzludzha peak, we need to answer a few questions: by what means was the building created? The answer is by public funds, voluntary work by the Bulgarian people and the construction activities of the construction forces. What kind of monument was he? It functions between 1981 and 1989 as the House Monument of the Bulgarian Communist Party, a monument to a party that ruled under a regime declared criminal by law. What is the historical symbolism of Mount Buzludja? It is saturated with many historical events from different ages. All these issues are at the heart of the fact that this peak and this facility should not belong to one party. The Parliamentary Group of the Council of Ministers and the governor of the district should take appropriate action to preserve and maintain the state property concerning property and non-profit rights of the vitrified architectural facility. The site has private state property status and is in a state of self-destruct, posing a risk for possible visitors and broadcasting controversial messages to the citizens and guests of the country. The former Monument House has not been identified as a real cultural value under the Cultural Heritage Act, but has outstanding public significance. It is related to the historical memory of the national liberation movement of the Bulgarian people against Ottoman rule, to vivid literary works, to the Russian-Turkish Liberation War of 1877 ( 1878), to the decision to proclaim the Unification of the Principality of Bulgaria and Eastern Rumelia in 1885 and to the history of the Social Democratic Movement in the 19th century. In order to avoid inadequately the modern public situation, plotting the historical memory of the site of Buzludja peak, the parliamentary group of "United Patriots" is recommended to initiate administrative and management actions to repair, renovate and museum exposition the unique architecture and location facility. Visified processes should be carried out in the context of publicity and transparency and in the absence of parcelage of knowledge about the past and cultural memory of political or other principles. The historical past and cultural identity of Bulgaria are a social wealth and a means of building national unity and agreement. For this reason, the expected by society museum renovation of the former House-monument of the BCP should be carried out in the form of consensus and undisputed processes, phenomena and achievements, with which the Bulgarian history and Bulgarian culture have in volume and scale, worthy of modern and attractive exposure in the architectural spaces of the unique facility, rather than turning it into a party symbol with questionable historical credibility, subject to the political appropriateness in favor of a party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. We continue on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE CONSULTANT SERVICES AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOGNITION AND DEVELOPMENT. A report from the Legal Affairs Committee who will introduce us to him? Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u14	Thank you, Madam President. ? Report for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the administration of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 702-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2017. At its meeting held on 28 June 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Krasimir Bojanov from the administration of the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mr. Bojanov, who noted that at a meeting of the Council of Ministers held on 19 April 2017 the draft Agreement for the provision of consulting services was approved and on 2 May 2017 in the city. Sofia, it is signed under the terms of subsequent ratification by the National Assembly. He pointed out that the ratification of the Bill regulates the receipt of consultancy assistance from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to optimize the work of the central administration by introducing the principle of shared services in its activities, which provides for the provision of services by one unit or administration to other units or administrations in the field of financial accounting activities, human resources management and information technology. The Agreement on the provision of consulting assistance provides for the establishment of a Methodology framework for the implementation of shared services, a comprehensive communication programme, analysis of the state of administration, study of good practices in other countries, review and analysis of Bulgarian legislation, as well as provision of recommendations for regulatory amendments. It is envisaged to develop a roadmap and define priority administrative areas where this model is to be introduced by agreeing the establishment of two pilot administrative units for the provision of shared services. Mr. Bojanov pointed out that the consulting service will be performed for a period of 24 months and the remuneration for the provision of the service is BGN 2 390 000. and payment is envisaged at stages of approval of the results by the administration of the Council of Ministers. He noted that the consulting service will be financed under the Operational Programme "Good Governance" 2014 " 2020" of the European Commission. The ratification of the Advisory Services Agreement shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5, and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The discussion was attended by the MPs Bojankov, Popov, Ilieva and Kirilov. In response to the questions asked Mr. Bojanov announced that the expert composition of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has experience and knowledge in providing consulting services in other European countries and the authority built by his team is a prerequisite for the successful implementation of shared services in the administration. The agreed advisory work shall be for a period of 24 months and shall be carried out by 21 persons, including, in addition to the costs of the service itself and the costs of the stay and missions of those persons. He added that the benefits of consultancy activities will be monitored after analysis and assessment of the sectors and areas where the implementation of these practices is possible and the successful implementation of shared services in the administration. As a positive example, he referred to the Republic of Estonia, where an administrative unit ensures the entire accounting need of the administration. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, 3 votes against the Council of Ministers and 1 vote abstention proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement for the provision of advisory services between the administration of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 702-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Since in the report of the Legal Commission I did not notice to be invited here representatives of the Council of Ministers in relation to point one of today's programme, that is why I am proposing to postpone the discussions on point one until a representative of the Council of Ministers arrives, in this case Mr. Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u17	You're doing a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u18	Procedure please invite him. Let's postpone until they come to plenary. After all, the ministers were not present in the committees. We're talking about about $2 million here. Euro obligation of Bulgaria. Please invite them in! Until then, let's postpone the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u19	Come back, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u20	Thank you, Madam President. I do not argue that it is right for a representative of the Council of Ministers to answer, if necessary, a number of questions that the Members of the National Assembly will ask. There is a representative of the administration of the Council of Ministers and should be invited by the President of the National Assembly. However, I do not accept Mr Popov's proposal that the debate on this point be postponed until such a representative is provided. Madam President, I propose that you use your powers and invite a representative of the Council of Ministers by not putting to the vote Mr Popov's proposal to postpone the debate until such a representative arrives in the Chamber of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. We will make it possible to inform the Deputy Prime Minister to come to the Chamber. Please contact the Council of Ministers and inform Mr. Donchev that there is a request from the MPs to be present in the Chamber in the discussion of this point. I put to the vote Mr Popov's proposal to postpone the debate on this point. Vote 154 MPs: 65 against 80 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted. We are continuing with the report by the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mr Vigenin, come in with the report of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ? Report on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the administration of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 702-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2017. At its extraordinary meeting held on 28 June 2017, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the administration of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mr. Krasimir Bojanov Director of the Administration Modernization Directorate at the Council of Ministers. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by this Draft Law is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the above Agreement signed for the Republic of Bulgaria by the Deputy Minister of European Funds on 2 May 2017. The agreement aims to make use of consulting services of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to contribute to the introduction of the principle of shared services in the organization and work of the central administration. The forthcoming reform includes the establishment of an organisational model within which one unit or administration is intended to provide shared services to other administrations. The services will be in the field of human resources management, property management, financial accounting activities and the costs of developing and maintaining the necessary information systems. The agreement provides for consideration of the opportunities for implementation of different approaches for the introduction of shared services in the Bulgarian administration after an analysis of the current state in the country and after a study of good practices from other countries. It is also expected that proposals for regulatory changes will be made following a review and analysis of legislation. Within the project will be prioritized the spheres and/or activities for the introduction of shared services and a roadmap will be created for them. The model is expected to be piloted through the creation of two units for providing shared services in the administration. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has a commitment to develop a Methodology framework for the implementation of shared services, a comprehensive communication programme and a mechanism for managing change to build and maintain support for reforms. Last but not least, it should be borne in mind that the advisory services to be provided by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development will be financed under the Operational Programme "Good Governance" 2014 "2020." The amount to be paid to the bank is BGN 2 390 000. and will be paid on schedule. After the presentation of the bill, Christian Vigenin and Ivelina Vassileva took part in the discussion. They raised questions related to the duration of the contract, its value and its contracting entity, as well as those concerning the results expected to be achieved by this type of services of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and what is the government's commitment to really implement them. The President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds assured the participants in the meeting that the Commission will monitor the implementation of the project within the framework of its activities in the control of the European funds. In view of the above and as a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds unanimously proposed by 8 votes for the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Agreement on Consulting Services between the Administration of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 702-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Will we have an importer's opinion? I can't see. I'm opening the debate. Come in for your speeches, fellow Members. Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleagues, dear MPs, we are attending a unique event - the government of the Republic of Bulgaria does not give a shit about any parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria. Submits the ratification and consultancy contract for 2 million. 400,000. lv. And there's no one from the government. There is no such parliament in Europe and in Africa!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u25	Mr. Donchev will be notified, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u26	The first case in the world where a proposal for ratification by the National Assembly is submitted, there is no one! I say again, send the cleaning lady to the Council of Ministers not to be ashamed. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] With regard to the Consultant's contract. We have no claim against the World Bank, as is the short name of the institution. She has played and played an important role in the structural changes of Bulgaria's economy. A bank that has invested funds for the restructuring of the Bulgarian economy. But we have a claim to the Bulgarian government under this Treaty, as we are talking about nearly 2 million. 400,000. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u27	On which ratification was there a representative of the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u28	First, why are the World Bank services sought by Washington, given that it is about implementing European programmes and restructuring of a member state of the European Union?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u29	Did you send them? My first question is: doesn't the European Union have the capacity to advise Bulgaria on the implementation of these services, so we should sign such a contract? Secondly, do you not see in the treaty that for 24 months, 12 months the World Bank will study what is going on in Bulgaria? Experts from Washington will land, some of them will come to the Balkans for the first time, and will look for a year for the Bulgarian administration what to do, and from the 13th month they will start giving advice. My third question, and I want to be answered, there is no one here, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u30	I've invited Mr. Donchev, Mr. Gechev. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u31	My question is: has the Bulgarian government checked which countries of the European Union have signed such a contract, precisely for these services? Who are these countries to name them Mr. Donchev, and if there are such countries, is it not logical that the Bulgarian government has spent 1000 BGN and sent some expert from the Bulgarian government to see what the results are? In addition, in the Treaty t. It is said that two pilot administrations or administrative activities will be selected where, notice, such pilot groups will be set up to test this programme. Well, who are these pilot groups? Who's gonna pick them? The Bulgarian Government, by concluding a contract, does it not have a proposal for which these pilot groups should be? And we ask the importer: who are these pilot groups and how are they selected? Between me, I am almost certain that the government has not discussed this issue at all about the Treaty. For this reason, the next question is: what was the working group, what was its composition, which concluded that it needed consultations precisely from the World Bank for 2 million. 400,000. lv.? For what reason? I repeat, what is the composition of the task force, is there such a task force that has asked the government to enter into such a contract? Furthermore, there is no evidence in the government's motives for the following: what financial and human resources will be necessary for the implementation of the outcome of these consulting services? How much hardware, what software programs, what human resources, when will it take place? Besides, who's going to charge the expenses? There's no effect. The realization of the outcome of this project, to what costs will it bring in the budget of the relevant ministries? Last but not least, honourable Members, apart from the fact that the government does not come to parliament at all, it does not give a shit about international treaties, see what reasons it has sent you. You didn't see it. [[Shows reasons.]] Ladies and gentlemen, look at the motives of the Bulgarian government - one side from which 90 per 100 are ala-bala, art. Art. 3, Art. 2, have written the long name of the World Bank and they say to you: You are not any MPs, beat the seal of 2 million 400,000. We are not interested in what or how these funds will be used. So you're required to press the button. There's no government representative either. Hardly making such an approach to this Bulgarian government! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u32	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. For lines? Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Gechev, strange Komsomol flame?! Probably after the Buzludja Declaration, you got a little excited on the left side of the room, but you asked nice and valuable questions. You're probably looking for another address?! Dear Mr. Gechev, if you have correctly read the reasons for the draft Law, you will probably be impressed that by a protocol decision of the Council of Ministers, formed in Protocol No 18 at the meeting of 19 April 2017 this draft Agreement has been approved. On 2 May it was signed by the Administration of the Council of Ministers. Dear Mr. Gechev, the government of Boyko Borisov 3, which you claim should be explained, was formed on May 4th. You decide who is responsible for this Treaty..... whether the Gerdjikov government formed and appointed by your President Radev or someone else? That's the question, Mr. Gechev. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u34	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Second line, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u35	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gechev, you said there was no such government in Africa, not even in Africa. I would like to ask you: is there a country in the world, even in Africa, where a government that broke down the state and which made pensions and wages 3 dollars has not been judged and has not been imprisoned? Is there such a country? Only in Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. Mr. Kirilov, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u37	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Honourable Professor. Gechev, I admit, I did not expect, for the second time you take the floor for an opinion with a certain aggression on the occasion of ratifications of international contracts, which are negotiated by the Republic of Bulgaria. I didn't expect from you, as a well-known professor of economy, such manipulation in view of the status of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Prof. Gechev! I would like to say that in addition to the European Bank's office for Europe in London, you are well aware that the European Bank has a special office, special representation in Sofia, there is such representation in Sofia and you know that this is more than 15 years. And all these people saying that some clerk is coming by on the plane from Washington, they're ridiculous. These people are here. These people help and you know well how many projects for Bulgaria help. It's a shame!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Gechev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u39	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague and friend Kirilov, it is a shame to mistake, it is a shame not to distinguish between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Bank. Probably a technical error?! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u40	That's where the seat is.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u41	Colleague, for your information, the International Bank, you're a lawyer, the other is the same, it's in Washington, and that's where the plane comes from. And the plane from London is for European... Let me repeat: the World Bank is in Washington and the European Bank is in London. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I guess you remembered it first. Secondly, which government has accepted? But I'm sorry, this government is bringing the draft ratification to parliament. And we raise the question: there is no such practice in Africa, the MPs to ask the government since 1858, and they ask this government and it does not respect us, it is not here.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u42	No, Mr. Gechev, there is a Council of Ministers. A director of the department will come to explain what they are...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u43	When's he coming? For Christmas?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u44	Any minute now. He's on his way.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u45	All right! Bravo! That's very commendable. My colleague's response to the five dollars or the ten dollars will answer you this way: you honourable Members have proposed because of their high qualifications of this government you are attacking, the following people you voted them. The colleague Dimitar Kostov was Minister of Finance of the Government Videnov and you elected him Head of Supervision. You brought us and introduced us to the whole of Bulgaria another highly qualified colleague - Dimitar Radev, head of the National Bank, who was deputy of the Minister of Finance of the Government Videnov. Hey, have a nice day. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u46	Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u47	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I take the floor to make some clarification, however. We've found out which banks we're talking about. I would like to say now that the proposed Advisory Services Programme and the contract proposed to be ratified today is not the first one, but another one with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We asked in the framework of the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds various issues, some of them related to the results of previous consulting services contracts, what is the result of them, what are the effects; did the government or did the governments actually implement the relevant recommendations, what is the effect of them? Unfortunately, we haven't been able to get any answers to these questions since... I guess this is where the same director's gonna be now, so there's probably no point in sending him, making sense of a political presence. But when I say that, I don't get illusions. We in the Commission voted in favour of this agreement on the following condition: Firstly, I think we should ask for written information on the issues I mentioned and about which we did not receive an answer. Secondly, I also make a personal commitment, but also on behalf of the Commission, that the implementation of this Project be monitored periodically for the entire period of its implementation and, accordingly, the ministers who will benefit from the results of this contract and the services that the bank will provide to report. Firstly, whether the results are adequate to the task assigned. Secondly, in what way the results of this project will actually contribute to the modernization of the Bulgarian administration, so as not to get the impression that by habit we continue to give some money to some consultants in the International Bank and to continue because this is the tradition. Any lev that is used, whether it is under operational programmes, meaning European money, or from the budget, must be used effectively and we have no right to gifts, including the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u49	We'll wait for the man from the Council of Ministers to come, won't we?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u50	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u51	Come in for a procedure, Mr. Popov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u52	Mr. Tomislav Donchev, on behalf of a parliamentary group, I said to Mr. Tomislav Donchev for a 30-minute break in order to have the opportunity to come, to attend. [[Noise and lines.]] Questions were asked to the respective minister, let us provide him with this opportunity to come, to be present and to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u53	Mr. Popov, I have no right to take a break because it hasn't been an hour since the beginning of the session.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u54	Yeah, they're missing about 30 seconds. I agree, about 30 seconds are missing.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u55	Let's move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u56	A second procedure in relation to the forthcoming vote. Please give me a name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u57	Please give me the list of MPs. Adlen Shukri Shevked - absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - absent Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov - here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddi - absent Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - absent Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Angel Iliev Isaev - here Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Dinev Todorov - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - here Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Bogdan Emilov Botsev - here Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Bjurhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - here Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Zheleva - here Vladimir Slavchev Slavchev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Vasileva - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - here Georgi Evdokiev Markov - here Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - here Georgi Kolev Kolev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - here Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Jekova Taneva - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Donka Dimova Simeonova - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - absent Evgenia Danailova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emilia Milkova Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Errol Osman Mehmed - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivaylo Lubenov Konstantinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov - here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Kirov Genov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - here Iglika Ivanova Ivanova-Subeva - absent Ilian Angelov Timchev - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - here Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - here Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - here Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska - here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - absent Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - here Krastina Nikolova Taskova - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - here Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - here Nikola Iliev Dinkov - here Nikolay Asenov Tishev - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - absent [[Additionally registered MPs: Alexander Sabanov, Alexander Siddy, Adlen Shevked, Bürhan Abase, Yordan Tsonev.]] Colleagues, we have a quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u58	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u59	Come in for a procedure, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u60	Thank you, Madam President. I'm renewing my procedure for a 30-minute break. We are sure that Mr. Donchev has a great desire to come. Let's give him that opportunity. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u61	Colleagues, we have already secured the presence of a director of the Directorate of the Council of Ministers "Mr. Krasimir Bojanov is here. Please vote procedure for Mr. Bojanov's admission. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Bojankov is from BSP, Bojanov from the Council of Ministers. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u62	Vote 172 MPs: 130, against 25, abstention 17. Please invite Mr. Bojanov to the hall. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There was a procedure, but before that, there was a first vote. I shall put the bill to the vote first. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] He'll answer you! I followed the sequence carefully, and first there was a vote on the bill. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The bill was put to the first vote to end this and we will continue. We are voting on the bill in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u63	Procedure in the manner of conduct. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u64	Once the vote's over, I'll...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u65	What are you making fun of...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u66	Sit down, Mr. Gechev! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u67	I'm not going to sit down!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u68	Sit down, Mr. Gechev! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I remind you to sit down! I'm making a note of you sitting in your seat!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u69	I'm not gonna sit down until you answer my questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u70	I'm taking you out of the courtroom! The Quaestors, remove him! [[Applause from GERB.]] Please suspend the vote and declare the result. Vote 127 MPs: 101, against 12, abstention 14. The bill was passed in the first vote. Go ahead, Mrs. Atanasova. [[People from BSP for Bulgaria are leaving the hall.]] Wait, please, to determine who will be present and who will leave the room. [[Noise and lines.]] There is no request for a break in time that suggests such a thing! Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u72	Wait. Wait, please! Ladies and gentlemen of the BSP for Bulgaria, who will remain in the debates, please sit down and who will not please leave the Chamber. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear Mrs. Yoncheva, dear Mr. Vitanov? [[People representatives Elena Yoncheva and Petar Vitanov leave the hall.]] Thank you. Mr. Peter Kanev, are you in? Take your place if you're in it! [[Relations from the National Representative Petar Kanev.]] Then please leave! Mr. Atalay! Please have your colleagues take their seats. Mr. Dimitrov, Mr. Alexandrov! [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Kanev, Mr. Boychev! Come in for the procedure, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I propose that the bill for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the administration of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development should be considered in a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u74	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 121 MPs: 99, against 22, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Who will present the bill? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u75	THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the administration of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development A single member. The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Project No P156952) signed on 2 May 2017. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u76	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament from the groups that are still here! I think it's completely unnecessary to create tension. I would suggest I make a formal offer for half an hour's rest. In this half hour there is still a chance Deputy Prime Minister Donchev will come to answer the questions that were asked. Some of them may not be comfortable, but some of them are completely legitimate. Let us answer these questions, then vote at second reading. I do not see any reason at the moment to press the vote on this Agreement, frankly. This is my proposal on behalf of a group for half an hour's rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Fifteen-minute break. Then we move on. [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u79	Honourable Members, we continue with the second vote on: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE CONSULTANT SERVICES AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOGNITION AND DEVELOPMENT. You have the floor to speak. If there isn't, because questions were asked at the first vote, Mr. Bojanov, please come in for clarification. If any other questions arise, Mr. Bojanov is available to answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u80	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Krasimir Bojanov, Director of the Administration Modernization Directorate in the administration of the Council of Ministers. Since I was not present at the time of asking the questions, I will, in a few words, present what I presented in the committees on the contents of the bill, and then I hope to have the opportunity to get acquainted with the content of the questions in order to possibly answer some of them. The object of the Agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is the introduction of the principle of shared services in the organisation of the work of the central administration, and the World Bank of this Agreement appears to be the contractor and consultant of the government itself. The commitment of the Bank takes place on the basis of the framework instrument concluded between the Government and the World Bank, the Memorandum of Understanding, partnership and support for the absorption of the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014 - 2020. On the basis of this framework instrument, separate agreements are concluded which, due to the financial commitments and other ratification clauses, pass through the National Assembly for ratification. At least two of these have already passed within the previous parliament for ratification. The Agreement implements one of the measures provided for in the State Administration Development Strategy for the period 2014-2020 and the roadmap for its implementation, by means of a project which is intended to be financed by the Operational Programme "Good Governance" and the conclusion of the Agreement was carried out within the framework of the caretaker government on the basis of the mandate given again to the caretaker government. The conclusion took place on 2 May 2017 by the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds Malina Krumova. What is the agreement of a meaningful party? This is about introducing an innovative practice in administrative management, introducing the principle of shared services, which represents the concentration of functions of the general administration at a higher level with different variations of this principle, or the concentration of these functions in the administration of senior managers with a budget, which establish units that serve all structures within the ministry concerned, or it is a unit which shares the performance of these functions for several departments. Even in some countries, a model has been introduced in which certain functions, for example accounting, are carried out for the entire central government. Because of what is included in the Strategy for the Development of State Administration, the principle of shared services as a practice, which is set to be introduced in the Bulgarian administration? It has been reported over the years that the existing model of the organization of the structures of the common administration is characterized by high costs, extremely diverse practices and poor coordination in the activity, with almost every structure in the Bulgarian administration maintaining its own common administration for carrying out similar general administrative activities. It was therefore decided to engage the World Bank, first of all, to examine what are the possibilities for implementing this principle in the Bulgarian central government in several areas, those for which experience has already been gained in other countries. We are talking, first of all, about human resources and financial accounting activities. Second, the Bank has a commitment under the Agreement to analyse and submit a report on the possibilities for optimization of the management of the administration's weekend bases by providing this report to the Government for follow-up. The main and most extensive activity in the implementation of this Agreement consists of the Bank's participation, through presence and on-site teams for months for the implementation of its proposed opportunities for the implementation of shared services in two pilot administrations, for which the Bulgarian Government has committed itself, to be determined by the Administrative Reform Council, based on the results that will be achieved, reported and analysed by the Bank, the other administrations will subsequently, outside of this Project, have the opportunity to benefit from an equivalent model or adapted to their needs. Teams of the Bank were already in Bulgaria to investigate what is the legal framework, what are the software products used within different departments. The only thing to wait for is the entry into force of the Agreement to begin its actual activity. It's like an opening statement. I expect to hear the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u81	Thank you, Mr. Bojanov. You are welcome to speak, Mr. Stoinev, within which questions you will ask, perhaps. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, of course, we from the BSP for Bulgaria and we have questions, as we are talking about 2 million. 390 thousand. BGN, and we want concrete and clear answers. I hope Mr. Bojanov will give them to us. Our first question is, why has the Council of Ministers not applied to the World Bank, as well as a protocol of the Council of Ministers' decision to see how this choice came about? This is not about which government has adopted this decision. It is important to us why exactly the World Bank and not for example the European Commission, which has sufficient capacity and knows European practices, while the World Bank will de facto study the specifics and examine the administration in European Bulgaria. Our second question is this: it is said that there have already been examples with other Member States of the European Union. Who are the countries of the European Union where the World Bank has provided this type of services and, of course, what are the results? For us it is important, of course, did the Council of Ministers do research from the experience of these countries? Are there posted experts from the Council of Ministers in these countries to see the results of the programme? Point 2.1 and 2.2 notes that two pilot administrations and administrative activities will be selected to implement shared services. After all, there is no way we can agree here to spend more than 2 million. lv. and not knowing exactly who these two pilot administrations will be. We believe that when such funds are spent, it is necessary to know precisely the exact pilot administrations. In the motives, of course, there is not a word about the effect of the realization of this contract. What financial and human resources will be needed for the possible introduction of shared services? If pilot projects are successful, who will be the cost of European programmes, government or municipalities? What additional equipment or software will be needed to implement the results of pilot projects? We believe that these are important, specific questions that we want to have an answer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. Please, Mr. Bojanov, answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u84	I'll answer the order of questioning. I took four questions. First of all, why the World Bank and not the European Commission? Since the financing of this measure is under an operational programme, the European Commission has been consulted on who could implement it. They do not have a direct practice to be performers of such projects, that is, the choice is from a contractor within Bulgaria and an external authority, which must carry out a relatively drastic reform with regard to administrations, which have identified serious problems, high costs and which are expected to have a high degree of resistance. The other reason why the World Bank was elected is related to their participation in similar projects. I have no information that they were the main contractor of the same project in other countries, rather they were engaged in individual elements and separate reforms. The formality of the government's protocol regarding how the World Bank was elected, there is no procedure under which to be formalised by means of a protocol such a decision. After all, the legislative framework is such that the process began with the decision of the government, which I mentioned, on the basis of which it was assigned a particular member of the government to conduct the negotiations, to conclude the agreement. This procedure has been carried out under the International Contracts Act and has developed fully within the framework of the caretaker government. With regard to examples: for which Member States? The emblematic examples that are taken as an example within the European Union are Estonia, which has introduced a Single Centre for the accounting services of the entire central government, as far as I know, are already expanding the implementation of this reform in relation to municipalities; Denmark, which has also introduced the principle of shared services and in terms of financial accounting activities and elements of human resources; Slovakia, as well as several other countries that are proceeding in this reform. There are also Member States in which this reform has been introduced again within pilot administrations. Visits to officials of the administration of the Council of Ministers in other countries have not been made because we exchange experience under the established mechanisms of the informal network of public administration within the European Union. During the Slovak Presidency, Slovakia, which also started with this reform, asked one questionnaire to other countries to look into which activities, which administrations, which model of shared services and what are the positives that are already reported. Several Member States which responded share that the positive results were very fast and, at first, not so much in terms of budget savings from the transfer of administrations and activities to a higher level as regards a drastic increase in the quality of the services provided due to the different administrative capacity that occurs at the different levels of authorising officers. With regard to the two pilot administrations. They're still running drills who they're supposed to be. The preference is to be willing, but the logic of the fact is followed that when the Agreement enters into force only then, on the basis of an effective legal act, the wish of the relevant administrations will be stated. I cannot share at this stage, as it is a matter of the political decision of the ministers themselves, who is willing to go towards such a drastic reform within their administration. He's got ideas for three or four ministries. Perhaps at least three of them will be willing and one perhaps because there is nowhere, because of the huge imbalance in the costs of managing administrative activities. As far as the impact is concerned. It is impossible at this stage to mention it because the role of the Bank is to identify the opportunities that would allow adaptability to the Bulgarian reality to achieve maximum effect. For example, the greatest effect is expected in terms of their analysis to optimize the management model of the administration's weekend bases, as it is known that... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If you don't like the theme of the weekend bases, I'll go back to... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Okay. ... In addition, the Commission notes that the Bank's restructuring plan has been implemented by the Bank of Greece and the Bank of Greece and the Bank of Greece and the Bank of Greece, as well as by the Bank of Greece and the Bank of Greece, has been approved by the Bank of Greece and the Bank of Greece. In terms of human resources. The model of transfer of activities from secondary to senior authorising officers means, respectively, reduction of jobs in secondary officers, agencies, especially based in Sofia, because we do not expect people who are located in territorial units to switch to work in Sofia, accordingly increasing the units within the senior authorising officers, concentration and uniformity of these activities, practices, knowledge and know-how of administrative activities as a primary authorising officer. For software products is perhaps the most important and key issue in the field of human resources. What is set out in the Agreement is for the Bank to carry out, to upgrade the Single Information System of Human Resources in the State Administration, which was created precisely as a common product to be used by all administrations and which would allow really in an extremely easy way to carry out the transfer of administrative activities in the field of human resources within the chief authorising officers. But this system has one defect that was reported by the administration. It is that it lacks the possibility of accounting salaries and all that is related to staff costs. If this is the condition that has already been identified by all administrations to join this system, the bank will carry out such an upgrade and it is entrusted with this Agreement. As regards software products in the field of financial accounting activities, they are diverse. However, it is assumed that competition should not be distorted by imposing a single product on all administrations. However, those who choose to participate with a model in which, within one system, a model of shared services will be implemented in relation to secondary officers, the integration of accounting software will be carried out on their account or we will switch to the general software product, which, for example, is used by the chief authorising officer. I hope I've been able to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u85	Thank you, Mr. Bojanov. I shall put it to the vote: THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the administration of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development A single member. The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Project No P156952) signed on 2 May 2017. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. Please vote, honourable Members. Vote 151 MPs: 90 against 48 abstentions 13. The bill was passed in a second vote. Dear colleagues, before we proceed with the next point, let me inform you that our guests are residents of the town of Teteven on the balcony. Please say hello. [[Applause.]] Coming up next: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEEDING PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROCUREMENT OF CANDIDATES FOR A PRESENT, A RESPONSIBILITY AND THE COMMISSION'S MEMBERS FOR THE PROTECTION OF DISCRIMINATION, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND RECOGNITION OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION FOR THE VEROISATION AND RIGHTS OF HUMANS, AS AND THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF THE CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION Report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, which will be introduced to you by the President of the Commission. You have the floor, dear Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u86	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe on draft decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, Presentation and Public Disclosure of Documents and Hearing of Applicants in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, and the procedure for election by the National Assembly At an extraordinary meeting held on 11 July 2017, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights discussed procedural rules for conducting a public procedure under art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of President, Vice-President and Members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. In accordance with art. 41 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination, the National Assembly must elect a President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. In accordance with art. 93, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be made following a public procedure. The procedure shall be conducted on the basis of the rules of procedure adopted by the National Assembly drawn up by the committee responsible for each election, according to art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. During the discussion no proposals were made on the draft decision for adoption of procedural rules for conducting a public procedure under art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of President, Vice-President and Members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Following the debates on procedural rules, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights unanimously proposed to the National Assembly: Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and Members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, Presentation and Public Disclosure of Documents and Hearing of Candidates in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 41 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Offering candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and Members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination and Presentation of their Documents. 1. Proposals for a Chair, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination shall be made by Members of the National Assembly and Parliamentary Groups. The proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights through the President of the National Assembly within 5 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals shall be accompanied by written reasons that justify the applicant's high professional and moral qualities. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) written consent of the applicant in accordance with Annex 1 to the Decision; (b) a detailed CV; (c) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed higher education; (d) documents certifying that the applicant meets the requirement under art. 42, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on protection against discrimination for knowledge and experience in the field of the protection of human rights; (e) a criminal record; (f) a statement by model, according to Annex 2 to the decision that the applicant has Bulgarian citizenship, as required by art. 42, para. 1 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination; (g) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to the State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to Annex 3 to the Decision in duplicate. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The proposals, together with the documents under Section I, t. 2 shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly no later than 7 days before the hearing. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. 2. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use may submit opinions on candidates to the Commission on religion and human rights, including issues to be referred to them no later than 3 days before the hearing of candidates. 3. The mass media may send questions to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights to candidates to be referred to them during the hearing no later than 3 days before the hearing of the candidates. 4. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 5. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Aleksandar I" No 1, Commission on Religions and Human Rights, or by e-mail: kvpch@parliament.bg. 6. Opinions and questions shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly within 3 days of their receipt, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination shall be checked for belonging to the bodies under art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Commission on Religions and Human Rights. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Hearing the admissions candidates. 1. Before hearing the proposed candidates, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights shall verify the documents submitted and whether the candidates meet the requirements for taking up the respective position. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The candidates shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals in alphabetical order of the names of the candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and members in an exhibition within three minutes. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Each candidate shall be given the opportunity to present his or her concept of work as Chairman, Vice-President or Member of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination in an exhibition within seven minutes. 5. The President of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights shall present in summary the persons who have received, under the terms and conditions of Section II, i.e. 2 et c. 3, opinions and questions. 6. The applicant's response to the opinions submitted and the questions asked shall be up to five minutes. 7. Members of the National Assembly may ask questions to the candidate. Question statement time is up to two minutes. 8. Each candidate shall be given the right to answer after the questions asked to him have been exhausted. The response time is up to five minutes. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights shall draw up within the meaning of art. 93, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing presenting the candidates and submitting them to the National Assembly. If several candidates for the position in question have been heard, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights shall attach to the report a list of candidates participating in the hearing, alphabetically arranged for their own names. The report shall also be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for the relevant position in the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. V. Election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination by the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. 3. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 4. The National Assembly shall elect separately the Chair of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, the Vice-President and the three Members. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. In the event that the two or more candidates for one position have received an equal number of votes, a re-vote shall be held between them. 7. Where none of the candidates for the position concerned receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for the position concerned shall take part. 8. If neither of the candidates for the respective position receive the necessary votes during the re-voting vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. Annexes 1, 2 and 3 to the report are next?! Yes, thank you. Will we have an importer's opinion? No. Statements? I'm opening the debate, fellow Members, please come in for a speech. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, examining the rules of procedure for the selection of a new leadership of the Commission on Discrimination is an occasion for us to say some things about the Commission on Discrimination itself. Such occasions have many times become the views of new guides or reporting reports of other committees. Seven or eight years ago, we at the Ataka counted about 130 in the country 140 such institutions, committees, departments, and I don't know what to call them yet. During this time, I am sure that their number has not decreased, but has increased, to great regret. And we're talking about reducing the administrative burden, fewer officials, fewer secretaries and service cars, offices and any more supplies?! Kurt Vonnegut has one set-up, in a book he calls them the "granfolons" people who are united and engage in empty and insane goals. So this Commission has been dealing with this, and this is what we have been talking about for many years. Yes, we will vote on the rules of procedure, we will elect seven new members and President of the Commission, and what will it do? Nothing! What will it contribute to society so far? Whatever she contributed, I mean, nothing. This Commission will have offices, there will be secretaries, there will be cars, and all of this will be very blue-collar. You will say: Yes, this is given by Europe, we must have under European orders such an institution. That's not an argument to me. For me, an argument is what is pragmatic, what we need, what may result in some benefit. The benefit is for certain political forces and parties, especially the benefit so far has been for the DPS. The benefit of the DPS is that they put in for their members there, and especially the presidents of these nice blue-collar positions, all of their dropouts from here, or their senior party nomenclature. The benefit is for the grenades who also pull the strings and try to carry out processes. The benefit is for the Sorosoyans, or the Sorosoyads, based in Ovcha coupel, where they also employ their most regularly in this Commission and try to carry out as they express themselves: the politicians. The word "politics" was once introduced by them and continues to be used, even became a legal concept in the Bulgarian political dictionary. I can list you at least a dozen institutions, headed by the Prosecution, who deal with the subject of human rights, which can exercise control and supervision on this line and in this regard. And they're doing their job. And this Commission is even with a special jurisdiction. It issues acts, penal decrees. And who are the victims of the penalties issued? The victims are media that are constantly being punished by the TV station Alpha and the TV station are the most regular clients of this Commission. The other victims are Bulgarian patriots. In order to take account of activity, there is always a reason to be hit by the Commission by criminal decrees here and there by restaurant workers who did not allow any citizen, and see, because he was just what you are, by an ethnic minority or of a more special status. In other words, this Commission, very often becomes a baton in the hands of foreign powers that exert influence that try to guide society into a neoliberal thinking, that is the work of this Commission. So now I finish with the words: we will draw up the rules of procedure, we will choose a new guide. I have not consulted for the moment what this Commission receives as a state subsidy from the state budget. I'm sure it's not a little bit of a two or three million I think it is, and that's how I judge it without having information. Let us think about the closure of this Commission or its transformation into something else, if you want it so badly and if you so wish it to be preserved, but to save money to the Bulgarian taxpayer and not to bring this damage to the Bulgarian society so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm calling off the debate. We are going to vote on the draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, and the three annexes to this Report. They voted 146 MPs: 143, none, abstention 3. The proposal is accepted, and with this the Project for a solution. Moving on to item three on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR FAMILY HELPS FOR CHILDREN. Firstly, I will give the floor from the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports for a report. Mrs. Georgieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u90	Madam President, honourable Members. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for children, No 754-01-28, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 22 June 2017. At its regular meeting on 5 July 2017, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 754-01-28, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 22 June 2017. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Elena Kremenlieva, Director of Department of Social Inclusion at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and Dr. Valentin Dimitrov Vice-President of the State Agency for Child Protection. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Vesela Lecheva, who explained in her statement that the proposed amendments and additions to the Family Aids Act for children are offered the one-off aid to cover part of the costs at the beginning of the school year for children in the first grade of low income families to expand and to cover families with children in second, third and fourth grade. Ms. Lecheva stressed that the proposed changes are aimed at reducing the number of early dropouts from the educational system, as one of the main problems for this is, apart from socio-economic and family problems, and the disincentive of students from the first and second grade. According to the importer, the financial resources needed to implement these changes to the Family Aid Act for children can be provided in the adopted state budget for 2017 and will cover approximately 120 thousand children. The Commission presented written opinions on the draft Law by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the State Agency for Child Protection, the National Network of Children, the National Network of Children, the CCC, the KT "Supporta", the Union of the Economic Initiative, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance do not support the proposed amendments and additions, stressing in their written presentations that under the budget programme, the support of families with children. This general wording is contrary to the provisions of the Public Finance Act with regard to financial collateralisation. It is pointed out that the main risk of introducing the new type of aid, apart from the lack of financial collateralisation, is the inequality of students up to the 12th grade, and that the detention of children at school cannot be ensured only through financial support. In the opinions of the State Agency for Child Protection and the National Network of Children have in principle expressed written support of the Bill, but note that it is necessary to refine the norms, as well as the need for a comprehensive comparative analysis of the different groups of children, with the aim of providing aid to low income families to target a wider range of children attending school until compulsory education is completed. The Bulgarian Industrial and Trade Chamber refrains from supporting the proposed amendments by the employers' Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria, and the reasons for this are: lack of feedback and security, giving this money to keep children in the educational system, and that the funds are not provided for in the budget. The Union for Business Initiative fully supports the Bill. From the trade union organizations, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria refrained from supporting the bill, as they say there is no justification and analysis of its impact. KT "Support" fully supports the bill. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Slavcho Atanasov, Svetlana Angelova, Hristo Prodanov, Valentin Milushev, Ivan Chenchev, Teodora Halacheva, Boriana Georgieva and Vladimir Valev. During the discussion two groups of opinions were formed. Some of the MPs who spoke expressed their support for the Bill, expressing their opinion that the proposed changes will stimulate parents to bring their children to school at all costs in the years of primary education, when they acquire the basic educational habits, and according to them the financial instrument is needed, as between the first and fourth grade is the most risky period for dropping students from the learning process, based on data for 6000 children who have dropped out of the education system in this educational period. Regarding the provision of the necessary financial resources, they do not see any obstacle to updating the 2017 budget. Another part of the MPs who participated in the discussion did not support the bill by arguing with the shortcomings of the proposed changes. As major problems have pointed out that: there is no clarity on what principle a target group is defined from first to fourth grade. This inevitably leads to inequality of students from fifth to 12th grade, because regardless of the age of children, each student's family has the corresponding costs at the beginning of the school year. There are no serious estimates of the additional financial resources, both in the medium and long term. The imposition of a change in the cost of an established annual budget requires a more serious analysis and impact assessment. There is no guarantee of the proper spending of the funds from the one-off aid, i.e. whether they will actually go to their intended purpose. There is no analysis of the commitment itself between single aid at the beginning of the school year and the effect that is being sought to keep children in the educational system. The prevention of early dropping out of the educational system of children is to take integrated measures by the different institutions. In relation to the views of the participants in the discussion and in order to achieve an effective link between the granting of aid and objectives achieved, as well as to avoid the division of children into groups, at the end of the discussion was proposed as the best solution the formation of a working group of all political forces represented in the Commission to draft amendments to the Family Aid Act for children, in which to avoid all the deficiencies mentioned above and provide for the necessary financial resources for the next budget year. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held with.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u91	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. Next, a report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u92	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 5 July 2017 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Rositsa Dimitrova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Sonya Krastanova, Director of the Department of Finance and the Ministry of Education and Science, Mrs. Evgenia Orlova, State Expert at the Department of State Expenditure, Dr. Valentin Dimitrov, Deputy Chairman of the State Agency for Child Protection, and Ms. Mariana Pissarska, Member of the National Network for Children. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Georgi Gokov. The changes offer the one-off aid to cover part of the costs at the beginning of the school year for children from low income families to expand and to be granted not only for the first grade, but also for families with children in the II, III and IV classes. This is an age at which children grow up quickly and at the very least, with which the state can and should help them, is the provision of the necessary means of clothing and shoes at the beginning of the school year. For the school year 2016 - 2017 as well as for the previous three school years, the one-time support for children in the first grade is 250 BGN. Mr. Gokov stressed that while maintaining this amount and for the upcoming 2017 academic year, the additional funds needed for this measure will be around 30 million. BGN, which can be provided within the framework of the budget overexecution and from available reserves, without changing the Law on the State Budget. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy does not support the bill. The opinion stresses that it is not clear from the reasons of the importers what principle it is determined that it is children up to the fourth grade who have a much more serious need for support than other students. According to the Ministry, there is no provision in the Bill regulating the granting of one-off aid for admission to the second, third and fourth grade respectively when the family is sanctioned due to irregular school visits in the first grade and the aid is recovered. The opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy draws attention to the fact that under the budget programme "Helping families with children" for 2017 no funds are provided for the introduction of a new kind of family assistance. The Ministry of Finance does not support the Draft Law by considering that the extension of the aid to the 2nd to 4th grade students, including, will not reduce the number of students leaving the education system, since, according to the data of the National Statistical Institute, for example, the number of students leaving for family reasons from I to IVth grade for the 2015 academic year is about 15% lower than the 2010 academic year 2011. Next, the Ministry of Finance also stressed that there are no specific sources in the reasons for the bill, and the general wording of the budget re-execution and available reserves is contrary to the provisions of the Public Finance Act. In addition, the Ministry of Finance notes that there are inaccuracies in the reasoning, for example indicating the proportion of persons at risk of poverty and social exclusion, which is over 40% in 2015, but without taking into account the trend that it is decreasing, for example, compared to 2014, when its value was 41.3%. The opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science points out that the largest share of students dropping out of school is in the secondary and secondary stages of education, in this regard the Bill does not take into account the different needs of children with increasing age. The factors affecting the scope and retention of students in the educational system are complex and the increase of the target aid for students enrolled in the II, III and IV classes may not only not have a positive effect, but also cause a different effect than the desired effect. In conclusion, the Ministry of Education and Science takes the view that the policy of social support for families with children should to a greater extent be linked to the visit of their children to school and to a lesser extent to the principle of common income support. In its opinion, the State Agency for Child Protection notes that the funds provided for aid to low-income families should be targeted appropriately at a wider range of children attending school until compulsory education is completed, but for this purpose it is necessary to conduct a comprehensive comparative analysis for the different groups of children covering pre-school, primary, primary and secondary education. In conclusion, it is stressed that the financial effect of the proposed changes and measures should be assessed. The National Network for Children in their opinion also shares the need to introduce an integrated approach between the various sectoral policies to address poverty problems and, in particular, prevention of school drop-out. In the discussion of the bill took part the MPs Hasan Ademov, Claudia Gancheva, Albena Naydenova and Julian Papashimov. During the discussion were discussed the main problems posed by the Bill, namely: the level of the students to the IVth grade and those from the Vth to the XIIth grade; the lack of a link between receiving one-off aid at the beginning of the school year and dropping the children from the education system; The funds for these aids are not provided for in the state budget, the budget is not guaranteed and there is generally uncertainty about the source of funding, which sectors will be drawn from and how this will be motivated; "Dispute of the bill with the Public Finance Act; The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Following the end of the discussion and the vote with results: 9 votes for the vote, 1 vote against the vote and 11 votes abstention, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly not to support the Family Aid Act for Children, No 754-01-28, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u93	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u94	Madam President, if you would allow me, in connection with the discussion of the Bill, to make a procedural proposal to invite the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Rositsa Dimitrova to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u95	Please, let's vote on a tolerance regime. Vote 95 MPs: 91 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I'm announcing a 30-minute recess, and then we'll invite the Deputy Minister into the Chamber. We'll proceed with an importer's opinion. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u96	Colleagues, please take your seats, continue the meeting. To remind you, we're on t. 3 The First Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children "Contributor Cornelia Nino" and a group of MPs on 22 June 2017. The two reports were read. We move on to the opinion of the importer Mr. Gokov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u97	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I will begin the presentation of our Statistic Bill, a grim and relentless statistic that gives the picture of the size of poverty in our country. The poverty and social spread of the Bulgarian society is not enough that they are terrifying, but they also grow every year. It's not like we're living in a civilized society, but in wild capitalism, like we're not living in Europe, but in some colonial country from the distant past. It is as if not all Bulgarians are equal, as stated in our Constitution, but some small number of people are chosen, but many are slaves. I do not wish to give political direction to the debates on such an important topic, but I can not help but note that this division is growing every year. During the last 7-8 years he has managed GERB and it is their responsibility for the current deepening of inequalities. We have reached the point that in 2016 20% of Bulgarians with the highest incomes receive 7.9 times more than 20 percent of Bulgarians with the lowest incomes. This for Bulgaria is the largest financial spread since there are statistics. For comparison, in Scandinavian countries this ratio is about 3 to 3.5 times. In 2016 the total poverty line for the country was BGN 308,17. a monthly average of a household person. At this level of the line below the poverty threshold, there were 1 million. 638 thousand. persons, or 22.9 per cent of the population of the country, and 40.4% of the population of the country is 2 million. 890 thousand. persons at risk of poverty and social exclusion. It is important to mention that in 2016 the share of the poor among the persons employed is increasing by 3.8% compared to the previous year and reaches 11.6%. In other words, even if you work in Bulgaria, there are no guarantees that you will make ends meet. In order to motivate our proposal, I will serve with some more statistics. From the analyses of the National Statistical Institute and, in particular, the indicators of poverty and social exclusion, which are part of the common indicators of the European Community to monitor the progress of countries in combating poverty and social exclusion, it is clearly and categorically seen that the educational level has a significant impact on the risk of poverty. Maybe it's even the most important influence. It is obvious, for example, that the relative share of the working poor is the highest after those with primary and non-educational education. It is apparent that as the educational level increases, the relative share of the poor among the workers decreases. Poverty assessments according to the type of household show that the highest proportion of the poor among single-member households with persons over 65 years of age is the highest. Unfortunately, they are closely followed by single parents with children, as well as households with three or more children. The greatest increase in the risk of poverty in 2016 compared to 2015 was observed in single-parent households. As is apparent, unfortunately, with extreme regret, these negative trends for increasing poverty and the risk of poverty are most reflected in families with children, in ensuring normal conditions for the upbringing and life of these children, including the acquisition of education. In 2016, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 32% of children up to 17 years of age in Bulgaria are at risk of poverty or 6.5 percentage points higher than in 2015. And a little more statistics in order to move you, and you really need someone to move you, because there is not a single budget adopted by you in which social payments are not frozen. I start with the statistics it is once again dark and relentless. Speak for yourself about the condition in Bulgaria. The relative share of children with material deprivation is 51.4% and for 6% of children no need can be satisfied for financial reasons. Nearly half of the children - 43-44% - can not afford a vacation outside the home at least one week a year. 41% do not allow extracurricular, extracurricular regular activities such as swimming, playing a musical instrument, participating in youth organizations and so on. 43% of children do not have equipment and separate outfits for outdoor games. For every 2 out of 5 children can not be secured buying books that are suitable for their age, but without textbooks and study aids, or buying two pairs of shoes by size depending on the season. In 2016, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 42% of children with material deprivation also live at risk of poverty. I turn to the MPs to ask: are these our children, is this human, is this civilized, are we a country of the European Union, or are we from the feudal world?! And why are we mad at Europe for driving us at two speeds? Why do we allow such division among the children of Bulgaria? How many speeds do our children travel in our society? And a few more statistics for the 2015/2016 school year. Over 6,000. children from I to IV have dropped out of the education system. Why'd they drop out? Anyone run an analysis? Maybe for financial reasons. There will be no reduction on this indicator for the academic year 2016/2017 simply because you manage again from GERB and still do nothing to overcome the problem. You can't do the same thing and expect different results. Horrible and gloomy statistics against the backdrop of an even more terrifying and gloomy demographic disaster. The signal lamp for the problem is glowing with bright light, but someone has to pay attention to it. You will not do this because as a party you have no social sensitivity. Isn't it more important to sanitize, build highways, brag to Europe about what achievements we have for this and for that, but the same Europe in its reports on Bulgaria says that poverty is a mass phenomenon that has taken over our country, you close your eyes. And you forgot that the most valuable capital is human capital. Can a nation exist, I don't even say prosper, but exist in this regard to its children?! Against this background, it is clear in this situation, reaching critical sizes with vague, pessimistic and gloomy prospects for development, that all actions have been delayed. But an improvement in economic performance, as you claim to achieve with your management, is accompanied by the application of urgent, enhanced and concrete measures to support children from low-income families, as we propose, measures that mitigate the negative consequences and create minimal comfort and minimum opportunities and conditions to attend school by absolutely all Bulgarian children without exception. We can expect, albeit slowly, improvement in social exclusion indicators. And since we see from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria that in the budget framework for the next four years there is again no hint for thawing the support of the poorest sections of the population, we have allowed ourselves to submit this bill because it is evident from the statistics that for the more educated Bulgarians the risk of poverty and social exclusion is less. By giving all today's children the opportunity to be educated and educated in every way, we give them the opportunity to integrate and realize in order not to weigh on the social system as adults. Our proposal consists of the following: aid for the start of the school year for low-income children to expand and to be granted not only for the first grade, as it is so far, but also for the second, third and fourth grade children. For the school year 2016 - 2017 this one-time aid is 250 BGN. The conditions for receiving the aid are the average monthly income of a family member to be less than 400 BGN, with the necessary funds for monthly support of a family with two children of 560 BGN. of a family member. The other condition is that the child does not repeat the year. This is a more relaxed condition, because with the new Law on school and preschool education that you have adopted, repeating the class from first to fourth grade, is not foreseen. Another condition for receiving the aid is that there is no income criterion for children with permanent disabilities. I call on all MPs to support this bill because it is unlikely that the parents of the first graders have become rich in one year. Against the backdrop of deepening poverty and inequalities, it is more likely that they have become poorer. Children are at an age at which they grow quickly and at the very least the country can and should help them is to provide them with the necessary tools, clothing and shoes for the beginning of the school year, when they are in the second, third and fourth classes, and when the budget is available, why not higher. Excuse the expression, but enough with the numbers: where will the money be taken? In the case of a 2017 budget, more than 35 billion. BGN, the additional funds needed for this measure will be about 30 million. lv. "Nothing money against the backdrop of the prime minister's praises for overfilling the budget by two, three billion. Support our proposal to be remembered by the people for good, not just by stealing from sanitization, from orders, from NDK, planes and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u98	Mr. Gokov, I'll take your word for it! [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u99	Why would you take my word for it? [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u100	Because you're talking outside the subject and the ten minutes are up. Finish it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u101	The ten minutes are up, okay, but for the other thing, I don't know why. Or you, as Mr. Glauchev, will throw me out...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u102	Go on, time's running out!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u103	I urge people not to remember us badly. At least some good deed to do. It has been three months and we have accepted nothing as the people of this National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. I'm opening the debate. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u105	Madam President, honourable Members! The bill provides for the introduction of a new kind of one-off aid for students enrolled in second, third and fourth classes, similar to the one-off aid to be paid for enrolled students in the first grade according to art. 10a of the Family Aid Act for Children. One of the arguments of importers is that at this age children grow up quickly and poor families need support to provide clothing and shoes at the beginning of the school year. It is not clear from the reasons on which principle it is defined that it is children up to the fourth grade who need more support than other students. One-time support for students enrolled in the first grade is reimbursed if the child does not attend school or attend regular classes until the end of the first grade, unless this is impossible for health reasons. The proposed Bill does not make it clear whether for the children for whom the aid has been recovered by the end of the first grade, the same students will receive support when enrolling in the second, third and fourth classes, although the family has already been sanctioned. The main risk of the introduction of the new type of aid, apart from the lack of financial security under the budget programme "Helping families with children" of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2017, is the inequality of students up to 12th grade. Regardless of the age of the child, each family has the cost of preparing the educational process of each child, regardless of which class it enrolled and studied in. In addition, detention of children at school cannot be carried out only with financial support. According to data from the National Statistical Institute, the relative share of children from first to fourth grade compared to the total number of children in the initial course of study, the number of those who leave school is much smaller than those who leave schools from fifth to 12th grade. The main reason for leaving is going abroad, first of all. Secondly, there are family reasons, with only part of family reasons being lack of financial resources. The reasons are complex and therefore the approach must be complex to overcoming them. The reasons of the proposed Bill do not include detailed estimates of how many families will be entitled to the aid, indirectly reaching an additional number of 120 thousand children who would be covered by the aid. The proposal for funding through the current re-execution of the budget cannot guarantee the financing of the measure at a later period of the year or in the following years in the medium term and it is therefore necessary to make detailed estimates of the necessary resources in the medium term and at the expense of which costs this new approach is proposed to be financed. There are no specific sources of funding in the reasons, and it is assumed that the necessary resources can be provided, I quote from the budget re-execution and available reserves. This contradicts the Public Finance Act, where it is clearly written that in the implementation of the revenue for the current budget year it cannot serve as a source of additional expenditure, unless it is proposed by the Council of Ministers and voted by the National Assembly. According to the provisions of art. 19 of the Public Finance Act, which provides for an increase in costs and/or commitments for expenditure, after the annual laws on the state budget and the public procurement budget have been adopted, should not be foreseen to enter into force earlier than their amendment or their entry into force for the following financial year. In this respect, there is again a contradiction with the proposed measure with the Public Finance Act. Last but not least, this bill is from a series of populist bills submitted by BSP for consideration that are not covered by the budget. On the basis of all the listed and analyzed reasons from me until now the MPs from GERB will not give their support for the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u106	Thank you, dear Mrs. Gancheva. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Gancheva, I heard your arguments in the Commission, and then I answered you, and now I will answer you again, but listen to everyone. On what principle is the need for only the fourth grade? From the statistics I brought you here, everyone needs help, 50% of Bulgarians need help because they are at risk of poverty. However, as far as I can see, we can't go through the budget if the President of the Labour and Social Policy Committee speaks, he will tell you how much money it takes for all children. I don't think the budget can afford that. From the first to the fourth grade, the sense of education in man is formed, from the first to the fourth grade the primary education is formed, so we have chosen this range. God willing, if the budget allows for the next years to increase it to 8th grade and why not 11th grade, as you say.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u108	Why didn't you do that on Maslarova?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u109	We did a lot of things at Maslarova's!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u110	What is it, exactly?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u111	Aren't you going to make an observation?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u112	Please don't call from the gym! [[Heckling]] Go on, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u113	Mr. Daniel Kirilov to come and tell us what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u114	Go on, Mr. Gokov. Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u115	Financial security. Enough with the financial security! I'm telling you... [[Radio.]] Now you're rejecting the bill. It's funny, but...! We will propose it when we look at the state budget for 2018. Then we will propose the same measures and all who say that this is now one of the obstacles not to accept it, then I will ask you why we do not accept it when there is an opportunity to be sustainable for the year, and for next year and so on. Then I will see how many of you will support this proposal. Child inequality. You're talking about inequality?! The people who increased the minimum pension and leveled it with those who have a social contribution, with those who do not have one! And you're talking about child inequality! It's just not serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u116	Your time, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u117	I'm sorry it's only two minutes, because every single thing you've said can be refuted by this stands. Think of something to do for people who can't afford to send their kids to school.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Second line, come in, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u119	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Gancheva, you're talking about inequality. Yes, there is indeed inequality, but inequality exists at the moment, because we are only helping first graders now. We propose to reduce this inequality a little by including an additional group of students. You say it's populism. Populism would be if we made an offer for all the students in the 12th grade. We realize that the budget is limited and that is why we propose as a first step the second, third and fourth grade. That's not populism! The other is the intention of the government and opposition this time. Last week at a press conference of the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister said that the priority is knowledge and we will make a highway of knowledge, which is good and commendable. The Minister of Finance realizes that we should not mourn funds for education, because then they become much more expensive when people who have not attended school and are illiterate receive social benefits. I call on you to join forces and support the Prime Minister, but not with his actions, because he said we would drive the students with policemen and Berets. We offer not to be with policemen and berets, but to be by financial stimulus, because, believe me, there are many people who really can't afford to send their children to school. Let's at least help those who are most in need. It's for everyone's sake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u120	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Third line, Mrs. Zhekova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u121	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mrs. Gancheva! I will use your sentence in which you comment that complex measures are needed with regard to these policies. The Bulgarians are complex poor, dear Mrs. Gancheva! Poverty kills Bulgaria! If you have read, the last information that came out of the CNS last week is that 400,000 working Bulgarians are working poor. Does that satisfy us?! Last week, data came out that over 20,000 children dropped out of school. Does that satisfy us?! And if we are talking about inequality, let's go back to the debate on raising the minimum pension. Do you remember what your arguments were in the Chamber? That this is the first step in terms of the incomes of the population of Bulgaria. That is exactly what our proposal is and this is the first step to improve the condition of Bulgarian children. After a while in my speech you will hear startling statistics, which I will repeat, they were said, but they have to light up like a red light for each one of us - half of the Bulgarian children have no means to buy shoes when it snows when it gets wet to go to school!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u122	Thank you, dear Mrs Jekova. A hole, Mrs. Gancheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u123	Dear colleagues on the left! You are contradicting yourself in all the lines that were addressed to me. We cannot oppose children from first to fourth grade to those from fifth to twelfth grade. All children are equal. Their families need support when such funds are available. The biggest problem is that if this Law is passed, there will be an injustice in society, there will be an adjustment of some children and their families to others. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is the main reason why the Law should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u124	Thank you, dear Mrs. Gancheva. Mr. Veselinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u125	Madam President, honourable Members! This is another BSP bill, which has only one task to suggest that they, from the left, want rivers of goods to flow to Bulgarian citizens and the only obstacle to this happening is the evil government that does not give this thing. I have already stopped counting the billions that, since the beginning of the term, had to be spent on a proposal from the BSP and which had to lead to a general bloom of the state. I'm sure they don't count them either, because they don't intend to perform them at all. They're just making propaganda and using the National Assembly stands for propaganda for nothing else. They're the good guys. The rulers are villains who don't care about pensioners or students or disabled people for anyone. This, of course, is yet another political bill without a shred of solid thought in it, without logic, without analysis, without any desire to analyze even the consequences he would have had. They're offering us money on our heads again, no matter what we need, no requirements for results, just handing out money to be good. [[Replys and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]] With this handout, by the way, honourable colleagues on the left, you, with your traditional DPS collaborators, have led three decades to the gypsy of the state, to see their children as a source of funds and, in general, to many of the problems that are happening to us now, with this handing out of money to a mudbag. I remember the joke where a father told his son, "Son, son, third grade was the best five years of my life." Perhaps if the law didn't interfere with repeating, you would have given such a hero five times help only to be good. There's no answer, of course, why up to fourth and not 12th grade. It's not a proposal for free textbooks, which I could understand. There is no motive other than the common spell of poverty. Yes, we are poor, dear colleagues on the left, because you have ruled our country too long! [[(Radio.) Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.)]] You've brought her to bankruptcy twice, so we're poor! Because under your management, pensions became three dollars, remember?! This poverty is inherited from you and from the naivety of the Bulgarian people who believe in such promises. The point is important to me, and it is that after you fired Karl Marx as an ideologist, you took Grandpa Froz as your ideologist with the motto: Gifts will be given to everyone from the heart, gifts will be given, but not from BSP. The BSP will only have promises of gifts. Since you don't have thousands of midgets working in Siberia under Arctic conditions and making these gifts, you have to make promises. Your Santa's bag is full of lies. I suggest that this is the emblem of your alternative that you are currently demonstrating. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Veselinov, you're bad at math. For 28 years, however you count them, BSP has not managed more than nine in a variety of coalition formats and three independently. And otherwise, what I want to say to you personally is: God forbid any dean! [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u128	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Prodanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Veselinov, last week you satisfied the World Bank's interest by ratifying the 400 million loan agreement. Today you did this with the European Bank. Let's protect the interests... [[Reply from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov.]] No, because you're talking about handing out money to a dick or a kilo. Today let us satisfy the interest of Bulgarian children, which is 35 million. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u130	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Third line, Mr. Stoyanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u131	Dear colleagues, the common mark of all primitive societies is that they do not care for their poorest representatives. I'm sorry, but obviously our Bulgarian society is also the same. It's all about a level of consciousness. Low consciousness isn't a bad level, it's just a low level. As well as the high level of consciousness is not a good level, it is just a high level. We are currently demonstrating a non-low.. extremely low level of consciousness. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. Mr. Veselinov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u133	Madam President, honourable Members! The difference between the low level, the primitive level of populism and the high level is as follows: the high level of populism launches ideas that are close to the people and are realistic. The low level of populism launches ideas that no one intends to realize but relies on the short memory of the people who will forget after a while what they promised him and will be able to promise the same. That's what BSP does. With regard to Mr. Ermenkov, yes, you may have managed very briefly, but you left lasting scars in the history of Bulgaria. If you remember the Luca winter, if you remember Jean Videnova winter, if you remember that when in the country the wheel of the economy was spinning and there were surpluses we were pouring them into some empty projects such as the Tsankov Stone, which do not now generate income?! Here, this is the legacy of BSP and this is its merit for the misery in Bulgaria and for the income to be low and to say that we are champions of poverty and we kicked out two million people from the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. To speak, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria offer an attempt to solve the problem of early dropout of children from the education system. Personally, I qualify it as such an experience, because hardly anyone in this room can assume that these 250 leva, at this one-off, can solve all problems of poverty and the problems of access to education in Bulgaria. Clearly, that can't happen. Clearly, this is a partial measure. Clearly, this is an attempt to somehow try to solve this problem of access to education. If we believe that this experience and this proposal is untenable, what about the experience made by colleagues from GERB what is the increase in salaries from September 1st to the teachers? There is no money in the budget for this increase, as there is no money in the 2017 budget and for this increase? I am not saying that I am opposed to this increase, but, honourable Members, here is how we come to the issue of the integrated, the complex approach, which is unfortunately very difficult. And because we cannot implement this approach, so we resort to such partial, partial measures, one proposes one cohort, in this case second, third, fourth grade; another offers salaries to teachers; another will offer something else, but we somehow elude the complex, integrated approach so that we can subdue all policies to solve this problem by dropping children from the education system. Dear colleagues, you know that there is a National Strategy by 2020, which is related to the attempt to reduce the opportunities for dropping children from the education system. If we in this Strategy have identified measures that, in the long term, solve this problem, we need to be aware of one thing in the first place, is there such a universal mechanism to solve this problem? It is clear that such a universal mechanism is difficult to find because, honourable Members, under the Family Aid Act for Children, funding is entirely at the expense of the state budget. We need to be aware of a very important issue that over the years we cannot decide whether the service should be universal, which is very expensive, or should it be differentiated? Differentized to try to help target, to try to support a particular group of society. If we do not resolve this issue, we can very hardly solve the problem of reforming the social assistance system as a whole. Because there's the key, there's the way we can solve these problems. These 550 million or one third of all costs in the social security, support and care system, one third of all costs in the state budget are for the social security, support and care system. Is that a lot of money, or can you judge for yourself by the result? Because here's 550 million under the Children's Family Aid Act, another 200 million for integration supplements for disabled people. Nearly 900 million in this sector's policy are insufficient. The beneficiaries are dissatisfied, the politicians are dissatisfied, we are dissatisfied with the budget in these policies. Then what should we do? Then we must look for, ladies and gentlemen, a non-party consensus. Very often in this House, we have started to talk in this way, because assistance, reforming support requires unpopular measures, and unpopular measures, without a non-partisan consensus, can hardly be achieved. So we need to give our hands and look for a solution to these issues, because here you are going to reject this BSP project with or without reason. Do you think the problem will remain? Wouldn't children drop out of the education system for reasons of poverty next year, too? Will the problem of social exclusion be solved with this rejection? It is clear that it will not be resolved because, as our Prime Minister says: "On the highway of education and knowledge there should be no problems with access. There should be no problems in terms of equality, because if there are such problems, there are disasters that can then be difficult to solve. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, by rejecting this option, this opportunity offered by your colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria, let's think about how we will solve these problems, because rejecting this project does not mean eliminating the problem, the problem remains. What, though, must be done? Firstly, in my opinion, the system of support must be reformed with joint efforts of the entire National Assembly. Secondly, we need to step on a coordinating, coordinating, integration, as you would like to call it, a mechanism that covers all the policies of education, funding, social sphere and so on, so that we can assess the individual needs of each of us to offer funding. Because, otherwise, the financing of a fund-raiser, the funding, if you will, and the universal funding approach, will not solve the problem. No matter how much money is spent on this sphere, there will be no more. I'm telling you, all these years, every government has tried to increase this resource, and as a result, everyone is dissatisfied. Therefore, honourable Members, once and for all, we need to clear up the approach, or it will be universal, or it will be differentiated. My request is, by rejecting this bill, to think about further projects to resolve this issue. Because, again, rejecting the Project does not solve the access issue, does not solve the issue of early leaving the education system. And without education, poverty is passed down from generation to generation; without education, all those who drop out of the education system are potential crimicontingents - they are potential outsiders in the labour market. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u136	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Are there lines? Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ademov, we have heard that rejection does not solve the problem of dropping out. I would like to ask you: and does acceptance solve the problem of dropping out?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u138	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u139	This is correct to say from the microphone, because indeed the topic of debate is not a topic for a debate on social policy. Bulgaria needs such a debate. In principle, the social support system is extremely ineffective in terms of end objectives, socialization, education. And that I think the government made it quite clear in its last appearances as intention. The question is, we are looking at a concrete bill, and I would like you, as a longtime chairman of the Committee on Social Assistance, to answer: is this bill, if adopted, all these problems that you have listed solve?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u140	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Is there a second line to the statement? I don't see any wishes. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Sincerest! I never said that this experience and this proposal solves any problem. This is a partial experience, as experience is also the increase in teachers' salaries. Do you think this experience will solve some problem of education? No, he's not going to decide, unfortunately. That is why I have spoken in this way, declaring myself against the partial parcel solutions. It is necessary, as the representatives of the government said, those of the Council of Ministers, who said a complex approach is needed to solve this problem, because with only one or two measures will not happen. There is no way to solve the problems of education with such a measure, that is clear. But when there is no complex solution to the problems, when the integrated approach is very difficult to implement, such partial proposals, attempts for a partial solution appear.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u142	Thank you. Next statement Mrs. Anastasova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I will not speak as an economist or as a lawyer. I am speaking as a recent school director a person who has solved problems daily for children with problems, including children who experience the fact that they wear the same clothes every day among the others who change their clothes. And the fact that a school uniform was introduced in my school sort of solved that problem. But you understand that this does not solve the big problem we are talking about today. Enough statistics came out here from both Mr. Gokov and Mr. Ademov. There have been enough populist speeches. Even though you're accusing us from the left that we're talking populist. There were much more populist speeches here. During this time, as I listened carefully, I imagined how a Bulgarian family or a Bulgarian parent would perceive us at this point, whose child would be in the second, third or fourth grade. When we explain that, you see, you on the left only speak populist, and, you see, when you were managing what happened, and when we were ruling, what happened. I'm 28 years in school, and I've been listening to that ball transfer for 28 years. There are no solutions. The problem is getting more and more serious, colleagues. And I am glad that this problem is already being seen by everyone, because there have been many years in which the problem of dropping out children we talked about was just us at school. So what?! Well, you've already seen yourself from everyone. Do you know the story that when the car turns around, many roads! Especially in recent days we have witnessed an enhanced media presence of colleagues from GERB on the topic of "Mechanism for covering all children in school, fighting dropouts and so on." That's understandable after those over 21,000 kids dropped out of school just last year. With a little more than 600,000 students in Bulgaria, colleagues, this figure is really frightening. Why am I starting with this? Because our bill is a step.. right said Mr. Ademov, our bill is a step in the efforts of the state, as long as it has good will to solve this problem. Yeah, it's probably not a complex approach. Well, so many years of education has been waiting for a complex approach. Yeah, we're forced into a piece. However, there is no way to explain to this mother or father who cannot buy healthy shoes for his child that we are waiting for a complex approach. Taking into account the startling statistics on Bulgarians living below the poverty line, or the number of children, this statistic has also been exported, who have no working conditions, no conditions for learning, it becomes clear why our proposal is timely and correct. After all, it is about almost a third of Bulgarian children in school age. It's 250 leva. One-time help for families to prepare their children for school. It's about showing off at work, not words, the care of the state for our children. Yeah, that's about 30 million or 35. Is there anyone in this room who sincerely believes, fellow Members, that the state cannot find 30 million or this bill is rejected only because it is a bill submitted by the BSP? I'm sure with good faith that 30 million won't be a problem. And I would say, even if they were, I would ask you not as politicians, colleagues, I would ask you as parents: you have 1,000 leva. And you have to change your window, the other one stays for life, and the alternative is that you have to give those 1,000 levs. for the education of your children. What will you do as parents? I'm sure you'll stay with the old windows. I mean, shouldn't we think like that here, shouldn't we really think about the children of Bulgaria? Plus, it's about the low-income kids. We all state, including all the political parties represented in this House, that education is a priority. Priority doesn't just mean an increase in teachers' salaries. Priority means, above all, caring for every child and creating all the conditions so that he can go to school. Because equal access to education means not only buses to take children to the middle schools, it also means clothes and teaching aids, so that every child can go safely and happily, not crushed, on September 15th. Think about it, guys! And if you think our country has no way of providing that 30 million. BGN, vote against! But I assure you that I would never believe that you are sincere in this vote. If it's the opposite, it's scary! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. For the cue, Mr. Angelov. Here you are, you have the floor of the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u145	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! My line to you is this: You are a person who is familiar with the problems, and you know why these children are dropping out. They don't just drop out because they don't have the social assistance they're granted at the beginning of the year. These kids are dropping out for a number of other reasons. Far be it from me to think that the right approach is to give money to a dick about something. Rather, shouldn't we find ways to help these children materially and not certain money to be given to parents who know that there are quite irresponsible ones, I will not quote where they are, which parts of the money they can use for something else. You know that very well! And this approach that you propose... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I listened very carefully, without replicating, so please listen to my arguments, and if you think they are right, you can support them. The question is not to partially address these problems, but to really make sure that the problems of the parents are solved. We in the United Patriarchs are strongly opposed to the fact that in Bulgaria parents are divided into those who are supposed to have large incomes and those who have supposedly small incomes. And we Bulgarian MPs are constantly punishing Bulgarian families who work, who are educated, who have two children because they took 10 BGN. More salary than the others. This is insane! This discrimination against Bulgarian families who are responsible for the state should be stopped! You can't give a family 250 BGN and the other family who pays taxes, which works, which is educated, to deprive them. Enough of this shit! Enough discrimination against the Bulgarian families who are the future of this country! That's what you're suggesting. You propose that there should be a division between those that take 10 levs. more for example, pass the line for which to receive this help, and those who take 200 leva. less. This isn't right! The right option is for all Bulgarian families, no matter what income they have, to be supported if they have children. If they want you, of course! I'll tell you something else. You're a man who's familiar with this system. The problem with dropping out of school doesn't start. The problem with dropping out of children starts from the fact that certain children, from certain groups, I do not mean ethnically, because there are also Bulgarians, they are not yet being recorded in nurseries and kindergartens because of the fact that they have to pay fees. And if the Bulgarian state has to do something, it is what we offer the United Patriarchs: the nursery and kindergarten fees to drop out so that all children can have an equal start, whether it is a Bulgarian, a Gypsy, a Turk or something else, so that they can learn Bulgarian and socialize. There's no way a kid who doesn't go to nursery or kindergarten for seven years, gets into first grade and has an equal start. That's the problem! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If you want to solve the problem, work in that direction! Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u146	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Second line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Anastasova, In your speech you mentioned that we are not sincere to the Bulgarian families. And are you sincere after opposing families with children up to fourth grade and families with children above fourth grade? Isn't that opposition? What sincerity are you talking about? How do you explain to one family with 1000 BGN, which has two children in the fifth grade and the other in the sixth grade that you will not give them this one-time help of 250 BGN.? Isn't that demagogy and populism? [[Reply: "Bravo" by the National Representative Snezana Dukova. Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u148	Thank you. Is there a third line? For a statement? You have an opportunity for a doppelganger. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mrs. Naydenova, do you want to restore... [[Relations from the National Representative Snezana Angelova-Naidenova.]] Angelova? Excuse me. Do you want to restore justice completely and remove the one-time aid for the first grade then? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Then you will rest assured that justice is restored. Of course there is an element of injustice. Is there no element of injustice when we give child benefits to Bulgarian families depending on income? There is also injustice! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] By the way, this argument had to be given, I no longer remember where, in the Law, which you accepted for secondary school, you admitted funding to private schools with the argument that these parents are taxpayers too. And I said: aren't taxpayers all parents who have children in Bulgaria? Then let's give them all a fair share! Why do we give according to income? It is dangerous to talk about what is fair and what is not because we are in a clear state of deprivation. And we, in this state of poverty, are trying to try to keep the children until the fourth grade. I'll tell you professionally why. Because you claim that, and that's true, and by statistics, most kids drop out of junior high school. Why? These are kids who haven't gotten enough habits. Learning habits are acquired in an early stage! That is also the purpose of our proposal, one of the objectives of our proposal. On a rock! He's not on the pill again. You see, once again, we put a line of income in the family. Give me another way, so it's not on a rock! You know how complicated this is? Do you think the Bulgarian administration can handle this right now? I've bumped into him, too, and I want him out of the bag. But it's a very thin border, colleagues, and it's very difficult when we talk about children. So, since no such mechanism has been created so far, it must be difficult to make that happen. Then let's do it! If you, as you promise, will review your current opinion with next year's budget, then on what basis will you review it? Will we have this complex approach and complex mechanism for the two, three months that remain? So I'm telling you that yes, this is an attempt, it's only one step. As to whether we are sincere or not, we are sincere. You misunderstand me! I say: will you sincerely vote against? That's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. The word for speech is the People's Representative Spas Gurnevski. Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the topic is serious and I expected from Mr. Gokov, who looks like a socially oriented person, at least in his speeches that he will really talk about social theme and social problems. But he started politics from the third sentence, Mr. Ermenkov also added it: you see this bad GERB, which ruled for eight years, and suddenly the state is over. You've been asking for money all the time for three months. When you're in power, you don't give, but when you're in opposition... Do I have to tell you how many categories you wanted money for, salaries, teachers, doctors, police, army, hailstones, clouds and whatever comes to mind? And here today the debate has shifted. Today we get up and talk about the investigation. We're talking eight years of government, Mr. Ermenkov, but I'll tell you: we've been talking 63 years of BSP management since 1944. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] When you talk, why is Europe at two speeds? So, how do you want to be equal to European countries in direct speed when you're just 63 years driving backwards? You're driving in reverse, and you want to move forward. That's not gonna happen! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's exactly the point. May I remind you of the bankruptcy of 1989? The end of socialism? Should I remind you of the company's bankruptcy? I don't see Mr. Gechev here with Mr. Videnov? Shall I remind you of Mr. Stanishev's bankruptcy? [[Voices:? oooo!?? by BSP for Bulgaria??]] Shall I also remind you of another default of Mr. Oresharski? Well, half of these 27 years you've been running apparently you or with hidden coalition partners, and now you want to put everything in one side. The problem really has social problems. When I replicated the past, again social discussion about children with disabilities, Mr. Ademov, whom I very much respect, wanted to get up, he got up and said: social policy is complex, complex, complex, a complex of measures of all policies, which are conducted in the same government to have a strong social policy. Isn't that right, Mr. Ademov? It is. And the basis of social policy is not the solution to social problems, but the solution to economic problems, the solution to the growth of the Bulgarian economy because, if the Western countries are strong, with strong social policy, it is because they have a powerful economy that can set aside and solve people's social problems without problems. Did Prime Minister Borisov propose immediately after the elections: whatever it is, let's sit down and describe the problems and start solving them together? And offered a political opportunity, offering the highest position in the country for nothing else, but because of the upcoming European Presidency, for we have the opportunity in the coming years to strongly withdraw Bulgaria's integration processes in Europe and the growth of the economy. Only with a strong economy can we solve these problems. You have, of course, definitely refused because you do not want to betray your constituents. And now you want your constituents, our constituents and all the socially weak people to receive. You don't give, you want to receive! There's no way I'm gonna understand this policy. You are not a social, socialist or social democratic party. You're a populist party and you prove it every time. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Other European countries, Eastern European countries, have long solved these social problems because they do not have State Security in their country for 27 years, they do not have stolen money from this people with whom they have become capitalists. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] All the capitalists are with you if you want to name them, and you're talking about social policy! You can't be understood. Well, I'd like you to set aside the capital you stole and let's make a social policy. But you're not! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I will give you an example of what I said, in support of what I said, that a strong economy with the creation of investment conditions and by attracting investment from there labour, from there salaries will come opportunities for people to solve their social problems. Your party in Plovdiv four years ago offered to be the nursery free of charge, not to pay the people 50 BGN. a crib fee to make social policy. The management of GERB in Plovdiv in the last six years suggested otherwise. He proposed a strong economic policy, created conditions for investment. Plovdiv is now the most developing town on the Balkan Peninsula, not only in Bulgaria. You've created conditions, you've attracted investors. Young people in Plovdiv, IT specialists start with 3,000. lv. paychecks and seats are available. No unemployment! Young people receive, pay for both nurseries and education, there is culture, there is sport, there is democracy because Plovdiv is the capital of democracy. So don't turn the debate where it doesn't belong! Return to this parliament! This is where they sent us people to solve their problems. Until we solve the economic growth of Bulgaria, the other problems as a consequence, you cannot solve them with your misunderstood populism, and sometimes you get to be bold. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u152	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. - What's the line? Three declared. The first was Mrs. Lecheva's. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u153	Dear Mr. Gurnevski, personally I am surprised at your reasonings because I only have to tell you a few facts from the management of GERB in the last seven years, which we hear in the last few weeks each morning in the morning blocks: fifty thousand leave the country every year; every year 20 thousand children drop out of the education system; every year 6 thousand children drop out of the initial course of training this is only for the seven out of eight years of GERB management in the last years. It's nice to go back so much, but you were also a member of the SDS that organization and that political power that privatized Bulgaria. And when you talk about Bulgaria's economic situation at the moment, I do not see how much foreign investment in Bulgaria will have increased? Why aren't there foreign investors? Because you say that thanks to the economic situation, we will improve the social status of the Bulgarians. While waiting for the results of your government, whole cities like Plovdiv will disappear from Bulgaria, dear Mr. Gurnevski. It is true that this measure, which we propose, is not an integrated approach, but while we wait for the integrated approach, whole cities will remain illiterate in Bulgaria. And just to say a few words about the philosophy of our proposal. It is only a step and an opportunity for every child to feel equal, equal to his peers. Because when you are not able to buy the most valuable textbooks, tools, shoes, clothes to allow the child to feel equal, it is excluded from the learning process. And that's one of the main reasons why children drop out of the education system.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Second line, Mrs. Dukova. Please, because there are more requests on the left, specify who will make the third line. Mrs. Zhekova, maybe. Here you are, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think, colleagues on the left, that none of you, Mr. Gurnevsky, rather to you, because it is a line, is not surprised that the BSP is leading a strange policy in this Parliament. The policy is such that in each proposed bill, it is not complete, it is ZID, and in this ZID changes are only in funding. The policy in the forty-fourth parliament is to bring down the economic balance and the country's budget, to drain for money and nothing, because in every bill they want only money, and only money! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] These are the changes, and I want to say it from the stands. Mr. Gurnevsky, why did you forget to say that it's very unprofessional to say only thirty million? What's 30 million for BSP, guys? But 30 million is nothing! Only ten of their millionaires to donate 3 million, things are solved, and I'm sure they will. Do not confuse policies in individual sectoral policies! Do not speak as directors or administrators, because your position and trend is not fair! What do you mean more money until fourth grade? And what does it mean to be tied to the money given to private schools? Colleagues, you could only, Mr. Gurnevsky, tell them that they should thank us, because we are implementing their 2006 national programme, which they have been doing since 2009. Yeah, well, unfortunately, they didn't do it! And we pawned it. And if you think, Mr. Gurnevsky, that education and that it will change, and we, the nation, will build not to be illiterate just by pouring money, or with social funds, with which to expire without knowing where, this is BSP policy, Mr. Gurnevsky. That's not our policy! We will do as by law as we have decided in our law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u156	The weather, Mrs. Dukova!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u157	We'll pour money into programs, we'll pour money into qualifications, we'll pour money into economics and realization. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u158	That was the second line. Mrs. Zhekova for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Gurnevsky, I will not go down to the level of your opposition, which is constantly in this Chamber, nor will I be political in the way that you have done it. Allow me to read the data of the National Statistical Institute from last year on the policies that your government currently manages, compared to 2015 and 2016. In 2016, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 41.4 percent of children with material deprivation live at risk of poverty, according to the National Statistical Institute. Last year 31.9 percent of children up to 17 years of age in Bulgaria were at risk of poverty, or 6.5% more compared to 2015. Let's not turn back time, but look at our own house compared to this year and last year, compared to the policies we are currently conducting in relation to children. In 2016, the relative share of children with material deprivation was 51.4 per cent, and for 6 per cent of children, no need could be satisfied for financial reasons. The list of indicators that the children are deprived of, the National Statistical Institute refers to one meal involving meat, chicken, fish at least once a day, fresh fruit and vegetables
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u160	Learn to speak, not read.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u161	Dear Mrs. Dukova, I am currently reading the data of the National Statistical Institute and I do not think that this data should be memorized.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u162	Mrs. Dukova, don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u163	Since we are talking about expertise every time, we are talking about documents of official documents of the state, Mrs. Dukova! And if we have to get back to the topic and the discussion that we are discussing right now, our bill is really not fair, but if we have to talk about justice, go back to the topic of pensions and see how just you were.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You have an opportunity for a doppelganger. People's representative Spas Gurnevsky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ms. Lecheva, if you had heard what I said, you would understand that the children will not leave in Terminal 2 when Bulgaria has a European economic growth. For the SDS. I was a member of the SDS, and when 2001 I said, and in a much larger room, in the face of the SDS leadership, that it became a trading company that would disappear within five years, I was excluded from the SDS. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mrs. Dukova, is it a lot or a little 30 million? For this part of the room are many and each lev is very important. It's not like that for this part. This is where I asked Mrs. Nino the question. When he was Deputy Minister of Economy, the theft of the century took place in Plovdiv through the Plovdiv Fair. 150 million Plovdiv properties were stolen and the entire fair was privatized for half a billion more. For them, 30 million is nothing. If their oligarchs return a quarter of the loot, there will be quadruple allowances for all students, for all pensioners, and a strong social policy. [[Applause from GERB.]] Mrs. Zhekova, you have good speaking qualities, you will become a parliamentarians... serious, study and memorize, sometimes useful. You've been trying to say that we're almost using hate and confrontation here, and you've been repeating that for the third month now. Professor Stanilov told you in a statement that behind the term "Hate Language" you want to hide the language of truth. I will tell you: we are not here talking with hate speech, but you have been speaking with hatred in your tongue for the third month, because you cannot swallow the slap that the Bulgarian people slapped you in the elections. [[Applause from GERB. Revelations: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u166	Thank you. First, in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me remind you that we are still condemning the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children to the first vote. The speaker mentioned everything about thieves, populists, maybe just the ozone hole and our guilt for it missed. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Please, Mr. President, stop or at least warn the speakers to return to the subject and not to make free writings in a badly painted picture. Because when MPs from the BSP speak or defend a certain bill, some other colleagues have this nasty dog syndrome of Pavlov, they come here and start talking. Please make a remark or take away their floor, because in Mr. Gurnevsky's entire statement, there was almost nothing about this bill that we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u168	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I'll consider that, of course. It's a personal explanation. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Gurnevsky brought it up. It's a serious subject, Mr. Gurnevsky. You accused me of speaking politically. Perhaps for ten minutes a speech was only about a minute political. Unlike yours, in which all the time there were only political arguments, not one in substance, and not one word about the bill, Mr. Gurnevsky. When you start blaming 63 years, who's been in charge? I'll tell you what's going on. Do I need to remind you who ruined agriculture? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Who ruined the weapons industry?! [[Noise and lines from GERB. Revelations: "You! "]] Who ruined the pension system?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u170	Mr. Gyokov...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u171	Who ruined the health system?! [[Noise and lines from GERB. Revelations: "You! "]] Who sold BGA and Kremikovtsi for a lev?! [[Voices from GERB: "BSP!". Loud noise and lines.]] Who did the idiotic mass privatization? [[Loud noise.]] Should I move on? Or did you, after you left the SDS and emancipated from them, no longer one of them? Now you may soon have to leave GERB as well, because they are going the same way. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] When you talk about politics, I want to tell you that you are far from social issues and have no social sensitivity. Therefore, do not appreciate my speech as political, but look at yourself. When you look at the straw in the eyes of others, see the beam in your own eyes. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Revelations: "Eeeee! "]] So Mr. Gurnevsky, so much for you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u172	Thank you. For a personal explanation, the public representative Snezana Dukova. Here you are, Mrs. Dukova. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u173	No, I didn't. I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u174	She had a line. [[Loud noise and lines.]] It was a line, please. [[Loud noise and lines.]] She didn't make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u175	I didn't make a statement, guys.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u176	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u177	Read the rules! How many times will I call you, colleagues? You're here on nine, ten terms. [[(Noise and lines. (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u178	On the subject. Mrs. Dukova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u179	I'm very short on Mrs. Zhekova, as she likes to mention... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's a personal explanation. She used my name. [[Heckling]] Not the doppelganger, not the cue, the personal explanation. What she read from the stands, I want to tell her two things. One is that dropout students because I do not read like you written things, nor do I draw written statistics from 2004 to 2008 are the most. They amounted to 29 thousand, and as of 2009 they started to decrease to 19, 18, 20. [[Loud noise. A line from the MP Nadia Klisurska-Zekova.]] Mrs. Zhekova, don't show me any documents that have been submitted to you. Read and remember! Secondly, your former President, these words apply to you, from the tribune, he said: "When you have no arguments, reduce the volume. [[(Laughter) Loud noise.)]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. Mr. Ermenkov, a personal explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u181	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm taking a personal explanation procedure because Mr. Gurnevsky mentioned me twice in his speech and both times somewhat indifferent to my modest participation in today's debate. The eight years I've been talking about. First of all, I didn't talk about eight, and I talked about nine years and not about managing GERB, but obviously you've heard it like a grumpy bad guy running away. So you assumed that I was talking about you and that almost what I did here was a shift of the problem from the being of our debates today. Mr. Gurnevsky, I didn't speak politically at all. Here I only specified pure mathematics, and I told Mr. Iskren Veselinov that he did not know her. But I was convinced that you don't know her either, because somehow the number 63, except it's 7 times 9, doesn't tell me anything else, and there's no way you can bring it as a government of the Bulgarian Socialist Party until now, as well as you think it, whatever you're doing. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And the last thing I want to say to you is that you tried to blame me as a member of the Bulgarian Communist Party from that time that we had collapsed Bulgaria. Mr. Gurnevski, look at the statistics of Bulgaria what was 1986, 1987, 1988. Compare it to today. To be on the subject: tell me how many children were in poverty then, how many today? And tell me, because you are very economists, then Bulgaria, 1989, had 11 billion external debt against which all assets of [[speaking indistinctly]] The state, and they weren't looted by you and those like you. Now we have 18 billion debt and zero against them. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u182	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. The word for speech has the popular representative Pavel Shopov. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I've already given my word. To speak, Paul Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u183	Yes, dear Mr. Chairman, personal explanations in the manner of conduct, procedures, noise in the room, storms, passions. I'll try to cool you down a little bit. And I'll talk to the government. I look at them and I say to them: Gentlemen in charge, don't you think that the BSP has achieved its goal fully today?! Think about it: I've achieved it! Yeah, some of them found out what I meant. I'm addressing the politicalists. There are political analysts here, Mr. Bikov. I address those who are from the management of GERB. Mr. Velchev, don't look at your phone, I want to address you, you are an old parliamentarians, extremely experienced. Mr. Delyan Dobrev, the Vice-President of the National Assembly... I'm not going to continue here. Well, get together, explain a little bit to young colleagues not to get so cheap and so simple on tricks. Mrs. Dukova and she does not understand, and she participates in this whole scheme. And here, if a BSP colleague asks the question: Who? Who's mass privatization? Who ruined the Bulgarian economy? Yes, he is absolutely right. Only here we are already entering space for Bulgaria topics and almost generally to the international situation. I, if I had gone into the tone, would have said that this was the model that was imposed by the masters, i.e. by the colonists who were all in charge of us, and it would have been even more frightening. And that was the simple one... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm not talking to you. [[(Laughter) Noise and lines.)]] I'm talking to the government now. That was the intimate thought from the beginning of the BSP. The intimate thought was to bring in this bill. They knew very well that it wouldn't come in and make a noise, become an agitation, a fligging flame, a noise here. And that was great. Tonight on all the news that the wonderful bill was rejected, which would solve all the problems of the Bulgarian children who are unhappy, who are poor who suffer, who have no shoes and hardly have anything to go to school with, have no tools, no bags, nothing to write with. Oh, shit! That's a hell of a job! And all of this comes down to who? This is the political and political logic of the government. Therefore, I appeal to the leadership of the parliamentary groups that govern to master their members. [[Laughter]] Because here, on the other side, everything is absolutely directed. Here are the main players who take over the topic, who report the points of support, which we have talked about many times, and who have done today so that they can start and end on all news tonight with: how the government again has eaten the bread of the Bulgarian children. [[Loud noise and lines. Revelations: Bravo! Applause from OP.]] And what did you accomplish? [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] . Yes, you are. That's your plan. You've actually already moved on to an armed guerrilla war, to active action. We saw what happened to the crane. Things must be sought out, of course, by Positano. That's where battle groups, subversive actions begin, but don't go into the tone of some speakers here. [[(Radio.) Noise.)]] I've got another ghost why they've already moved on to an armed fight from BSP. He's mine, personal, and I felt it. Anyway, don't let it get any more fun. From this point of view, some of the rulers, of course, manifest themselves as speakers, condemn, speak. I'm going back to a closer and more distant past. We can all do it, we can all give examples, talk indictment against communism, against the past, against, against, against... Talking at all. Yeah, they've scratched their speech sense, they're happy. They can do it, they can do it, they can do it, but they can do nothing for the government! That's why I end up with the words: behave at the height of the rulers and know that the opposition has its role, it has its scheme. Her scheme is to tear down power. It is evident that this opposition is devastating, it is not constructive opposition. That opposition didn't give 100 days. Every day it rains requests for resignations. They know they won't get through, but men know how the drill drill works that drills holes. [[(Laughter) Loud noise.)]] And that's a lot of small strokes every second. That's the example I've always set. Soon we will have a motion for a vote of no confidence in the government. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm telling you the most responsible thing to do. Wait for him, get ready for this. There was at one of GERB's national meetings a tactic and it was very wise. It was managed, behaved at the level of those who cared as they should, politologically well-paid, well prepared and kept quiet. A vote and that's it. Let's vote and get this over with! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u184	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines to Mr. Shopov's statement? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. A statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u185	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House! All that we have heard so far in the second part of the debate, I think it is a bad message to all Bulgarian families who care about education in Bulgaria who want to send their children to school, who will send their children to school, even with old shoes or with an incomplete pen. We shouldn't be so low on such an important and serious problem. None of us thought about what the effects of such assistance would be on these families. It was said that over 40% live below the poverty line. We must not leave these children disappointed and these families wondering how and what to do to send their children to school. Yes, the Bulgarian can and will send the children not only from first to fourth grade, but also to the 12th grade. Kids drop out of school. According to the statistics made by the analysis and the PIZA data, two thirds of the children are dropped for social reasons. That's because we didn't keep the small schools and don't want to send them to the big ones, that's because they're not the same schools and there's no equal access to quality education. Let's make sure we motivate more people, parents, send their kids to school. We want an economy, you're right. A strong economy will give us an opportunity for much more social approaches, complex methods, but in order for there to be an economy, there must be workers to have workers, there must be literate people. There's no way that's gonna happen without the kids being educated. Why first to fourth grade? We all know that. That's when the basic educational habits are created. Yes, of course, we will motivate the preschool age of five and six-year-olds. They also fall within this range. Finally, why should we not vote against these proposals? And you say what the principle of distribution will be. As it is for the first grade, so it will be for the second, third and fourth grade. What will be the mechanism for handing out funds? We've been doing it for the first grade for four years now we don't know how it's gonna be for the second, third and fourth grade. There was no such regulation, only for the first grade there was such a regulation. Can a regulation stop the development of our children from helping these social families? There was no control mechanism, it wasn't true. We can create a control mechanism with only one decree or one regulation. Some regulations cannot be an obstacle, to motivate parents to send children to school worthy and, of course, BSP will achieve its goal when you support our bill. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Replices.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Klisarova. Any lines to the statement? I can't see. Anyone else willing to make a statement on the bill? There are no statements, and I do not see any requests from the House. We stop the discussion and move on to a vote on the Bill. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 754-01-28, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 22 June 2017. Vote 181 MPs: 84, against 25, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. Honourable Members of Parliament, the next item on the agenda is the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Supreme High Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe and the Supreme Union Commander-in-Chief on the Transformation of Supplement to the Paris Protocol. There are detailed reports on the bill, which is why in view of the remaining time, I find it appropriate to continue the work on the point tomorrow. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourning today's meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-12.u187	Next meeting tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
