ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Communication: On 15 June 2017, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2016/849 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 15 June 2017 to 15 June 2017 in respect of the implementation of the mandate of the Union for the period from 15 June 2017 to 15 June 2017 in respect of the implementation of the mandate of the Union for the period from 15 June 2017 in respect of the implementation of the mandate of the Union for the period from 15 June 2017 to 15 June 2017 in respect of the implementation of the mandate of the Union for the period from 15 The bill was withdrawn by its importers on the same day at 17.01. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised, through the territorial sea, non-military residence in the domestic waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and a visit to the port of Varna, of two teaching boats of the Ukrainian naval forces in the period 23 June to 26 June 2017 including. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the relevant competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 15 June 2017, with the exception of: No 703-09-16, and granted to the Defence Committee. On 15 June 2017, the National Assembly received a Report on the state of administration in 2016, adopted by Decision No 321 of the Council of Ministers of 2017. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. New requests for the period from 9 June 2017 to 15 June 2017 from: - National Representative Stefan Burgeev to Valentin Radev, Minister of Interior, on the policy of the Ministry of Interior for prevention and countering domestic and conventional crime in Pleven district. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 23 June 2017. Written answers for service. Written response from: - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov to a question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Rumen Georgiev; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Daniel Yordanov. Before we move on to parliamentary control, please come in for a statement. You have the floor, Mr. Bikov, on behalf of the political party GERB parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 8 June pictures of the former Interior Minister in the caretaker government of Ognian Gerdjikov and current adviser to President Rumen Radev, Plamen Uzunov were distributed in the Bulgarian public space. In the photos Uzunov is dressed in a Nazi uniform, disguised as Hitler and raised his hand for Nazi greetings. A few days later Plamen Uzunov confirmed the authenticity of the photos and explained that they were taken in 2003 during a New Year's celebration. Three weeks earlier, pictures of the newly appointed Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Pavel Tenev appeared in all electronic and printed editions. Tenev was photographed by wax figures of Nazi soldiers, giving them Nazi greetings. After the promotion of the photos, the Deputy Minister apologized and explained that they were taken in 2008 at the Museum "Greek" in Paris while on a trip to the French capital. He also showed other photos of his trip, where he joked about the wax figures of Elvis Presley and other famous historical figures. After the publication of the photos of Tenev, the parliamentary group of BSP requested his resignation, arguing that with topics such as national socialism and fascism no jokes can be made. In a statement by the BSP parliamentary group Mrs. Cornelia Nino said: "A deputy minister in the government with a Hitlerist greeting and a deputy prime minister with jokes from Buchenwald. Where have you brought European Bulgaria?! Are you willing to ignore the fundamental European and Bulgarian values because of the power and money? In Facebook again Mrs. Nino wrote: "Scandalno is the inaction of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, who pretends that there is no problem. BSP wonders why for the third day the Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Pavel Tenev continues to stand in his place instead of being fired. We believe that a person who has had the cynicism and the insolence to photograph himself making a Hitler greeting has no place in the management of Bulgaria. On the occasion of the scandal, President Rumen Radev was uncompromising. He said any joke about the Nazi regime is unacceptable. The MEPs from BSP and DPS committed to the case The Party of European Socialists, the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe and the European People's Party. On the third day after the promulgation of the photos with Nazi greeting Pavel Tenev announced that he resigned and apologized once again for the inappropriate joke of 2008. Ladies and gentlemen! I recall the case with the pictures of Pavel Tenev because he created a standard regarding jokes with national socialist ideology. This standard requires people who have joked about Nazi greetings, not to take political positions or to withdraw from them as soon as possible. Against the background of BSP political declarations regarding the photos of Tenev, the quiet talk about the photos of the Presidential Councillor Plamen Uzunov is a very significant fact. BSP did not react sharply and immediately to these photos, although it could have done so last Friday, when Plamen Uzunov admitted that the photos were authentic. There was also a reaction by the Party of European Socialists, whose President Gianni Pittella in connection with the scandal Plamen Uzunov said: "The Nazi symbols are terrifying and have no place in society! We oppose hate policy and extreme right-wing policy. The reaction of the BSP came on the fourth day after the scandal broke out, when not on its own initiative, but in response to a journalist's question Cornelia Nino said: President Rumen Radev himself makes the decisions about the composition of his team, but the demonstrations of Hitlerist symbols are unacceptable. We don't mind the president, but such Hitler symbols and signs are unacceptable. Our political position as a party remains. It's not changed by what you've heard about such Hitler symbols for us are unacceptable. Our position is principled. As can be seen from the statement of the leader of the BSP, there is no mention of the word "of resignation" in respect of Uzunov, although the party's position has been reaffirmed several weeks ago. It is not understood whether BSP is urging Rumen Radev to fire his advisor. A day after Mrs. Ninova's statement, Plamen Uzunov himself announced that he would not resign, to which BSP continues to react with silence. President Rumen Radev reacted one week after the publication of the photos of his advisor, saying: It's a double standard. We're flirting with the Nazi ideology, and you're caricarating it, even though both Uzunov and the former Deputy Minister of MRB are doing the same thing. Ladies and gentlemen, after the case of Plamen Uzunov and BSP and President Radev, we already have a double standard. According to this double standard to those close to BSP and the President will show understanding if they joke about Hitlerian symbols and no compromises will be made for everyone else. This is about returning the maxim from socialism, according to which we are all equal, but some are more equal, especially those who are friends of the President. If we want the uniform standard with regard to the National Socialist Ideology to remain in force, it is you from BSP and President Radev, who was nominated by you, who should clearly and aloud ask for the resignation of Plamen Uzunov, as you did in the case of Pavel Tenev. Otherwise, it will turn out that your anti-fascism was a fake and used campaign for the sole purpose of attacking the ruling majority. If you do not call on Rumen Radev today to fire Plamen Uzunov from the presidential administration, you will show that your sharp reaction against Pavel Tenev was not the product of an authentic civil reflex, but is an active event with which you pursued your close party goals. For us, the campaign use of national socialism is just as unacceptable as the sympathy of this ideology. The use of the victims of this primitive and history-disputed ideology for campanian purposes is a mockery of their memory. Here it is not about the resignation and personality of the Presidential Councillor Plamen Uzunov, but about the principle of being able to see the beam in your own eye before pointing the straw in the eye of the other. If the President and BSP do not take a clear position on this issue and do not immediately request the removal of Plamen Uzunov, it will mean that the resignation of Pavel Tenev was meaningless. From now on, any such case will be minimized and ignored. Once again, we urge you to support us in our request for the removal of Plamen Uzunov from the presidential institution, and I hope that Mr. President knows that he is currently laying the foundations for a new political standard with regard to national socialism. And you, as a party with an anti-fascist past, have the greatest benefit that this case does not remain unresolved and silent Mr. Uzunov to remain in his post. I repeat, on the next such case, there will be no resignation, and the argument for this will be your silence. I also call on my fellow Members from the DPS, who are members of the Liberal Alliance to react, because we have not heard their declaration on this issue. If anti-Fashism and anti-Nazi urge in your party is only when it comes to government, then we can't trust you with anything else. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. [[The National Representative Plamen Hristov wants the floor.]] You have an affidavit, too? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm finally suggesting that everyone who has photos at home take a general look at them, show them to the media and stop doing shit. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u5	That was your declaration?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u6	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u7	As they say, no words. In an hour, somewhere, I'm gonna give you a break so everyone can get pictures. [[Applause.]] Of course, it's a joke. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. The first question is to Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister, who will answer a question from MP Miglena Alexandrova on the rate of absorption of EU funds for the period 2014 - 2020. You have the floor, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the EU funds are an important structural defining element in the economy of each country, so it is important that they are quickly and evenly absorbed in all programmes. The new programming period 2014 " 2020" has been taken advantage of and at the beginning of the period there was a slight delay in the absorption of funds. In this regard, I ask you to answer me today: what is the percentage of EU funds used, what money from EU funds have actually entered the economy, is there a delay in some programmes and how will it be caught up?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Alexandrova! I will only allow myself to correct you as to the sentence in your question that the programming period is over-the-counter. That's not true, it goes on until 2023. I certainly agree with your finding that the rate of use of European money should be fast, accelerated, even, that they are extremely important to the Bulgarian economy without being its foundation. They may have the role of an accelerator, may have the role of the main instrument that funds the modernization of the country, but they are not a foundation of the Bulgarian economy, since the average share of gross domestic product rarely exceeds 5%. But let's go to the data. The agreed funds by the end of last week reached 37.5% of the budget of the programmes co-financed by the ESI Funds and the really paid funds are over 10%. If we look at only the programmes from the structures and the Cohesion Fund, the agreed is 42.6% of the budget of the programmes and the actually paid funds are 9.96 percent. Specially for the Rural Development Programme, the agreed is 23.6 and paid 11.9%. Currently, over 190 procedures worth more than 12 billion have been announced. lv. The contracts concluded with the beneficiaries are 3500 worth 8 billion. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. lv. Regarding the question of how much of this money has entered the Bulgarian economy, the simple answer is: all. As far as the place of implementation of the projects is the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, all money has entered the Bulgarian economy. Much more complicated is the question of what is the effect of this money on the economy, and it is subject to complex economic analysis. I can give you a few more concrete examples of programs that directly invest in business and in the workforce. It is about the Operational Programmes "Innovation and Competitiveness" and "Human Resources Development." Under the first programme, the agreed funds reached almost 45% of the budget and the actually paid almost 16%. 19 procedures worth BGN 1.3 billion have been announced and 110 contracts with beneficiaries worth 1.4 billion have been concluded. lv. With regard to the Human Resources Development Programme, the agreed funds are more than 51% of the Programme's budget and the actually paid funds are 15.4%. 41 procedures worth 1.3 billion have been announced. lv. by concluding nearly 1400 contracts with beneficiaries of over 1 billion. lv. Overall, at this stage of the implementation of the programmes is characterized by a good negotiating rate. We are talking about a share of almost half the budget and the big task is the rate of payment to pursue the percentage of the agreed funds. There is plenty of time for this, but we must not forget that the implementation of projects in this programming period is moving in a completely different environment. Firstly, we have a much greater stake because I do not know how cohesion policy will continue after 2020 and, secondly, which is even more important than the first: here the implementation of all projects and programmes is closely linked to reforms in each of the sectors.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. That answer pleases me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. The need for a doppelganger is off. Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to questions to the Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva. The first question is from the MP Miglena Alexandrova about the early release of prisoners for good behavior. You have the floor, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we are witnessing a sharp reaction in the society of intent to free the court from prison for good behavior members of a criminal group known by the name of the Insolences. The proposal that two members of a group be released is to the prison administration. The reason for their release is that during the prison period in question they have been re-educated, they have settled their sentences with hard work and good conduct. I just remind you that the criminal group in question was involved in a series of kidnappings for bribes, cutting ears and fingers and quite rightly caused a sharp public reaction. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: at this point, how many more requests for early release from prisoners are there; for what crimes are the applicants in prison; are there applications from prisoners convicted in cases of high public interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u16	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Alexandrova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Your question is undoubtedly related to the case that has come to light, as you rightly put it, and has received a publicly reprehensible sign in relation to the ruling of the first instance in respect of two early release cases. I am in a hurry to say that at this time, as a result of a protest by the Prosecutor's Office, an early release of these two individuals who are truly empathetic and have received punishment for being deprived of liberty because of their participation in the organized criminal group known as the Insolences. However, I could not agree that the reason for defining the definitions of the court at the first level is only good behavior, as you have formulated the question, because the Institute for early release of prisoners is known in the Bulgarian penal theory and practice long before the amendments to the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention. What do I mean? The conditions under Law to initiate an early exemption procedure are, above all, the existence of a certain period of time referred to in art. 80 of the Penal Code, with which the person deprived of liberty has effectively endured his punishment in the designated places. Indeed, amendments to the Punishment Act provided for an opportunity for the first time, the Law has been in force since 7 February this year, not only on a proposal from the administration, as it has been so far, but also personally by the person convicted, through the head of the prison concerned, to ask the court directly. In this sense, I do not agree with your claim that the procedure has started on a proposal from the prisons where they are being punished, and this is an opportunity for individuals to request directly from the court, of course, through the prison administration. We have noted, we have taken appropriate measures, as one of the files is true that there is a positive response and an opinion from the prison administration. We will also identify specific legislative measures, I hope you will approve them. As far as specific questions are concerned: in the future, how many more requests are there for early release.. 689. Thus said, the number sounds serious, but I would like to point out to you that, for the same period last year, when the previous regime was in operation, the applications are 873, in the Commission 701, the other ones are not respected. You ask a question: what crimes are petitioners in prison for? Crimes all over the scale of crimes under the Penal Code. Perhaps in the minutes of the duplicate, I can finish my answer even more specifically, as I see that I have delayed the scheduled time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. You have the floor, Mrs. Alexandrova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, you yourself said that, however, when the prisoner decided to apply for parole, this was approved by the prison management, so it was still the prison administration. Personally, I very much hope that criminals like the insolent ones will not be released, because we will blow up the public. Yes, surely there are some minor crimes, perhaps the people for them have been re-educated in prison, perhaps one of them should be released, but not criminals such as the insolent ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Dear Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u20	Indeed, the work of the representatives of the prison administration is extremely responsible. As I had the opportunity to state, it is not enough only to monitor whether the letter of the Law has been complied with, but must first of all be taken into account as to whether the purpose of the imposed punishment has been achieved, whether the spirit of the Law has been respected, whether it can be done, on the basis of objective criteria, a prerequisite for how the person would socialise outside the place for serving punishment. I agree with you that this is a very responsible and precise job. In this sense, I have the ambition to improve and even more responsible to approach giving opinions. As far as your last question is concerned: whether there are currently 13 requests that I have shared with you that have been submitted to those who are actually serving their punishment for serious, high public interest and serious crimes in general, they are reduced to 13 which are being followed, but, again, I say, in order to start this procedure in order to start giving opinions by representatives of the administration, in general, the court, in order to start its activity, must have objective prerequisites in the Law, and this is a certain period of time in the various hypotheses, the punishment must already be served. I have the ambition to observe not only the letter, but also the spirit of the Law, so that we do not witness such circumstances that have stirred public opinion. Thank you for that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u21	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. There is another question for Minister Tsacheva. He is once again from the MP Miglena Alexandrova on specific actions of Bulgaria for structuring and starting work of the European Prosecutor's Office. You have the floor, Mrs. Alexandrova, for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Bulgaria is one of the countries that reached political agreement on the establishment of the European Prosecutor's Office. Upon obtaining the consent of the European Parliament, the new body will work and European prosecutors will have the power to conduct investigations concerning the European Union's budget - fraud by European Union funds, cross-border VAT fraud, corruption. In this regard, I ask you to answer me what will be the first actions and activities that the Ministry of Justice will undertake to begin the structuring and work of the new European body? What is its administrative capacity supposed to be, how will it cooperate with OLAF and when is it expected to work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to say with satisfaction that the Republic of Bulgaria in the four-year period from this time back in time in the various steps and stages of discussion and adoption of the Council of the European Union Regulation, which, as you rightly said, is expected to be approved in October and the European Parliament, the Republic of Bulgaria has a very clear and clear position in support of the need to create such an institution to the other European institutions. Why? Because the citizens of the European Union need this in cases where it is proven that European funds are not being spent in the intended way. When they are abused, it is necessary to effectively prosecute fraud and other crimes affecting the financial interests and stability of the European Union. At the last Justice Council that took place last Thursday and Friday in Luxembourg, the justice ministers supported the establishment of this regulation, we adopted the regulation. I would like to point out here that we are talking about two groups of countries. We are participating in the group of initiators of the so-called enhanced presence, enhanced cooperation, and the rest of the group of countries that are happily getting smaller and I hope by October, when the regulation by the European Parliament will be approved, that they all have joined enhanced cooperation. In fact, the only difference is the way this funding will be carried out. In connection with the upcoming Presidency of Bulgaria of the Council of the European Union, this is one of the topics that is extremely relevant and I thank you for this issue, because it is very timely and it is useful for the MPs to know what is being done by the executive on it. It will be a topic of our Presidency, we have planned a conference, somewhere in March will be held, because after the final adoption of the regulation and the European Parliament begins the actual work of structuring the prosecution, the European Prosecutor's Office, the rules of procedure, the selection of European prosecutors and everything that will make possible 2020. These are the deadlines for the regulation, for this institution to work, which, again, I say, is extremely in the interest of all citizens of the Member States that we are in the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva, for your answer. I'm satisfied with that answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. She's missing the need for a doppelganger. Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva, for participating in today's parliamentary control. When you're here, it's always different. [[Applause from GERB.]] Let's move on to the next question. He is to Temenuzhka Petkova " Minister of Energy," who will answer a question from the National Representative Tasko Ermenkov and the People's Representative Ivan Kirov Genov regarding the current policy of the Ministry of Energy for guaranteeing the electricity security of Bulgaria. Here you are, dear Mr. Ermenkov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u28	Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Minister! My question is provoked by the recent decisions of the European Commission regarding the abrupt limitation of greenhouse gases issued by energy. You are aware that these restrictions in practice mean closing of the thermal plants in Bulgaria and hitting more than 10,000 workers in this sector. Just to stress the importance of the problem, I will introduce my colleagues to the dynamics of primary energy consumption for the period 2002-2015 on base generating capacities. Coal throughout the period has the highest share in primary energy consumption, which reached 35.5 per cent in 2015. Our peat coal, unfortunately, we know what are of poor quality, very ash, humidity, have a low efficiency of combustion, but co-forest fuel, are produced in an open way and have a very low unit price of energy. Unfortunately, there is nowhere else to use them except in Bulgaria. The share of nuclear energy in 2015 reached 21.1% in primary public energy consumption. Consumption was highest in 2002 and then decreased naturally due to the closure of the First and Second Blocks, rising to 2006. And again declined due to the closure of the Third and Fourth Blocks. Reducing nuclear energy at a total increase in energy consumption is an adverse trend linked to both increasing energy prices and greenhouse gas emissions. Natural gas is also an element that could be used for basic electricity production, primary natural gas consumption is growing to 2007, decreasing to 2013, but in 2015 in all its dynamics the share of natural gas is 14% and is one of the lowest in the European Union. What's the prognosis? The forecast for gross internal consumption of energy by energy sources by 2050 according to the reference scenario for Bulgaria, which was developed for all countries of the European Union at the request of the European Commission in 2016, is as follows. Coal consumption is expected to decrease more than twice, natural gas consumption is changing significantly, significant growth is expected more than twice only to the use of renewable energy sources. In 2010, the largest share of nuclear energy is expected to be followed by renewable energy sources. Given the specifics of energy production from renewable energy sources and our imposition by the European Commission if not tomorrow, at the latest after 5 to 10 years of final closure of the tecs, and if we are accepted the derogation, if we are able to achieve it, my question to you is, Madam Minister, what is the policy of the Ministry of Energy to guarantee Bulgaria's electricity security at socially acceptable and competitive prices?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. For a response Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. In five minutes, Mrs. Petkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ermenkov, Mr. Genov! In implementing energy policy, the Ministry of Energy adopts the main objectives in the energy policy of the European Union, namely the security of energy supply, competitiveness and sustainability. As you know, by decision of September 2011, the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted the National Investment Plan for the period 2013-2020 and approved an application of the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 102 under Directive 87/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the transitional free allocation of greenhouse gas quota emissions and on the modernisation of electricity production. Bulgaria has successfully implemented the National Investment Plan and the Ministry of Energy annually reports to the European Commission the extent of implementation for each year. In relation to the framework adopted by the European Council at the end of 2014 for climate and energy policies by 2030 and the package of measures presented by the European Commission in November 2016 in the framework of the legislative initiative "Clean energy for all policy makers', an integrated national energy and climate plan for the period 2021 The national plan must ensure compliance with the long-term policy objectives at European and national level. This strategic document will define the focus of national energy and climate targets and relevant policies in such a way as to comply with the mutually agreed objectives of the energy Union and, in particular, 2030 targets. As we all know, competitive electricity prices, both wholesale and final customers, can only be achieved in full liberalisation of the electricity market. In line with the requirements of European energy legislation and the trend for the gradual elimination of regulated electricity and natural gas markets within the European Union, the Ministry of Energy has taken action as a result of which the process of developing and introducing a model for full liberalisation of the electricity market in the Republic of Bulgaria is under way and its integration into the common European energy market. In order to ensure social tolerance of electricity prices in the process of achieving full liberalisation of the electricity market in the developed model, a 5-year transitional period is provided for for the complete withdrawal of regulated prices during which such prices are to be applied to domestic electricity customers, which are regulated in part by means of a compensatory mechanism established for the functioning of the model. As you know, on 28 April 2017, the Committee on Art. 75 of Directive 75/2010 adopted a reference document on best available techniques for large combustion plants on industrial emissions. Despite the fact that the document voted on in Brussels sets new, stricter emission limit values for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and mercury, existing plants will be able to benefit from the intended possibility of derogation under art. 15, para. 4 of Directive 75/2010, which will allow them to comply with more liberal norms. The derogation may be applied where the assessment made for the specific installation demonstrates that the achievement of the new emission levels would result in costs disproportionate to the environmental benefits due to the geographical location of the installation or local environmental conditions or because of the technical characteristics of the installation. The competent authority shall ensure that no significant pollution is caused and a high level of environmental protection is achieved at the Ministry of Environment and Water. I am using this case to assure you that the Ministry of Energy is working very actively and assisting all the competent authorities in developing a single position regarding large combustion plants with regard to the possibility for Bulgaria to obtain a derogation in relation to these increased standards. We even had a meeting last week that covered all the stakeholders. There were representatives of all the plants, of all the large combustion plants, representatives of the trade unions, representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Water, of the Ministry of Energy, and our aim is to mobilise our efforts, all the expertise, so that we can really protect the country's interests to the maximum. Because what you mentioned as potential risks really exists, and we need to pool our efforts and really use all the expertise in this area so that we can protect our large combustion plants and ensure security of our electricity system. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to remind you that nearly a month ago I made an official letter to all parliamentary represented political powers for broadcasting representatives to take part in the working group of the Ministry of Energy, which includes representatives of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. We expect union representatives to join us so that we can really do something meaningful and constructive in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u32	Thank you, dear Minister. For two supplementary questions please come in, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I could have bet with anyone and won it if they had argued with me that you would mention market liberalisation as one of the main elements for guaranteeing electricity security. However, in Bulgaria liberalization in the presence of so many contracts with guaranteed benefits from preferential prices is something difficult that we can imagine. Let this be a goal, but I am not convinced that exactly tomorrow and exactly within a year we will be able to achieve it. Among other things, you know that security of supply depends on energy imports. And for the dependence on imports, I will give some statistics here so that my colleagues know where we are right now within the European Union. For the countries of the European Union in 2014, imports were 53.4%, i.e. the countries of the European Union imported more than half of their energy. Against this background Bulgaria with 34.5% is one of the member states of the European Union, with relatively low dependence on the import of energy resources. As I said before, coal is the only more significant local excavation resource. Another local resource for base energy is nuclear. There is, of course, an opportunity to cross coal plants of gas. Varna was such an example if things were going well. But this will increase the country's dependence on imported natural gas. However, against the background of the levels of dependence on most countries in Europe, this would be an opportunity to ensure another source of electricity. In this regard, my two additional questions are: What will the Ministry of Energy take with regard to coal employed under the so-defined perspective? Once again we say that the derogation is not for ever and ever, the end of these power plants will come if this continues. In this way, the prospect of closing the production of electricity from coal, is there a strategy? If there isn't, are we preparing, or are we going to leave over 10,000 people at the mercy of fate and the whims of the labour market? Are we going to take advantage of the E.V.C.C.L. position? By the way, EUROCOLE for colleagues at the risk of exceeding time is that organisation, whose predecessor is the Union for Steel and Coal, was the foundation of the European Union, to bear it in mind. For irregular voting under art. 75 of the reference document for the best available techniques of combustion plants.. I will now provide you with this document, this correspondence. You must have it, but still. The second question: Does the Ministry of Energy consider possibilities to build new base power plants to fill the gap from coal plants if the government fails to protect the power plants and/or the use of natural gas in the production of electricity? And lastly, here's something else I'm going to give you for further. A new complaint appeared in Bulgaria over 1.3 billion. EUR energy subsidies in respect of heating companies, coal plants. In a little while, you'll find that you'll be able to respond to us on a more detailed scale to this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u34	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u35	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Ermenkov, dear Mr. Genov! The two additional questions, which are a little more than two, which you have asked, are indeed very important and very relevant. Of course, first of all, we must think that our most important task is how to get a derogation for a maximum period of time, as we also have the necessary reserves of coal, we have the necessary capacities built up, and here we are adamant that we need to mobilise all our potential as a country so that we can truly defend our position. I don't want to think about the kind of option that's going to happen. However, it is quite likely in the distant future to come to a similar situation. In this regard, it is very important to properly develop the country's energy strategy by 2030 with a horizon by 2050. It is for this reason that my desire and will of the government is to unite our efforts all of us, all of us parliamentary represented political parties, all experts, including from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, who would have a very significant role in such a process if it were to come true after a while. So to think and on such an option again, this is in a very long term, but we are obliged to think exactly in such a longer horizon. Therefore, the answer to such a question personally I do not think that we will receive within the framework of the energy strategy, which we will develop together and which the Bulgarian Parliament must adopt. Regarding whether we will take advantage of EUROCOLE's position, I would like to say that we are familiar with this document, we are analysing it and will inform you about the position on this topic. With regard to new capacities and how the government sees the possibility of being replaced, we are talking in the long term, possibly about large combustion plants. This answer to this so really important question must again find its answer in an energy strategy developed by all of us and adopted by the Bulgarian Parliament. Because you know that the Energy Act clearly states that the country's energy policy is determined by parliament and the energy strategy is implemented by the Council of Ministers. So my answer to this question is: we are thinking about this topic, but I hope we all think together because this is a question that does not concern a government. This is a matter which cannot be resolved in a single term. This is a question which concerns Bulgaria and we must think in this way responsibly and statesmanly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u36	Thank you, dear Minister. For the treatment of Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u37	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Minister! I will not hide that I am satisfied with the readiness you have asked for the government of the Republic of Bulgaria to work for as long as possible the life of the thermal power plants, knowing what this means not only as a place for jobs, but also as structurally defining for our economy. Madam Minister, today we, as a country, are facing a huge challenge to ensure not only Bulgaria's electricity security, but to guarantee at all the security of energy supplies, including gas and oil. If today we do not take the right action, if we as politicians today do not find the right solutions and we do not unite around them, as you said, tomorrow the next generations will not forgive us for this. Because energy, as I've said many times, is not a fast food restaurant, where you go impulsively, order something and quickly get it. Energy is a highly inertial system and decisions, and the actions taken today have their results and consequences after decades. Because today, if we give in to politics again, we put our national interest behind us again and we lower ourselves without trying to protect it, tomorrow Bulgaria will have no base capacities; tomorrow, Bulgaria will become Europe's gas appendicitis, which can easily and painlessly be cut off; tomorrow instead of being one of the energy distribution centres in Europe of strategic regional importance, we will become a beggar waiting for someone to give it. Instead of exporting, we will import electricity; instead of implementing energy projects that generate national and regional security, we will become an element of instability for the region as well as from the upcoming energy pool in Europe and Europe as a whole. Madam Minister, we are not naive. We know that we have irresistible political differences in people's incomes and in terms of the role of the state in the economy, but there are also areas of national importance that should unite us. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] One of these areas is national security, and it includes energy security and because this issue goes beyond the possibilities of a question, because this issue concerns each and every one of us, I formally submit a proposal for a debate on this draft decision on today's question...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u38	The thirty seconds are up, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u39	... Let me just finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u40	Please don't overdo my tolerance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u41	No, I'm not going to overdo it, but here I want to end with one sentence. I have three lines before that. Please, please, let's be like this... In this way, in addition to our views and expectations on the issue of energy security, we will be able to hear the views of colleagues and other parliamentary groups, and you will be able to answer our exciting questions. Let this be the first step in many years to unite around the nationally important topics and justify the motto under which the National Assembly works from its constitution to today. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u42	Thank you. Mr. Ermenkov, you were extremely constructive in talking, so I left you. A proposal for a debate has been made in the Court of Justice. By letter No 754-00-36 of 16 June 2017, submitted at 9.39 p.m., there was a request for discussion on the question, No 754-05-10, of 17 May 2017, by the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Ivan Genov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on the current policy of the Ministry of Energy to ensure Bulgaria's energy security together with the Project for a Decision. The proposal for the debate on the questioning and the draft decision are signed by 51 MPs, that is, the requirement for a proposal of more than one fifth of the MPs is met. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next parliamentary control meeting. We move on to the next question to the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova. It is a question from the National Representative Vassil Milanov Antonov about the participation of Bulgarian companies in the rehabilitation of Pavetc. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u43	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable Minister! In 2016, you were on a visit to Japan and it became clear from your interview that this visit was under the Memorandum of Cooperation concluded in 2011 between NEK and the company Toshiba. You also said that talks were held in the framework of this visit regarding several sites, including the PAVEC. Subsequently, Toshiba is tasked with analyzing and evaluating which companies can participate in the rehabilitation, repair and maintenance of the PAVEC turbines. A letter was received in NEK on 15 November 2016 from the Toshiba Corporation concerning the recommendations for the company of the project.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It marks the company's main request for institutional services, according to § 2, item 2. 2, Volume 3 supplied technical specifications to be excluded from the scope of Toshiba and corresponding recommendations are provided for the contractor to be attracted to VAPTECH. According to Toshiba, the installation works meet all the conditions for all types of installation works. Toshiba, repair, installation and start of the turbine generator equipment of Pavetsa Chaira. Pleven is the former machine building unit of Vaptsarov and basically he performed the assembly of the turbines in the Water Electric Power Plant of Chaira. Dear Minister, what imposed the rehabilitation of the turbine equipment of Pavetsa to be entrusted to a foreign company, provided that the Bulgarian company has the opportunity to perform the same work at the same quality at much lower prices?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u44	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. The Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova has the floor for an answer. You have three minutes to respond, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u45	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Antonov! On 6 December 2013 a Grant Agreement No 049 was signed between the National Electricity Company and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Rehabilitation of the Hydropower Complex The project is funded by the International Fund to support the decommissioning of nuclear power plants in the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and provides 70% of the project funds. The rehabilitation of the Turkish equipment of Pavetsa is part of the planned rehabilitation of the plant, included for funding from the Grant Agreement of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. According to the Grant Agreement, the award of the project activities is required under the rules of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is the administrator of the International Fund of Kozloduy. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development gives permission to the National Electric Company to entrust the rehabilitation of the turbine equipment through direct negotiation with Toshiba, and the initial activities covered by the tender procedure are: delivery of the turbine elements, disassembly, installation and repair works, design and testing of the turbine equipment. After the initiation of the procedure, Toshiba refused the performance of dismantling, installation and repair works. In this regard, in his letter, Toshiba recommended for the contractor of the dismantling, installation and repair works. However, it should be borne in mind that under the rules of the financing institution, the award of these activities would be subject to a separate open tender, since these activities under the rules of the Bank, according to the arguments, could be carried out by any other company, with the exception of the delivery of turbine elements. After consulting the Bank, the National Electric Company prepared amended tender documentation with a subject matter of delivery of direct bargaining services, which was approved again by the Bank and sent to Toshiba. The company has submitted an offer, an assessment has also been carried out due to significant discrepancies with the requirements of the documentation, the tender has been terminated with the approval of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 8 June 2017. What is yet to be done is to prepare new tender documentation and launch a new open competition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u46	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Antonov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u47	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I very much hope that this tender is suspended and that its suspension is caused by the question I have asked. Otherwise, I would have accused you of uncovering lobbying. Toshiba is the company itself offering a performer to be a VAPTECH. Pleven and the works that are awarded on the turbine are awarded to a foreign company. Or what's going on? With European money under the Fund, which is 70%, the Minister of Energy of the poorest economy entrusts the world's third largest economy to the Japanese economy to actually do a job that can be done by our barn company. And some more information. Pleven is a serious company with traditions and history. It is currently producing, selling and installing turbines at many points in the world. In perspective, I will also monitor how the award procedures will be conducted. I understand that there is no way without a competition and without an auction to hold these things. When there is only one or several Bulgarian companies that can perform this service or production, it is sacrilege that we fail to do so that we create more jobs and that this is done in our country of our economy, by our engineers, by our management, by our workers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u48	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Antonov, I am very pleased that you are concerned about this extremely important topic. However, I would like to make some clarification. First, the main concern and protection of the financial interests of the National Electricity Company and the Bulgarian Energy Holding as a whole have been shown by us, the Bulgarian Energy Holding, the Ministry of Energy and the National Electricity Company. In order to come to the processing of tender documentation, to the end of the procedure, the contracting authority here has a crucial role to play, which is the National Electricity Company, which, by analysing the tender, finds that it does not meet the relevant requirements that the contracting entity has set. I would like to make the following clarification. Toshiba does not define "WAPTECH" as a contractor with regard to the delivery of the turbine elements. Toshiba says: "WAPTECH" could carry out the disassembly and assembly activities, so that the open tender, which will be held now, will again be for the delivery of turbine elements. Since the installation and disassembly can be carried out by other companies, there will be a separate open tender, public, transparent, to which the one who gives the best conditions guarantees the best quality, will be the contractor accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u50	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question by the MPs Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov regarding the suspension of the concession procedure. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u51	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! By decision No 430 of 30 May 2012, the Council of Ministers authorised the granting of a concession for a period of 35 years from the locality In the EIA report on the investment proposal there are violations of the regulations, which are evident from the opinion of the Executive Director of Water and Water, the town of Lovech, the director of the Swimming Directorate, Danube Region, Ministry of Environment and Water, as well as other violations and discrepancies which have been referred to as also: the People's Representatives of the Eleventh Lovech Multi-Municipal Region, the Regional Governor of Lovech District, the Minister of Environment and Water and the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, as a result of which is expected to suspend the examination of the report on environmental impact assessment. Dear Minister, our question to you is: in view of the above, will you take immediate measures to end the concession procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u52	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. For a response.. the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u53	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, Dear Mr. Nedyalkov! As you rightly point out in your question, the concession for the extraction of underground wealth, rock-covering materials, limestones from the locality of Uglen., Lukovit Municipality, Lovech District was granted by Decision No 430 of the Council of Ministers of May 2012 for a period of 35 years. The definition of "Bulgarian Consult Engineering" Ltd., Sofia is the holder of a commercial discovery certificate issued in 2008 by the Ministry of Environment and Water. In line with the quoted decision of the Council of Ministers in 2012, negotiations were held on the draft concession contract with the company designated as concessionaire, but the same did not give a final opinion on its proposed draft. At the end of 2015, on the basis of § 30, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Underground Treasures, which was designated as a concession company, confirmed its interest in the conclusion of a concession for the extraction of underground wealth from the locality. In view of the confirmed interest, the negotiations on the project have also been continued in 2016, but no final opinion has been expressed by the concession contract for the extraction of underground wealth from that locality. The rules in force do not contain provisions regulating a limitation period within which the concession contract should be concluded. Since the company chosen as a concession firm has confirmed the interest of concluding a concession contract, it is not subject to a statutory deadline for the conclusion of a concession contract for the company. As it became known last week, the Ministry of Environment and Waters came up with an opinion that it would order the Regional Environmental and Water Inspectorate Pleven to suspend the examination of the environmental impact assessment report for the investment intention to open a career for the extraction of limestone and rock coating materials. The examination of the EIA report shall be terminated until Water Lovech carries out a hydrogeological study to determine the security areas around the karst springs in the village area and to see if the quarry falls within their scope. In the event that the EIA procedure initiated by the commercial company ended with an effective decision of the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection that that investment intention was not approved, the prerequisites for initiating a procedure for the annulment of Decision No 430 of the Council of Ministers of May 2012 on the granting of a concession for the extraction of underground wealth from that locality will be available. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u54	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u55	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. That's really true. The problem is caused by the discontent of the people in the village and we must state it from this tribune. It's not for a reason that they're afraid of three basic things. First, the loss of water from the concession. In addition to the two springs in the village of Uglen, near the 300 decare concession find are located eight other springs that feed with water two more villages in the region. Perhaps it was a weakness that during the procedure for the implementation of the EIA, the people of the village were not well informed. For a reason they are also afraid of changing the environment in the region in a very beautiful karst region of Bulgaria, which is around the village of Uglen. The third, they consider that this concession could distort road infrastructure and, in particular, the two bridges which are not intended for such loads in the future. Those are serious motives. I think that in the actions taken by the Minister for the Environment, further steps will be specified. A week ago, the Lukovit Municipal Council, with a full majority of all political forces, adopted a decision to conduct a local consultation. It will be done in a month's time on July 15th. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Madam President. The problem I think is a little bit bigger, because these things need to be coordinated in advance. Transparency in making such decisions leads to coordination of the various interests of the municipal, local, state interests and the interests of the business. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u56	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. For the doppelganger, the Minister of Energy Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Nedyalkov, I will allow myself to agree with you because the most important thing is the life and health of the people. When there is concern or there are risks to people's lives and health, I think there is no other solution that we can take but to do everything that is necessary so that the competent institutions are in their seats, to do the appropriate checks and to make the best and best decisions. As you mentioned, it is good that everything that is happening with regard to the granting of concessions is coordinated with the relevant institutions. Yes, and the Underground Treasures Act has signed very precisely who these competent institutions are. We have also checked that this decision is followed by the whole legal procedure in terms of coordination, with regard to opinions. The entire legal procedure has been followed, but if the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection comes up with a negative report, then there will be a reason for making a proposal to the Council of Ministers to repeal this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u58	Thank you, dear Minister. We're going to question four. He is from the National Representative Ivo Angelov Hristov on TPP Galabovo and TPP Kontour Global Maritsa East 3 Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u59	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! The topic of the two US power plants, owners of TPP 1 and TPP 3 in Galabovo, is always causing public interest, but it was raised again in early April this year with another increase in the price of natural gas from KEWRC. In the public domain it was said that at the end of 2016 the Bulgarian delegation of the government resigned a meeting with representatives of the mentioned companies in Brussels. It is said that this meeting took place with the mediation of the European Commission, which verbally declared the contracts with the two companies for unlawful State aid a year ago. For the meeting there is no official information from the Bulgarian side. It is also said that this is because at this meeting the Bulgarian delegation did not stand by the Bulgarian interests. I remind you that on 10 June 2016, the members of the Temporary Committee of the 40th National Assembly for Energy Analysis stated explicitly that the contracts with the so-called "American" Power Stations "AI AND EU Galabovo" and "Contour Global Maritsa East 3" AD constitute State aid contrary to European rules. The long-term preferential contracts for the purchase of electricity put the two plants in a more profitable economic position than the other market participants, both existing and future. They guarantee high return on investment and transfer of all risks to the National Electricity Company. Madam Minister, my question is this: was there such a meeting in Brussels? Why has the Bulgarian country not so far insisted that the European Commission deliver a written opinion on unlawful State aid? And what steps will you take to meet the public expectations of full transparency in this case?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u60	Thank you, Mr. Christov. For an answer Mrs. Petkova, Minister of Energy. Here you are, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, the European Commission's Directorate-General for Electricity is opening a procedure on alleged State aid in the form of long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity. The procedure has been opened in connection with a complaint by the former State Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory to the European Commission concerning non-compliance with European Union law and, in particular, art. 107 to 109 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, since, according to the former State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, there are reasonable doubts that the long-term contracts concluded with the National Electricity Company for the purchase of long-term contracts produced by the On the basis of a decision of the Council of Ministers on this matter, 14 of Protocol No 53 of 30 December 2015. The Ministry of Finance has hired two international law firms, which are one of the most prestigious and best law firms to provide advice to the State of International Investment Law and European Union law in connection with the reorganization of relations with the AI and EU Maritsa East 1 On 20 January 2017, a working meeting was held in Brussels in the framework of the Commission's preliminary examination to the European Union between the Directorate-General of the European Commission and the Bulgarian state authorities and companies concerned with the relevant procedure. During the meeting the Bulgarian side provided the requested information from the Directorate General and the explanations. Since the initiation of the procedure, there have been similar technical workshops. There will also be such in the future, as the procedure before the European Commission has not been completed. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Energy, representatives of the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the National Electricity Company, the lawyers of Bulgaria, employed by the Ministry of Finance took part in the meetings held by Bulgaria. They were all involved in the procedure before the European Commission and not as part of a government delegation. The measures on the completion of the procedure shall be subject to disclosure in accordance with the provisions laid down in art. Council Regulation No 2015/1589 of 13 July 2015 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Art. 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The information provided by the Parties and the information on the course of the procedure shall be confidential. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u62	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Hristov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u63	Madam President, colleagues! Dear Minister, I assume that for everyone in this Chamber it is clear that this is the only way for Bulgaria to come out of this situation with European funds within the European right field and defending the Bulgarian national interest. It is clear that the contract concluded with the two so-called American power stations, apart from being European unfair, is in a blatant violation of national interests. This outrage has been going on for more than 15 years and it is clear that the only way is for Bulgaria to assist in the completion of this procedure. I will continue to care when the procedure in question will be completed and what is the official opinion of the Bulgarian country. I'm talking about the official, not the unofficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. For the coat, Mrs. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u65	Thank you. Dear Mr. Hristov, it is good that you are interested in the development of events. We're interested, too, and very serious. It was no accident that one of the first actions that were taken within the framework of Prime Minister Borisov's previous management mandate was precisely to launch the fastest negotiations with the two US power plants so that we could achieve a price reduction. After several months of negotiations, we were able to negotiate a price reduction for availability by 14 or 15%, respectively. Note that these are contracts that are prepared perfectly there an option for price reduction does not exist. Perhaps it is good to mention that such concern should have existed 10 years ago when several agreements were signed to these contracts. With regard to the EIS, there are nine of them, with regard to the "Contour Global" there are seven. Those agreements agreed in 2005 conditions relating to the granting of a State guarantee, conditions relating to the establishment of a specific pledge on claims. All these actions further aggravate the situation at present. But it has to be clear and something else. The two US power plants represent a basic base power for the Bulgarian energy system. Without these capacities, the Bulgarian energy system cannot function normally, especially in winter. Let us remember what difficult days we had during the winter of this year. The other very important thing to know. When someone wants things to happen very quickly and the contracts to be terminated, yes, this can happen, but they provide for a penalty, which in both contracts totals nearly three billion. That, too, should be borne in mind. I am using this case to assure you that the government is working to the maximum extent, and our aim is to protect our interests. On the other hand, security of electricity supply must also be ensured, so we are looking for a solution protecting our interests and, accordingly, the final decision will be the European Commission. But for that there is a special order and a procedure that needs to be followed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u66	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the last question to the Minister of Energy. Question from the National Representative Ivo Angelov Hristov concerning voltage in NEK EAD, Enterprise Mr. Hristov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u67	Madam President, colleagues! Dear Minister, in my reception in the city of Plovdiv there was a signal about the methods of management and construction of the manager of NEK EAD, Company Veselin Manevsky. I am convinced that such a signal is addressed to you, because recently the discontent of the employees escalates.. they protested very strongly and openly even in Sofia, in front of the building of NEK. Their insistences are known to you as you have already made a commitment to conduct a thorough examination of the case. In the media were published disturbing facts about the realized by eng. Manevski appointments that do not meet the requirements for education or competence to hold the relevant posts. I do not consider it necessary to list them by name, because this information is also available, including you. I have also been informed that you have made a commitment to adequately address the problems that create tension in the collective in the enterprise in question. The implementation of large-scale projects by NEK EAD is forthcoming in order for them to be implemented qualitatively, the conflict between employees and the manager of the enterprise needs to be overcome. Dear Minister, how many checks have you done so far in connection with complaints of employees against the management methods and personnel policy of the manager eng. Manevsky? What actions will you take to finally resolve this conflict? Will you satisfy the claims of the employees who, in a petition, insist on its removal with clear reasons that the manager's actions are aggravating the employment climate and the results of the enterprise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u68	Thank you, Mr. Christov. For a response.. the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Hristov! The company is an enterprise of the National Electricity Company, which is a commercial company of the holding group of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. In connection with the tension created in the last months in the company, in early May I invited to a meeting at the Ministry of Energy the two countries in the conflict, respectively Mr. Manevski and Mr. Dragomir Dimitrov. The purpose of the meeting was to clarify the reasons for the tension and to reach consensus on the possibilities for its resolution. Regardless of the conversation held and the positions put forward by both parties, no solution was found for the outcome of the situation thus created. As you pointed out, with an order from February this year the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Energy Holding has been appointed an inspection by the Department of Inspectorat and a report on the topic has been presented. After meeting the report of the Inspectorate of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, I found that much of the findings in it and the allegations were not supported by the relevant evidence. Where certain claims are made that the regulatory framework for determining remuneration, in relation to the payment of overtime, in relation to additional material incentive, must be relied on by the relevant regulatory framework. Since in the report of the Inspectorate of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, I found no evidence of these alleged findings, I ordered a new inspection to be carried out, which includes experts from the Ministry of Energy, the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the National Electric Company, who on the ground carried out a detailed check according to the regulations. The results of this check have been provided to me. What colleagues have found is that there is no breach of the rules relating to the determination of wages, there is no infringement related to the payment of overtime. Rather, the claims made by colleagues are that there is such overtime and it has not been paid, but the Labour Code and the regulations clearly govern how it is due and what should be available in order to have such overtime, and yet what limits there may be to put overtime by a certain category of employees. Therefore, these claims concerning infringements of the regulatory framework were not confirmed. Undoubtedly, what has been established is that voltage is created and the normal micro-climate is disturbed in the Enterprise. For this reason Mr. Manevski, as I dare to claim a worthy and responsible person, deposited his resignation and respectively the CEO of NEK accepted it. At this point, that's the situation. I very much hope that there will be no political elements in the situation, because, frankly, in the conversations I have had, I have felt a hint of reproach towards Mr. Manevski that he had appointed colleagues who had certain biases for certain political power and other things. I don't think it's the job of the people who are there to deal with the construction. Their job is to work because they are in an enterprise that has a structurally defining role in the Bulgarian energy system. I hope things get back to normal from now on and everyone works for what they have a contract for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u70	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Hristov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u71	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Madam Minister! Today is a happy day for Bulgarian democracy. I have not yet asked the question, and the results are already in place, which means an increase in the efficiency of parliamentary control. That, of course, in the circle of irony and joke, but also truth. An abnormal situation has been created in the enterprise in question, and it has been carried out, naturally, as politically appropriate, and not according to the competence of the persons. Besides, you've already been dealt with by colleague Ermenkov. From now on, I hope that this and similar cases will be resolved in such an efficient manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u73	Dear Mr. Christov! It may be a happy day for the Bulgarian democracy, but I believe that this is a day when a decent person from the sector will be relieved in the name of the company, to work normally, resigned. I would like to reiterate that violations have not been detected. When someone has a claim that in an enterprise everyone should receive equal wages because they are in the same position, do you think it is democratic? I don't think it's democratic. It takes us back in some other times, where we all received the same rewards, regardless of who had what potential. Some colleagues considered this a violation, but this cannot be a violation. It can't be a violation, and when you go to work, you claim to have put in overtime without following legal procedure. In order for overtime to take place, there must be an employer's order, at which point he can clearly tell who at which point what activity he has to perform and what time he has to report. I would like to say again that this is a day when a worthy person resigns in the name of this enterprise, which is of structural importance for Bulgarian energy, to work normally and peacefully. I hope that those who are in the company and those who had fundamental claims are just as responsible to do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u74	Thank you, dear Minister! Let's thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control of the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova. We move on to questions to the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. The first question is from the MPs Krassimir Hristov Yankov and Daniel Petkov Yordanov about the beach. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam Secretary! In the northern part of the Bulgarian Black Sea coast near the village of Bulgarevo, the municipality of Kavarna is situated the locality of Bolata. At the foot of the rocky shores is located a sandy beach, which is of natural origin. The resort is the only reserve in Bulgaria, including an aquatoria sea area. The Bay is part of the Club The most beautiful bays in the world. It is famous for high attendance by local holidayers, foreign tourists, lovers of Black Sea fishing, as well as as as a dive site. The fact is that we are already in an active tourist season and according to industry organizations it is expected to be very good, and this in turn implies its great attendance. Currently, the beach has limited access to use. In this regard, our question to you, Madam Minister, is as follows: what measures does the Ministry of Tourism take to ensure access to the beach? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u76	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u77	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Yankov, Dear Mr. Yordanov! As of 31 March 2017, the seaside beach has not been granted to a concession or rent-out and has been included in the list of unguarded sea beaches for the summer season 2017. According to the Black Sea Coast Construction Act (SOC), after the sea beach has been declared unguarded, the regional governor may propose for the approval of the Minister of Tourism a water saving scheme during the relevant summer season and the mayor of the municipality of Kavarna should carry out its cleaning. For these beaches, the Ministry of Tourism shall transfer funds from the amounts collected from the concessionable and leased sea beaches located in the respective territory as follows: 10% to the budget of the regional managers and 50% to the municipalities to carry out these activities. At the moment, the pedestrian access to the seaside beach is made by passing through the reserve "Kaliakra" and the sand strip and the bay are part of the protected area "Kaliakra Complex" by Natura 2000. The conditions and arrangements for crossing the reserve shall be governed by the Law on Protected Areas. According to the provisions of this Law, the Ministry of Environment and Water and its regional authorities conduct and carry out management and control in protected areas, and entrust the activities of maintenance and recovery............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In this regard, I share your thesis that it is necessary for the municipality to take special measures in order to limit the access of cars to protected areas, because according to art. 14, para. 2 of ZCHK, the objects for transport connection and for pedestrian and bicycle movement are defined with a detailed plan for the respective territory of the municipality. On 1 June, together with Minister Dimov, we carried out a joint on-site inspection together with the regional teams of MOEW. During the inspection, no violations were found on the sandy strip, but access of cars to the beach is not admissible. The Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Environment and Water will control throughout the active season whether all legal requirements are respected, including parking spaces and access to fishermen. The limited access you define is with regard to cars and is only to prevent pollution on the beach. Therefore, during the verification carried out on 1 June 2017, the representatives of the municipality of Kavarna expressed their consent in principle to establish a parking spot outside the beach and we are in the process of waiting for information from the mayor of Kavarna for further action taken and identification at the exact place where parking is to take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u78	Thank you, dear Minister! For a line, Mr. Yankov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u79	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the answer we have received, we understand that you have started your visits and knowledge of the actual situation, but we expect you as Minister of Tourism to go all the way that is needed to use the guests of the municipality of Kavarna and the residents of the municipality themselves this wonderful place. We expect from you the regional governor to take concrete action to fulfil his commitment to securing security. Of course, according to your methodical instructions, the mayor of the municipality will have to ensure and ensure access through the reservation and the specific place for stopping cars. My question is: how in short time will the beach itself be accessible and it will be possible for tourists to take advantage of the place itself and the beach? The transfer by you of the responsibility of the municipality and the mayor of the municipality of Kavarna, I do not think that it exempts you from your commitments as Minister of Tourism. The government of Boyko Borisov, in which you are part with specific commitments, includes the commitment of the district governor. Please answer us within what deadlines will all obstacles to the possibility of beaching be removed? What is the deadline that you think should be placed on both the municipality and the district governor, as the active season has already started? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u80	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. For an answer the Minister of Tourism, Mrs. Angelkova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u81	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Iankov! There's no problem at the moment. Those who want to beach, do it on the beach, because access is not limited, as I said, and the pedestrian, and unfortunately, the car. What we have taken as steps, I hope within 10 days that is what we have given to the respective mayor and the governor of the district to answer us, because these are their powers which are included in the Law.................................................... the specific status of the beach.................................................................................................................................................................................. And right now, there's no problem with people wanting to beach, doing it. The beach is clean, they can do it anytime. It's a matter of limiting access to cars that pollute it. That's where we've given a 10-day deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u82	Thank you very much, Madame Minister. We move on to the next issue, which is from the MP Miglena Doykova Alexandrova, regarding measures to ensure the security and safety of tourists on the Black Sea coast. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, the summer tourist season is in full swing, our seaside resorts are full, and this year tourists are expected to grow on the sea coast. With the break season, unfortunately, accidents begin. Tourists often become the target of robberies and beatings, and there are no few cases of serious criminal acts. In this regard, I ask you to answer me what security measures will be taken on the Black Sea to prevent such incidents as last year's gunfight in Sunny Beach? What measures will be taken against pickpockets that summer season concentrate on resorts? I'd like to make one clarification, if I may. When I wrote this question, the incident with the Bulgarian maid and the Swede who kicked her had not occurred in Sunny Beach. So if it's convenient, how are you going to take care of the safety of the people who work in the tourist sector on the sea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. For an answer the Minister of Tourism Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, ensuring the security of tourists visiting a destination is a priority in the policy led by the Ministry of Tourism, especially given the overall international situation. In this sense, it is important for us the presence of employees of the Ministry of Interior in the resorts, whose presence undoubtedly strengthens the feeling of security and calmness of tourists. In the first days of the formation of the cabinet, the Ministry of Tourism held meetings at places with the control bodies, including those of the Ministry of Interior. Based on the draft plan for the activities of the Ministry of Interior for Public Order Protection and Counteraction of Crime, and ensuring fire safety in resort complexes and tourist areas, the work of the Interdepartmental Coordination Centre will continue, involving representatives of the NRA and other structures, as well as the Ministry of Tourism, to control illegal trade and counter the smuggling of excise goods. A total of 946 civil servants with police powers will be posted in a phase, including officers from the Ministry of the Interior of Burgas, 785 employees; in support of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior of Varna, 111 employees; in support of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior of the Interior of Dobrich, 50 employees. It will also continue the work of joint police officers from the Member States of the European Union, with their activities focused on: security of foreign tourists. In the event of a crime committed against a foreign citizen during this summer season, an organisation will be established to implement a simplified procedure for issuing certification documents and installing post terminals. Type forms are also confirmed for receiving and transmitting reports of crimes translated into German, French, English and Russian. An organization has been established in the Directorate-General for National Police to implement a number of preventive, security and operational search activities related to information provision of foreign tourists and facilitating language communication, unobtrusive and rapid access of representatives of the consular services, carrying out targeted control...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u86	Madam Secretary, just a minute. Please, colleagues, quickly take your seats, you're interfering with work. [[People from BSP for Bulgaria are entering the hall. Announcements from the BSP for Bulgaria: "Eeeee!."]] Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u87	...in the activities of private security companies and self-guard units, conducting preventive events related to improving road infrastructure conditions, street lighting, changing the organisation of movement and providing optimal parking and building video surveillance systems. Plans have been prepared to interact with airport operators' security services, increased information exchange between the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, the Directorate General of Border Police and, on the one hand, travel agencies and air carriers, on the other hand, in order to obtain preliminary information on arriving and departing passengers from risk destinations and nationalities. We have the assurance of our colleagues from the Ministry of Interior that there is, if necessary, a readiness for additional staff and equipment to be posted to international airports. We believe that all these activities correspond to the main priorities of the Ministry of Tourism and that the presence of employees of the Ministry of Interior on the ground is one of the ways through which we will be able to convince all tourists that the Bulgarian resorts are a secure and preferred destination as they are in reality. With regard to the Sunny Beach. As a company, Sunny Beach provides video surveillance. More than 360 video cameras are installed on the resort territory. Also, we have requested from concessionaires and beach tenants and greater illumination. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u88	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Madam Minister, the measures you have taken sound really good. I very much hope that they will deliver results for the security of tourists and for the security of Bulgarian resort workers. Unfortunately, in recent years, Bulgaria has had the opinion that it is a cheap destination where there is serious crime, unfortunately, and tourists can do whatever they want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u90	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, I think that since the Ministry of Tourism has been established, we have been working purposefully to validate Bulgaria as a year-round tourist destination. The priority of the government of Boyko Borisov is namely security and safety, especially for all tourists. This is evident from the results we have last year, with an increase of more than 16% or that is more than 8 million. 200,000. foreign tourists. I do not think that Bulgaria is established and is known only as a cheap destination. Actually, that's not the purpose of the Ministry either. Bulgaria has the opportunity to offer all types of tourist products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u92	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank Minister Angelkova for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We're moving on to questions for the Minister of... [[People from BSP for Bulgaria are willing to read a statement.]] Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, a declaration on behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u93	Dear Madam President, twenty Members of the ruling majority! [[Reply from the People's Representative Pavel Shopov.]] At the moment, GERB and "United Patriarchs" are preparing the budget for 2018, so I would like to ask a few questions from now on. The state budget is not accounting for revenue and expenditure. The state budget is the highest form of policy making. So far, we have repeatedly raised the question, have we paid attention to the fact that you deliberately reduce the revenue to make surpluses for two reasons. The first one is piarian and we leave it aside for you to boast that you have surpluses. The second one, however, is important. I'd like to take her more seriously. This surplus is distributed not as defined by the Constitution through the State Budget Act, but by a single decision of the Prime Minister and by a decree of the Council of Ministers, i.e. subjectively. Today, in this case, I will talk about redistribution to the local authorities because last week we met at a national meeting with mayors raised by us and elected in our municipalities. I speak for them today. Since they were raised directly by the inhabitants of these municipalities, I speak on behalf of these people. Dear colleagues, each of us has the right to our own opinion, but we are not entitled to our own facts, and the facts are: as early as August 2016. 43 municipalities received a decision by the Council of Ministers 27 million. lv. Even after resigning in November, the Council of Ministers distributes another 50 million. On December 14th, with a decision by the Council of Ministers, another 15 million, so that I do not go on about 1 billion. lv. We are not opposed to financing municipalities, they are not funded. We're against the way you do it. Instead of updating the budget and here in Parliament to decide how municipalities are financed, you do it by Prime Minister Borisov, and in a political way, mainly to municipalities governed by GERB. You encourage the comfortable and punish the inconvenient mayors, and through them the people who live in these municipalities. You divide the Bulgarian citizens by a selfish, party and lobbying principle. Once again, because we are going to talk about a budget, we are going to put another problem on the table. We warn you in 2018 to stop with the wicked practice of transferring to local authorities, to municipalities obligations without providing funding for this. In the last two years, colleagues, we've done an analysis. With 100 regulatory regulations, 100 in number, you have transferred to the local authorities obligations without providing them with financials for this! I will give just two specific examples. You transferred the illegal construction to them, and the DNCK stayed here, in Sofia with the budget, with the state. The duties went to the municipalities. You transferred professional high schools to them without a budget. Some of them will be shut down because the mayors can't handle it. In other words, the government keeps the money and the rights for itself, and only transfers the duties to the municipalities without providing them. The big municipalities will cope, but the medium and small ones fail. They accumulate duties, the service to the population worsens, municipal hospitals are shut down, municipal schools suffer. We have been talking a lot about Europe at two speeds lately, and how many speeds does Bulgaria live at? Look at the big cities and small settlements that are becoming more and more depopulated. The Minister of Regional Development has become the Minister of Highways, but you have no policy on the regions and how to start overcoming these differences. On the contrary, through this policy you are conducting through the budget, you are validating differences. Life isn't just in our offices and the yellow pavements. Life is where there is no hospital, no school, no job and we really live in two Bulgarians ours, the politicians, the luxury one, and the one that is the real one. By putting aside the other, the real, third problem, I put aside the real, and the ministers are putting unprecedented illegal pressure on mayors. I'll give an example. You tell them that if they don't join the water-associations, you will stop them from funding under operational programmes and under the POSO (Environmental Management Programme). On what grounds are you going to do this? What do you want from a profitable municipal company, such as... Troyan, where people have decided that it will work as a municipal company, including your advisors? By the way, your advisors from GERB have also supported this decision. Water is low price, the company wins. You press them to enter the Water Association to take on the loss of other losing companies, as a result of which the price of water will go up times, and on top of everything you say to them, "If you don't, we won't give you money under other programs. On what grounds? What do you mean? Apart from the racketeering, the pressure and the way you run the country, you have no other reason. You're in a completely messed-up local government policy, and you're on purpose. And this is rooted in two things in the Budget Act and in the Public Finance Act. In the Budget Act, in which you provide less revenue, so that you can then spend for your mayors, subjectively, for your companies and so on, we demand an update of the budget in this House. This is a parliamentary republic. Budget funds are allocated in Parliament, not subjectively, by one person in the country. We are not a prime minister's republic, and we want a budget update to be tabled. Your excess is growing more and more.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u94	What was it like in 2008? How was it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u95	Then why did you charge 400 million last week? lv. co-financing credit under operational programmes? Why do you owe Bulgaria if you have a great surplus? Bring it in here this budget and see what happens if there is excess, if it is not, why take new credits and so on. The second reason for this condition is the Public Finance Act, where you amended to allow the state or executive and local government relations to be governed through the Public Finance Act by an act of the Council of Ministers. This is contrary to Chapter 7 of the Constitution, which is why the second act that we are taking today after the budget update is this complaint to the Constitutional Court. We've collected signatures. We are taking the final measure from the BSP for Bulgaria. We ask for the annulment of this article of the Public Finance Act, which you adopted and which gives you the opportunity to distort the country's budget and financial policy in a close party, bulging and lobbying interest. We're going to the Constitutional Court! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. We are going to ask the Minister of Education and Science from the National Representative Manol Genov about the policy of the Ministry concerning the demands of municipalities for consent change the purpose of former school buildings with a decline of necessity. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my question is about the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science on the demands of municipalities for consent to change the purpose of former school buildings with a decline of necessity. Dear Minister, over the last decade demographic arguments, management decisions have caused our country to experience a wave of closures of schools in villages, smaller towns. Guilt to admit this has the Ministry of Education and Science and the State as a whole. There was also obvious chaos in the regulations: how can, who allows these empty buildings to quickly change their functionality and become useful again by changing their purpose? The losses from these management decisions and this management negligence alone in recent years amount to millions, perhaps tens of millions of levs. Municipalities are unable to manage, maintain these uninhabited properties, the state stubbornly binds their hands to realize investment intentions for new use and new lifestyles in these buildings. Dear Minister, my question is related to this: what real steps will the Ministry, what should happen, what new policy will the Ministry take? Do not continue the continuity that existed until now, regardless of who, when and how did he manage, and if you make such a commitment, what deadlines will it be realized? I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, let's stop the destructive action. This process is destructive. These buildings, if they do not liberalize the regime and consent of the Ministry to change their purpose, will simply collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u98	Thank you, Lord Genov. For an answer, the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev. Here you go, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, regarding the first question about the actions that could be taken by the Ministry of Education and Science in order to enable municipalities to start procedures for changing the purpose and use of the buildings of closed and converted schools, the need for which it has dropped out, I inform you. According to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area, the Minister of Education and Science expressed written consent to change the purpose of a building or part of a building, or to modify detailed planning and to change the purpose of regulated land estates assigned to objects of education and science. On the other hand, the repealed Law on People's Education significantly limited the possibility of disposal of properties or parts thereof, released as a result of the closure or conversion of public or municipal schools, kindergartens and service units, restricting the material base to be used only for educational, health, social and humanitarian activities. The new Law on pre-school and school education repeats the rule adopted in the repealed Law on People's Education that the properties released as a result of the closure and conversion of public and municipal schools, kindergartens, centers for support for personal development are used for educational, health, social and humanitarian activities, but provides exceptions for their use and other activities in case the following conditions are met at the same time: within two years no public need has been identified for their use for educational, health, social and humanitarian activities has been identified, there is a positive opinion of the Minister of Education and Science, prepared on the basis of an assessment of the educational needs of the municipality and the settlement is with population below five thousand people. In response to your second question concerning specific deadlines for taking clear action aimed at stopping the destructive process of buildings of closed or converted schools, we should bear in mind that such have already been undertaken by art. 305, para. 2 of the Preschool and School Education Act. The quoted norm significantly expands the existing limitation of the material base for which there is no public need for it to be used for other activities than those listed. The legislature has envisaged a new power of the Minister of Education and Science: expressing an opinion prepared on the basis of an assessment of the educational needs of the municipality. The Ministry of Education and Science has established a Commission to examine the proposals received. The Minister of Education and Science has expressed an opinion following expert analysis. Because of the foregoing, I believe that a new change in the regulation is not necessary, as the consent adopted ensures a balance between the private interest and the interest of society. In fact, what you are talking about has found a solution in the Preschool and School Education Act. I attended the discussion in the Commission on these texts. Indeed, the aim was to find a balance and, on the one hand, not to create incentives for the self-inflicted closure of schools with a view to using their properties for private interests, on the other hand, where there are properties released as a result of closure and conversion, and where it is clear that demographic processes are irreversible and are unlikely to open a school, can be used for any other purpose. This balance was found with the third condition that the settlement had population below five thousand. Of course, mostly in the vicinity of some major cities and smaller settlements whose population is increasing and therefore the opinion of the Minister of Education and the relevant regional education management is provided. We believe that this is how the balance is made. As far as my commitment is concerned, I can assure you that in any case, when such a proposal enters the Ministry and meets the conditions, I will give a positive resolution when there is an opinion, of course, of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u100	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Genov, come in for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u101	Dear Minister, I am pleased with your answer as far as you have theoretically explained to me. There is a committee in the Ministry that decides, of course, as you yourself said, whether an object should be released from its purpose. You've had a lot of internship at the Ministry of Education since about a month ago, you've been a minister. I want to ask you: Will you, as Minister, visit at least one village or town to see the really ghostly appearance of such a building? These buildings, Mr. Minister, are a great burden on the municipalities. They must be protected, and the municipalities have no money, as it has just become clear from the declaration, to guard them. They become a free 24-hour shop for bricks, tiles, windows and so on, if there still are. You really have the support, if you need legislative solutions, I think all colleagues from all groups will agree to this, so that you can really liberalise this mechanism and these buildings - ghosts, as I said, disappear from the country because they are in many places. These 5,000, which is in the law as a restriction on the population, do not know how much it can be lawful, but it is not appropriate. So request from your regional units information about where, how many such schools there are, what state they are in, so that the media and we MPs from this tribune do not point out and say how things really are. I urge you to agree to these buildings acquire another functionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u102	Thank you, Mr. Genov. For an answer, the Minister of Education and Science. Mr. Valchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u103	Thank you. Mr. Genov, although in most cases, if we visit settlements where there are active schools, I suppose each of us has seen such buildings. 98% of unused buildings, which were part of the educational infrastructure, are in settlements with less than 5000 people. Of course, we can do an analysis of whether to lift this limit, but at this time our answer is rather....... not...................................................... There is no need for additional legislative solutions, there is a need for an initiative of municipalities and, above all, a demand for their transformation. We assume that for a small part of the buildings there is such a demand, which means that the rest will continue to be unused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u104	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Genov, about attitude? No. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Irena Todorova Anastasova regarding the collection of information from the Ministry of Education and Science about the educational level and employment of the parents of children from kindergartens and students from specialized and non-specialized schools. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u105	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! My question is about the requested information from all schools in the country. On May 25th and 26th, this information reached the schools. This is after a letter from Mrs. Albena Mihaylova, Secretary General of the Ministry of Education and Science. Data are required from all parents to be collected from schools in the country, the data for parents are: educational level and employment. My question is: what exactly in these deadlines did the request and the collection of this information take place? What guarantees the reliability of the information? Are the requirements in the quoted letter compatible? The actuality of this issue is already over, but my question is due to the fact that in this particular period in the schools I will not issue, more than 20 types of activities are carried out: the period for the completion of the school year for the beginning stage, the completion of the school year from 5 to 7 grade, the formation of the entire school documentation; for the admission in 1, 5 and after 7 grade; the finals. At this point in schools, frankly, it is only up to them to collect this information, all the more so that the letter states that this information can be collected on any occasion with phone calls from the classroom managers, with visits to students' homes and so on. That is, in this period we have to deal with this at the Bulgarian school. That's my question, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u107	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Anastasova! In relation to your question, I inform you that the collection, processing and storage of information in the system is carried out through the national electronic information system under the provision of art. 6 of Ordinance No 8/2016. It consists of electronic modules and integrated registers. In relation to the need to update and supplement the data in a modular institution, a work card has been created, characteristics of the environment for collecting information on the educational level and employment of the members of the families with whom the children and students currently live and those taking care of them. The Ministry of Education and Science is the controller of personal data which empowers him to collect and process that information. The work card with characteristics of the environment is sent to the heads of regional education departments with instructions for filling them out. The information should be collected and completed on an online platform by 30 June 2017. The map contains only an opportunity to mark the educational level and the current employment of parents. The collection of information does not require personalised data or direct employment. The work card shall be completed by the parents upon their consent. The system is not accessible to external users and the information collected is used only by the controller of personal data, which ensures compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act. The information collected is only necessary to analyse the social environment in which students live and are raised in order to study its relationship with the process of increasing the scope of persons and students; reducing the rate of early school dropout and also with better educational results. To ensure objectivity, it is indicated that this should be done by the teachers of groups in kindergartens and classrooms in schools during parental meetings, in individual discussions, and in providing the work card to students in the family, but not by filling out by the student. The information is only necessary to analyze schools by districts, municipalities, settlements and by type of schools and classes in order to identify vulnerable groups of students. These two criteria are relevant both to the detention of children at school and to increasing their confidence and motivation for learning, which contributes to better training. The analyses will help to develop specific measures to support students with adverse social characteristics, expressed in additional consultations to compensate for training difficulties or to organize and conduct extracurricular activities in order to motivate and detain them at school. It will be possible to take action aimed at increasing attendance in an hour, reducing delays, developing and implementing cooperation programmes and actively involving parents in school policy and its management. On the other hand, this information will help attract and detain in these areas of teachers motivated to work in more challenging schools. In general, we cannot make almost no policies without having information about the so-called 'contextual' characteristics. Perhaps the main factor that relates to the educational results of the participants shows it international research where such information is necessarily collected is the educational level of the parents. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm out of time, maybe later.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u108	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Anastasova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u109	Dear Minister, you yourself said that all this only happens if the parents agree, according to the parents. That is, we rely on a good attitude from the other side. I ask again: what is the authenticity of this inflation? Because a parent can say anything. First of all, we already have a lot of cases where parents refuse. I do not know if it is so in smaller towns, but in Sofia the educational level is quite high, the parents are very suspicious, they approach with doubts, so we have many refusals in Sofia. In the end, in order to make the right decisions and make a good analysis, we need to step on reliable information. The other, in all this commotion and in all this stress at the end of the school year, when you imagine, Mr. Minister, there are many employees in the Ministry in directions, each of them in some way performing some activity, asking for some information. In schools downstairs, we're administration of three, four, one director, two deputy directors, not a single deputy director in places just one deputy director. From now on, everything falls down on the class leaders. Believe me, in recent years, we have grown up with so many regulations, rules, instructions, do not turn us into what personal doctors have become. We, instead of having time to work with the children, work with documentation and this will be told by every Bulgarian teacher. In that sense, I mean, recreate the things that you drop down for performance. I think there are other ways to collect reliable information about the educational value of parents and employment. Even if we make this effort, this information is hardly ultimately credible. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Mr. Minister, for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u111	Thank you. Our information is necessary for a period of up to the end of the month because of the analyses we are doing in relation to the change, including in the distribution mechanism, and the delegated budget system with a view to differentiated funding to schools and kindergartens, where there is a concentration of children from vulnerable groups. In fact, the initial deadline was 15 June 2017, as soon as we received a reaction, you may have said that to some extent your question is not up-to-date. As soon as we got a reaction that there were clusters of tasks in this period, we changed the deadline, but we still can't put it off much longer. The information will be used at the aggregate level, i.e. all children and students from the relevant educational institution, which makes the probability of individual incorrect data less. Of course, we will also want this information as far as possible to be verified because we know which schools are where children and students from vulnerable groups are concentrated. In fact, this will be one of the main objectives of the sample. As for the general question that you have addressed about the work of teachers and the many documents they need to fill out, I think I have had an opportunity to answer. In the Committee on Education and Science, we have started work on simplifying documents and reducing these rules by changing standards. Personally, my appeal to colleagues has always been to take kindly to teachers and directors in the system when they want information, so I rather agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u112	Thank you, dear Minister. We are moving on to the last question by the MP Petar Vitanov concerning measures on the occasion of the frequent cases of violence in schools. Here you go, Mr. Vitanov. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u113	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! In recent years, there has been a tendency to increase aggressive behavior and violence in Bulgarian schools and kindergartens. Students beat students, students beat teachers, parents beat teachers, educators harass children from the nursery groups. Dear Minister, I could only describe this as a symptom of the severe problems in our society, which I would classify as a breakdown of a value system, disrespect for the individual, a lack of opportunity to deal with the most elementary crisis situations. The Bulgarian school has always been the basis for the integrity of our society and hope for its future. Therefore, acts of violence at school are a serious threat to existence as a nation and a country at all. Since August 30, 2016 the Pre-school and School Education Act has entered into force, which in fact had high hopes of stopping the serious problems in Bulgarian education, including the violent acts in it. For his weaknesses and rather for his disastrous event on the traditions of the Bulgarian educational system BSP alarmed even after his introduction to the Forty-first National Assembly. Unfortunately, after its entry into force, however, these manifestations not only did they not decrease, but also increased. My question to you, Minister, is entirely in line with the election program of GERB, in which Bulgaria's education was raised as a top priority. What measures does the Ministry of Education and Science take to limit the frequent cases of violence in Bulgarian schools? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u114	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. For an answer, the Minister of Science and Education Mr. Valchev. Here you are, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u115	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vitanov! In view of the increased cases of violence in schools and prevention of aggression, the Ministry of Education and Science took the following measures. A commitment to interact with other institutions related to children's policies has been initiated since April to implement 22 measures related to prevention of aggression and violence in educational institutions. In the spirit of continuity, these measures will continue to be implemented, but the aim is to assess the effectiveness of their implementation and, if necessary, to optimize them with the aim of overcoming severe cases of aggression and lowering the level of aggression in general. The Ministry of Education and Science continues working on the commitment with 22 measures to stop aggression. Meetings were held with prominent specialists in child development, psychologists, pedagogical advisors, as well as with organizations related to the policies for children and the representatives of parents who are an equal partner in the educational process. For the purposes of joint work, the meetings of this working group will be regular. Pedagogical specialists such as principals of kindergartens, schools, teachers, school psychologists will also be attracted to implement strategic planning of short- and long-term measures aimed at preventing and tackling problems, aggression and violence. From the new school year will be a common tool for dealing with aggression. A national mobile group for psychological support also works with the Ministry of Education and Science. The aim is to respond in cases of crisis situations and conflicts, including those related to school aggression. There is a crisis intervention of children and students who are victims of a critical event or preventative support for conflict resolution in areas where there are not enough psychologists and pedagogical advisors. A common mechanism for countering school bullying has been introduced in educational institutions between children and students at school, which contains very precise guidelines on how to work with a child who has been harassed, how to stop school bullying, how is the treatment of bullying observers. Specific guidelines for attracting parents, as well as for establishing a school guidance system for other services, are described. The resources the school can rely on in dealing with school harassment cases are also described. An algorithm for applying the mechanism has also been developed. Together with the Ministry of Interior, the scope of the National Program for Working with the Police is discussed, where retired staff from children's pedagogical rooms attend schools and hold criminal prevention classes. There will be optimization of texts in the Ordinance on Inclusive Education so as to introduce urgently the team approach to support personal development for each child and student who encounters difficulties in learning, including children with special educational needs, children who have experienced violence, children in conflict with the law, threatened by dropping out of school and others defined within the meaning of the Preschool and School Education Act. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the measures taken by the Ministry of Education and Science will provide in the long term a secure and protective environment in which the best interests of the child and the student will be respected and will help reduce the growth of crimes committed by children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u116	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Vitanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Thank you for the comprehensive response to these 22 measures, although the measures cited by them are rather reactive and are not related to prevention, as the aid for dealing with aggression and the crisis group is actually dealing with the investigation rather than with the root cause. Last week, I also received an answer to my written question about the authorship of the Preschool and School Education Act. The purpose of my question was to establish the expert capacity of the creators of the Law, because the point of it is to actually be in line with the educational standards laid down in it. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, a uniform standard for the material environment in the Bulgarian kindergartens and schools has not yet been developed, and this actually has a direct link with the manifestations of violence and aggression. Just imagine the mental state of a child who has to stay ten hours in a room without a space for physical activity and sports, without a place for rest and rest. One more thing. With this Law, assisting professions in the Bulgarian school such as psychologists, logos, social workers were reduced to the definition of pedagogical specialists, which in fact significantly reduced their motivation to exercise this profession, which also has a direct link to the manifestations of violence. These are just some of the weaknesses, and if I have to list others, I'm afraid we won't have enough time, but let me say something, not as a legislator, but as a parent. Our chairman is talking about a parallel country. The law of preschool and school education has opened a door to the creation of a parallel education system that we are victims of both parents and children. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u118	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. For the back, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u119	Thank you. Indeed, when we are talking about the issue of aggression, we are talking about a number of measures. There are no single or several measures that we can implement and expect a quick, immediate result. There are many policies and factors in the school environment. The mental, emotional state of the child is the result of many factors of the environment. Therefore, our commitment is to the extent possible for each of these activities, for each of these measures, to work and to make progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u120	Thank you, dear Minister. This ended the series of questions to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev. We move on to the next series of questions to the Minister of Interior Mr. Valentin Radev. First is a question by the National Representative Krasimir Hristov Yankov on the creation of a functional model and policy for the implementation of the main tasks of the Ministry of Interior. Here you are, you have three minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, after a meeting of the political leadership of the Ministry of Interior with the trade union organizations in the system, it was announced that the creation of a functional model was agreed in order to optimize the work of the interior office and analyse duplicate functions in the Ministry. This was the first meeting, which is a reflection of the vision and the stated desire for dialogue on both sides. In this regard, my question to you is: what are your expectations from the announced creation of a functional model and do you foresee a change in the structure of the Ministry of Interior? Will there be an optimization of the management system and what will be your policy for carrying out the main tasks of the Ministry of Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. For an answer the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Valentin Radev. You have five minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Iankov, my speech at the meeting with the trade unions was provoked because of my observation that in the last seven years the state number of employees of the Ministry of Interior decreased several times, from 63 742 is currently 49 836 thousand. Souls. Changes have been provoked by various reasons, depending on the additional assigned or dropped out of such tasks or activities, in view of changes in legislation. I therefore believe that it is necessary to carry out an analysis at the moment and to create a structural-functioning new model for the work of the Ministry of Interior, which will give a clear idea of the distribution of functions, the number of employees, whether they fully meet the management objectives, as you ask, and which we place at the Ministry of Interior. I have to add that not only in this Ministry, but in a number of ministries when changing the political offices usually proceed to the so-called.................................... Let me tell you what the main functions are to then draw some conclusions that interest you and are on your question. What are our management objectives? First of all, without ordering them more important, this is the migration policy -- implementing a policy to prevent and return illegally staying foreigners, increasing border security capacity and all those issues related to illegal migration since 2013, developing in our country. Secondly, effective countering terrorism, organised crime, corruption. Developing effective programmes to prevent radicalisation and extremism, which I will also talk about in response to other questions. Police presence or domestic, conventional crime in every settlement we have said in our program. Territorial allocation of personnel resources in order to increase uniformed police units in small and medium-sized settlements, to adopt a new Private Security Act to improve the interaction between police and private structures to counter conventional crime. Adopting the Law on Volunteering, very important, stressing it as one of the tasks without saying all. It should regulate relations between volunteers and central and local authorities in overcoming the consequences of disasters and accidents, public order and so on, i.e. involvement of citizenship in these important processes and, above all, their prevention of domestic crime, the fight against terrorism. You know there's a new Anti-terrorist Act. It's all in one big task, in a row, to the Ministry of Interior. From this point of view, the changes that have been made to the legislation, I am sure, will have to be made in the structures and functions of the Ministry of Interior. Next and last but not least, not to list, building police offices to serve citizens in the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and in all district governments. The aim is for citizens to receive electronic services quickly. It's been said many times about this one-stop shop and so on. This is also a major task, I say again, without enumerating all objectives and tasks. If we take only these, they are not being performed in the best way at the moment by the Ministry of Interior. I'm not saying before that the other political offices and professional leadership that were in the Ministry didn't add anything. Everyone's done something, but over the years, it's been like this. It is you I do not want to explain it to, as you know very well and as a member of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, how many problems have been over the years and how, as if the Ministry of Interior was that unit, that Ministry where they were gathering and it usually solved the issues. I only give one example with 112. So it certainly needs such a structural-functioning model. I'm going to end by saying that we are going to assign it, not yet assigned, taking steps at the moment, trying to find and intervene in this case, because I think it's the right thing to do science, to do it a little longer than it is needed, not quickly and not in one day, but with a five, ten perspective, or maybe more years ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u124	Thank you, dear Minister. For two supplementary questions, Mr. Iankov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The functional models of organization or management suggest grouping activities according to their belonging to specific functions in relatively large organizations, such as the power office. The grouping of activities and the identification of functions implies appropriate coordination and sub-ordination of what is present in the Ministry at the moment. The formed functional model is a base for forming working groups or teams. Minister, the Ministry of Interior is working under the law of the Ministry of Interior, which is a functional law. There are designated functions of the individual units in the Ministry of Interior, and my specific additional question to you is: will there be a new law on the Ministry of Interior or will there be changes in the current law on the Ministry of Interior? Because, on the one hand, we understand that as you give priority to dialogue, you are ready at the request of the trade unions, from yesterday's statements it became clear that your leadership, which is an heir and a follower of a leadership broadcast again by the Political Party GERB, is ready to make a new law for the Ministry of Interior, that is, three amendments to the Law until now initiated by the political party GERB, two new laws as early as 2009 and 2014, and again changes to the law for the Ministry of Interior. I mean, is this attached to a model, working in teams, with a new law on the Ministry of Interior? My second question is: since you are ready to do this analysis, as you are clearly not aware, although I remember that in the last Parliament you were engaged in working at the Internal Commission and should know how the Ministry of Interior works, you obviously have not been interested to this point, you will now get acquainted, but does the duplication of activities mean that the Directorate General is fighting organised crime, which is engaging all the functions of the other units, in your opinion, should be dropped? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u126	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. For an answer, Mr. Radev, the Minister of Interior. Here you go. Three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Iankov! Will there be a new law on the Ministry of Interior? The unions said it. I do not give you an assessment of what you were in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and how much you understood of the subject, but you must know that trade unions with their Social Partnership Council is a consultative body. Nor can they make a decision. What you read there and hear it, please don't say it as the last instance of this tribune. There will be no new law on the Ministry of Interior, but there will probably be changes in it, that's for sure, not likely. If necessary, there will be a new Law. But at this point, there will be no new Law. Of course, I don't put the wagon in front of the horse, so I said that there is a functional and structurally functional model that will be made according to the rules of science and so on. If it turns out that even a new Law has to be done, we do so, but it will happen perhaps in a year's time when these representatives of science work. So do not be misled by what is said in the talks or perhaps by union representatives. This will or will not be a new Law. And whether the DGBOP will enter or exit, you know where it was and is now again in the structures of the Ministry of Interior. One of the questions over there, I don't know if it was yours, you'll hear what they've done and what they're doing. I think and I am convinced, so does the political leadership of the Ministry of Interior, that this is where it belongs and it works quite effectively. So far, we don't see any problems there, but to give you a hint or to give you more information, like when I entered the Ministry after not a long time, I immediately discovered that there are structures that duplicate and say which ones. In one place, there is a directorate that has to make public procurements and to take these words, I do not like this word, but to make public procurements and this 160 million euros of European aid or 320 million euros. lv. To make it so that they go as fast as possible we have two terms to those who need them, which will be bought with them. Similar to this directorate there is another directorate, similar structure, making public procurements again. Two capacities in one place, I'm talking about large capacities because the various regional directorates of the Ministry of Interior have them in places, so here's a duplication, just the primavista we've seen. And we're not going to hurt, because we're not the best in the country who deal with such models, not to go into details. If you want, I can tell you this, there's a mechanical and organic model, I've also dealt with staff management, it's not the job of such a minister, not the political team, not anyone... The Ministry of Interior has tried, tried to examine the structure themselves, so we will assign it to those who are involved in science and can do it in the best way possible. So we're not taking GDBOP out of the Ministry of Interior. That was the second question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u128	Thank you, Minister. For the treatment of Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u129	Dear Minister, your contradictions. You're waiting for a functional model, and you're definitely stating what's going to be excluded from it. I am under the impression that you have not gone into depth for the tasks you are putting and how they are performed by the structural units in the Ministry of Interior. On the one hand, you say that you are dialog, on the other hand you do not want to hear what the employees of the Ministry of Interior tell you. You are also ready with what you have said and with the new laws you are planning to submit for private security activities and for volunteering, to privatize activities by the Ministry of Interior in a private sector, to privatize the Security Sector! Therefore, your dialogue with regard to the remuneration for overcoming this tension in the imbalance between remuneration in the Ministry of Interior waters and to this logic that it is unattractive should not be willing by those who work in the system in order to be able to privatize activities. And you are clearly a continuation of the first steps taken by Rumyana Bachvarova. That you do not understand the work of the system and are ready in the overall concept of management to transfer activities into a private sector, speaks very badly about the future of this system! The fact that you are saying that clearly a state need has fallen, you clearly do not understand and are not ready to fulfill the commitment that the Prime Minister has taken! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You have been entrusted with ensuring peace and safety in every place of the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u130	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. We move on to the second question to the Minister of Interior. A question from the MP Miglena Doykova Alexandrova about the hybrid war in Bulgaria by terrorist groups. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova,
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, we have recently witnessed bloody terrorist acts in Europe. Jihadist groups are urging constant execution of murderous acts in the territory of Christian countries. The responsibility for such types of acts is borne by the Islamic State, which it promotes and this is one way to recruit new and new supporters through the Internet. There is also a concern that terrorist attacks are being carried out by rapidly radicalized people as a result of the propaganda of terrorist groups in social networks. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: is there a hybrid war in our country of terrorist groups, and especially of the Islamic State, through social networks? How do you counteract it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. For an answer, Mr. Radev, the Minister of Interior. Here you go, Mr. Radev, three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u133	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, countering terrorist and xenophobic propaganda is carried out in principle by the State Agency of National Security. The employees of the Ministry of Interior, who provide partnership and assistance with the National Security Agency as necessary, are part of the General Directorate of Organized Crime. In my reply to you, I will explain their actions on matters that concern them. Currently, the Directorate General for Organized Crime has not established internet sites related to the State of Islam addressed specifically to the Bulgarian Internet users. It is important to note that the main social networks themselves maintain a policy to intercept illegal content and extremist material. At European level, a unit has been set up and operated, which is called the "Internet Referral".The main activity of which is to monitor, capture, reduce and terminate the extreme content of materials and violence on the Internet. The unit's employees use their unique language capabilities to reduce terrorist and extreme propaganda, for example, from Al-Qaeda and from the ISIS. Over 11,000 messages or about 31 online platforms in eight different languages have been identified in the last one year of the European unit that I mentioned. This is not included and there is no platform for Bulgaria. The social media platforms and Internet service providers successfully intercepted over 91% and the exact number is 91.4% of the reported illegal content. It is extremely important that this section of Europol in the European Union is a trusted partner and cooperates with Member States, including our country. As for the work of the staff in the Ministry of Interior to secure cyber security, I inform you that in the structure of the Directorate General "Countership with Organized Crime" a specialized sector works, which is a supporting unit in the activities of this section of Europol. The sector is part of the National Coordination Centre established and functioning on the territory of Bulgaria, and is part of the General Directorate of Organized Crime Combat, which is part of the Ministry of Interior. In addition, I would like to emphasise that, in addition to the European security services, the General Directorate of Organized Crime is also maintaining a lasting partnership with the US services in combating cybercrime. Since 2010, an FBI agent has been visiting the Directorate for various periods, which is the direct contact between the two services in solving cyber terrorism or radical content related to which they wrote on the Internet. Cybercrime is also in place as one of the main objectives of the Ministry of Interior's activities for 2017, including the General Directorate of Organized Crime. Moreover, we have to boast about this in Bulgaria is one of the fastest Internets. Those who travel abroad across Europe then understand and enjoy how fast the Internet is in Bulgaria, so the danger exists. I've just reported to you what the measures are and what structures we're taking them with at the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u134	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Yeah, what you're taking as measures and what you put out in your answer sounds pretty good. I am asking you this question for a reason because just over a year ago the services visited one of the Bulgarian political leaders and told him that there is a danger of an attack on him because some lone wolf called on the Internet to kill him. The services came, they said this thing, we found the page to actually see what's going on and what's going on. What bothered me was that a week after we knew about this, this urging to kill a leader of political power in Bulgaria was not removed from the Internet. It's just a private matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. A hole, Mr. Secretary? You won't use it. We are moving on to the third issue to the Minister of Home Affairs. A question from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov on the full functioning of the integrated security system at the border with Turkey. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u137	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, Mr Minister! Recently you inspected the border and control of its conservation in the area of Sredets and the border crossing Malko Tarnovo. According to media coverage, you have become acquainted with the organization of work and the interaction between border police and servicemen. From the press centre of the Ministry of Interior, the officials of the Directorate-General of Border Police raised the question of the rapid recovery of the full work of the integrated border surveillance system. The Minister is committed to this as soon as possible. Minister, when will there be a fully established and functioning integrated security system at the border with the Republic of Turkey? What is the organisation for the work of the DGGS in the sections with an integrated border security system and in the sections with only an engineering obstruction facility or missing one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u138	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Radev, the Minister of Interior has the floor for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u139	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Yankov! The integrated surveillance system established so far along the border with the Republic of Turkey is made up of two different parts, built in different years and under different contracts. It follows from this that the time limits for the procedures to be carried out in order to maintain the system are different. For the first part of the integrated surveillance system currently works a commission that evaluates the submitted offers by companies with a view to concluding a maintenance contract, which expired. The second, majority of the system is still under guarantee maintenance conditions and when its deadline expires, a system contract should be declared. Apart from this, with funding from the Grants Agreement of the Homeland Security Fund "Emergency measures," 2016, it is envisaged to expand the integrated monitoring system of the Bulgarian-Turkish border by building sensor lines for monitoring in those sections, they are like windows of this second part, where there are no such built. In March this year, a public procurement was announced, but was suspended due to a complaint lodged with the Commission for Protection of Competition. In view of this, there is a repeat announcement of the contract, and we expect the opinion of the European Commission to extend the deadline for this grant money... you know that it is 160 million euros. I reported at my meeting with the European Commissioner for Migration, Home Affairs and Citizenship Dimitris Avramopoulos, at which I presented the request of the Bulgarian state to extend these deadlines. You know that one is by the end of September and the other is by the beginning of January. For now we have an understanding if we show good work on the absorption of resources. It should be clarified that, following the implementation of the said activity under this Grant Agreement, the Directorate-General for Border Police will have three separate parts of an integrated system, the first, second and the one that will be carried out further on the windows for which I said, where there are not, which should then be with a new procurement, united in a single platform. On the second part of your question, the organisation of the activities of the employees, the Border Police, in the sections of the already established integrated monitoring system, I stress, the organisation of the activity, will address you this way, for technical monitoring of the respective territories and the acquisition of preliminary information about the cooking or already committed illegal crossing of the state border. As a result of the information acquired, the border authorities of neighbouring countries shall be notified, the endangered directions shall be blocked or measures shall be taken to establish and retain at maximum proximity to the border of those who are able to cross. About the details of what is the organisation of the work of the Directorate-General for Border Security at the border ask me at the Internal Commission at an open meeting, or if you want, here at a closed meeting. I'm not gonna give any more details on the air. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the Ministry of Interior is actively interacting with the Turkish border authorities. It has been built and operated for a long time the non-working Trilateral Coordination Centre, which is distributed to the border crossing point Captain Andreevo and this centre works in continuous mode, allowing rapid and operational information on each individual case of crossing or attempt to cross the border. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u140	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Yankov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u141	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues, Mr Minister! According to the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the National Assembly asks a question and the Minister answers? My question is specific: When will there be a built and functioning integrated security system at the border? When? The facts you're reporting, we know them. With regard to the second question, you have successfully avoided the answer, and indeed the time is little for the overall organization, but give an assessment: Does the way in which the work is organised where there is an engineering obstruction facility and where it is with an integrated protection system and in relation to the gaps that the integrated protection itself has, as you yourself said, that one part of the border has expired for maintenance? But for example, Minister, in connection with your work, can you tell how many dogs are used to guard our border with Turkey? How much? In the framework of your statements, you have stated that there are groups involved in the illegal crossings that are followed in depth in our territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u142	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. For an answer, Mr. Radev, the Minister of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u143	Madam Chairman, Mr. Yankov! You're asking me when? I have told you what the state of implementation of the Public Procurement Act is.. depends on the specific date. Am I satisfied with that? I'll never be satisfied, I guess, and you'll all want to better keep the border and possibly better be from today, if you can next week or next month, even better, and that depends on money. I told you what the money was. If you've listened to me carefully, I've told her what the problems are. I didn't just go into details about where there were gaps on the border, where there was no video surveillance and where there was, and thank you for asking me again because I wasn't going to answer. But of course it doesn't satisfy us. I was there myself, and I saw there were windows missing. It's done like this on a project. That's why I said the third part would cover these.. I express myself conditionally, windows in places where there is no such video surveillance, sensors and so on. If it does, it's building a physical fence that we've been talking about for so long. It's built, by the way. Yesterday I was told that the GPS coordinates are ready and the entire fence has been accepted by the Ministry of Interior and there are 5 km, but I guess they'll do it very quickly, so that's the answer to that question. And don't ask me specifically about the dogs. I was there, and I said, "There will be a team of dogs to track them down. How many dogs are there? Ask me next time, I'll check, now I don't know how many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u144	Thank you, dear Minister. We are moving on to the last question by the National Representative Krasimir Yankov on measures for the establishment and detention of persons supporting the illegal passage through Bulgaria of third-country nationals. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the Ministry of Interior is working to uncover criminal groups dealing with human trafficking and money laundering from this activity, and you should be familiar with this activity of the Ministry of Interior. What are the measures of the Ministry of Interior for the establishment and detention of persons involved in a network and/or independently supporting the illegal passage through the Republic of Bulgaria of illegal passage? How many detainees and how many indictees have been accused of materials by the Ministry of Interior since the beginning of the year? By the way, in this activity and in the performance of specific tasks, police dogs are used, and you know it perfectly. However, when there is security at the state border, the use of this integrated protection system, which includes a complex of measures and mobile groups. Along with technical equipment involved well-trained physical employees of the Border Police, then we have a complex approach and there will probably be less sewerage. Please include this part in the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. For an answer, Mr. Radev, the Minister of Interior. Here you go, Mr. Radev. Three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, first of all, allow me to highlight the difference between human trafficking and illegal human trafficking across the border. The victims of trafficking are people who have been deceived and forced into another country, and therefore this criminal activity differs from the Penal Code. Your question concerns the illegal translation and crossing of people across the border. It is known that most migrants who arrived in Europe were helped by the so-called canal guys. In fulfilling their commitments as a Member State of the European Union and in order to respond adequately to the migration pressure on our country, a number of measures have been taken in the Ministry of Interior for the last two years to assist and counteract the illegal transfer or passage of foreign nationals across the state border, both in the direction of Europe. First of all, the Directorate-General of the National Police (National Police) has created a sector of crimes related to the illegal residence and passage of foreigners into the country (Criminal Police Department) and their activities are carried out in close cooperation with the exchange of information between the specialized police units of the Ministry of Interior in the capital and the regional departments of the Ministry of Interior. Secondly, in the latest amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act in 2016 to the competence of the General Directorate of Organized Crime and Organized Crime, I quote the text: "Countering the crimes related to the cross-border transfer of individuals or groups of people, as well as the support of foreigners for residence and passage of the country. A new sector has been established in the structure of the Directorate, whose employees are working on the obligations that have been replaced by this Law. And thirdly, a coordination centre for countering illegal migration has been established in the structure of the Directorate-General for Border Police. The unit is formed by employees of various structures of the Ministry of Interior, related to the countering of the Migration Act, which provide interaction and assistance with the immediate exchange of information on issues related to the migration situation. In other words, the Ministry of Interior has developed working mechanisms and has applied the interinstitutional approach to active interaction between the structures of the Ministry of Interior and the other institutions involved, such as the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency for Refugees, the Specialized Prosecutor's Office and others. Last but not least, we also have enhanced international cooperation, carried out at one point in common and specific information with foreign partner services, such as.................................................................................... In a previous reply, I also provided such information. From the beginning of the year until the beginning of June, which you specifically ask about for the five months, a total of 92 pre-trial proceedings under art. Art. 281, Art. 281 282 of the penal code for illegal transfer of people across the border to support illegal residence in the country. According to information from the Prosecutor's Office for the same period 171 accused persons were handed over to a court of which 132 persons were convicted of crimes under the same article. 280-281. That is, somewhere around 80-81 percent of those individuals we have betrayed are condemned for the popular word "canalistry." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u148	Thank you, dear Minister. For your reply, Mr. Yankov, please come in for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u149	Dear Madam President, colleagues, dear Minister! Thank you. In your reply, you admitted that the Ministry of Interior, although they are structured units and thanks to the prosecution, there is a concrete counteraction of the sewerage. First, you should be aware, and if you are listening carefully to Prime Minister Borisov, you will understand that this obstruction has been initiated as such, in connection with the threats at this time. The possibility of invading the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of large groups who should have an obstacle. At the moment, it is clear that illegals are small groups of 10 to 20 people, and that is my specific question. It is also related to the possibility of securing this security with the integrated protection of the border itself, but you yourself said that since the beginning of the year there have been 171 indictees, 132 convicted, and you should admire the work of the prosecution yourself. By the way, you're probably familiar with it and you don't mention it, or you're not familiar with it, but thanks to these specialized units between the prosecution and the Ministry of Interior there's a reaction, there's an intersection of the sewerage, so I wish for a more effective work of the prosecution. In fact, you have just shown that when the Ministry of Interior fails, it has not been given the specific tasks to be carried out, its employees are not motivated, we rely on the prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control of the Minister of Interior Mr. Valentin Radev. There's no other question. I'm sorry, I'm distracted, Mr. Radev. Two minutes for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u151	Thank you. Mr. Iankov, you want to attack the Ministry of Interior and I don't understand why you hate the Ministry of Interior so much. Now I am telling you what the Ministry of Interior has done: 92 pre-trial proceedings and we have given them to the prosecution. The D.A. didn't see it on the Internet, Ivan didn't tell it from a village I don't know who you are. Where did you see the Ministry of Interior didn't work? They then made these realizations. Why should we thank the D.A.? I thank her, of course, because these are the structures in the country, but you probably know it. Are you making a political provocation? [[Reply.]] The Ministry of Interior has done its job on the basis of these people's 92 realizations have done, and they are not one person at a time there. You heard the numbers too. What kind of swing and what kind of...?! I don't understand what you have against the Ministry of Interior. I think I'm clear enough. I told you the numbers, interpret them correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u152	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Now let's thank the Interior Minister for participating in today's control. We are moving on to questions to Minister Boyl Banov, Minister of Culture. Question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev on finalizing the project for National Strategy for Cultural Development. Here you are, Mr. Mirchev. Two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u153	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! In early 2012 the Ministry of Culture started working on a project for the National Strategy for Cultural Development. There are 27 expert groups from all sectors of our cultural life. At the end of June 2012 the result was 19 material analysis and 19 material vision and goals from all expert groups. In March 2012, a monitoring committee was appointed, including internal coordinators, representatives of the Ministry of Culture, and external coordinators, representatives of civil society organizations. The efforts of so many experts who have worked free of charge in September 2012 were provided to a non-governmental organisation (NGO), an observatory on the economy of culture, to summarize the texts and turn them into a ready-made draft of a Strategy to be presented for public discussion. For five years now, the Ministry of Culture has not been able to get back this final text. In the past the National Assembly Mr. Rashidov answered in this way the question I asked. My question to you, Minister, is are you planning to establish a working group to finalize the draft National Strategy for Cultural Development, including what time period do you intend to set it up? Which of the management team from the Ministry of Culture will be directly responsible for finalising this project? What is the time range for providing the final projects of the National Strategy for Culture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u154	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. For an answer, Mr. Boil Banov, Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u155	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Mirchev, honourable Members of Parliament! The adoption of a National Strategy for the Development of Arts, Cultural and Creative Industries, Cultural Heritage and Cultural Tourism is a priority in the management program and in the activities of the Ministry of Culture. In order to finalise the project for the National Strategy for the Development of Arts, Cultural Heritage, Cultural and Creative Industries and Cultural Tourism in the Ministry of Culture, a working group will be formed by the end of June this year. A formal notification procedure for all creative unions, academic institutions and non-governmental organisations operating in the field of culture has already been launched, requesting that experts be proposed to take part in the working group on the project. The Ministry of Culture is ready to broadcast its representatives, who will be included in the working group to finalise the project. As directly responsible by the management team of the Ministry will be appointed Deputy Minister Rumen Dimitrov. It is envisaged that the time range for presenting the final draft of the National Strategy for Cultural Development will be by the end of 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u156	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u157	Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. This strategy has been expected for five years now. A great deal of hard work has been done. Unfortunately, so far due to a number of obstacles, the information collected has not been completed. I'm glad you've been taking this problem to heart from the start. I really hope that at the end of the year we will have this Strategy because it is important for culture, for the future of culture in Bulgaria. As far as I'm concerned, you've also dealt with the Mental Law, the Chitalishtes Act. This also gives me hope because in the previous National Assembly for a period of two years the legislative initiative of your predecessor was close or equal to zero. Again, culture is out-of-party. We must do our best to start from having our own strategy. We'll keep an eye on the work. I expect to see it in the Committee on Culture very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. A hole, Mr. Secretary? You don't want to. Thank you for the participation of the Minister of Culture Mr. Banov in today's parliamentary control. Colleagues, I am giving 30 minutes off, and then we will continue with questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u159	Colleagues, we are continuing with Parliamentary control. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nikolay Nankov will be in charge. The first question is from the National Representative Manol Genov on the implementation of the Water Act in relation to the implementation of the reform in the Water and Canal sector and the approval of the business plans of the water operators for the new regulatory period 2017-2021. Here you are, Mr. Genov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u160	Madam President, honourable Members! My question, Minister, is this. According to the provisions of art. 198q of the Water Act and for the provision of publicity and transparency in the implementation of the activities of the provision of water services, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works establishes and maintains a Single Information System for Water Services and Register of Water and Water Operators Associations. In accordance with art. 198th, para. 2 of the Water Act, the Register under art. 198r, para. 2 contains information about: the separate territories, associations of water, water operators and persons under art. 198o, para. Six, operating in the separate territory. In another article, Article 2 (1) (a) (ii) is replaced by the following: 198u of the Water Act, the requirements for the order for submission of applications by water operators for registration in the Register and the order for deletion of water operators from the Register are set out. In accordance with art. 198x of the Water Act, the terms and conditions for the creation and maintenance of the Unified Information System and of the Register under art. 198q is determined by a regulation of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. At present, no regulation has been adopted and the register under the same Article of the Water Act is not available. On the website of the Ministry was published information on 6 April this year about water operators with separate territories, which does not represent a register of water water within the meaning of the member of the Water Act quoted several times by me. When will this decree be a fact and you will fulfill your duties as Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u161	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. For an answer, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nankov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u162	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, with the Law for amendment and supplement of the Water Act, Section V has been created - A single information system for water services, a register of associations of water and water operators, which the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has a commitment to create and maintain to create up-to-date, detailed and publicly available information about the main entities in the water sector and the water and water associations operators, of course with the global purpose of supporting water management and control and sewerage, as well as to facilitate the spatial representation of the activities of planning, reporting and control of investments in the industry. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is developing documentation for public procurement. You know this is a project under which we are beneficiaries of the Operational Program "Environment," an order with subject "Creating a Single Water Information System and a register of water operators and associations of water and water transport systems, i.e. two information systems. The public procurement is provided for in the implementation of the project "Supporting efficiency, management and institutional capacity in the water supply sector." I have already mentioned the funding under the Operational Programme "Environment" 2014-2020, in which the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is a beneficiary. The implementation of the Single Water and Water Supply Information System and the Register of Water Operators and Water Associations for us is essential for the implementation of the objectives set in the Water and Water Management Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria for the 10-year period 2014 2023 and in particular for the provision of publicity, transparency, efficiency of water operators in the implementation of the activities of the water supply services. According to the article quoted by you. 198x of the Water Act, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works' commitment is to regulate by regulation the conditions and procedures for establishing and maintaining the Unified Information System of the Register of Associations of Water and Water Operators. In the process of preparing the technical assignment for the Single Information System for the Water Services and Register of Water and Water Associations are specified the basic parameters and the links between them concerning the terms, procedures and manner of establishing and maintaining the Single Information System and the Register under art. 198q of the Water Act, which should be subject precisely to the Ordinance under art. 198x of the Water Act, such as the scope of data with the information system, the responsibilities for maintaining up-to-date reliable information, the levels of access of different types of users, as well as the types of references to be generated. I therefore believe that, at this stage, it is not necessary to regulate regulatory specific rules for electronic services, because the purpose of the Single Water Information System and the Register of Water Operators and Water Associations is namely to provide information and publicity rather than public provision of electronic administrative services. In relation to the foregoing, as well as to the Law on Electronic Governance and its Regulations, I believe that the conditions and procedures to be determined by the regulation under art. 198x of the Water Act is fully clarified by the technical assignment for the award of the contract and their regulatory designation is not necessary. Therefore, the Ministry will initiate a proposal in a short time to amend the Water Act, with which art. 198x of the Water Act to be dropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u163	Thank you, dear Mr. Nankov. Come in for a cue, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I can't say I'm very pleased with your answer, but it's those letters we put in this article. 198, I was one of the opponents when the Law was passed. I explained at the time that this was unfulfilled and inappropriate. I'm glad that you've come to that conclusion, and our opinions in time have found the golden section and have gone underground. However, look at whether other members should not drop out, because the lack of a register, you know, makes it difficult for water operators to approve their business plans and their prices in the future to be approved, as well as their investment programmes. Twenty-seven Waters have contracts with associations, however, 23 companies do not have contracts. And in the sense of the law, when they don't, you realize they're not water operators? You have to come out of this case, which is in another article, I think it was art. 198o. So not only did I, but let's see with the letter in this article what we're going to do. I hope you will quickly take operational measures to change legislation, because really not improving business plans and blocking their examination by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission can lead to other upheavals in already, as I often mention, the drowning water water reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u165	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, I will, respectively, call for both expertise and support in the Chamber of the proposed changes. I'll take the note, not only art. 198x of the Water Act. Really so detailed texts in art. 198 not only are not in a normal manner a mandatory part of the body of a law, such as the Water Act, but on the contrary, they are subject to optimization. We will deal with this, but I say again with the support of the MPs. You have touched on a subject about pricing and business plans and investment programmes to them, respectively the requests for prices that water companies have currently drawn up. Different companies are in different procedures for public discussions and, respectively, for protection at a price before the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Not so much art. 198o, perhaps the listeners and viewers will be confused in this regulatory regulation, you and I are talking more like experts, but not so much the problem in the Law, maybe others are the reasons. I don't want to comment on them from this high tribune. You know that two regulations have been adopted - one for regulating the price, the other for the quality of the services in which this is my personal opinion, and the Ministry, which I represent, in a very detailed incision, requires betting both on investments and, respectively, the programs..... the financial and technical services of the water companies. Perhaps this is where the collision occurs between the ability of the water operators to meet the requirements and expectations of the commissioners, but this is not a topic that you and I can solve. The Commission has its regulatory framework and follows it, which, respectively, water operators [[the President signals that time has run out]] must reflect and implement in their business plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u167	Thank you, dear Minister. Second question from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov on opportunities to expand the road I-1 from the quarter. "Knyazhevo" to road node "Daskalovo". km 276+162 to km 286+847, with a total length of 10,685 km. Here you are, Mr. Vladimirov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u168	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! According to traffic cams on route I-1 of the square. "Knyazhevo" to road node "Daskalovo".. km 276+162 to km 286+847, with a total length of 10,685 km, the average 24-hour annual intensity of the car traffic for 2016 is 30,814 vehicles passed, including passenger cars, buses, cargo, medium-sized vessels and freight with trailers and motorcycles. This shows that the route is one of the busiest roads in the country. A particularly big problem is the traffic jams in rush hour and the holiday days of the columns formed are kilometers away. In addition, the road pavement in Dragichevo district is heavily compromised, with numerous open-air cracks and deep diggings. The banks are overgrown, the drains in many places are backed up or wiped out. Dear Minister, in your interview with the national media you outlined your work in the road infrastructure sector as your main priority. You have named the roads from the Republican Road Network to which your efforts will be directed. Road I-1 of sq. "Knyazhevo" to the road node "Daskalovo" was unfortunately not among them. In this regard, my question to you is: do you provide for the development of a project for the construction of a four-band road I-1 of a square. "Knyazhevo" to road node "Daskalovo" with a total length of 10,685 km?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u169	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. For an answer, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nankov. Here you go. Three minutes for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vladimirov, there is no project for a four-band road in the section of the district of Plovdiv for 2017 in the Investment Programme of the Agency. "Knyazhevo" to road node "Daskalovo" with a length of about 10 kilometers. I am frankly in charge of you, for 2017 no such project has been set up. For this section there is a ready technical rehabilitation project, however, since 2015. The project covers the section of sq. "Knyazhevo" to the road node "Daskalovo" by kilometerage of road I-6, coincided with road I-1 in this section. In addition to the construction and installation works aimed at permanently restoring the operational state of the road, the project envisages the introduction of a reversible movement by building a traffic light system in existing belt sections. The introduction of reversible traffic through the construction of traffic lights in the three-band sections provides that traffic management is to be carried out by means of traffic lights and AC road signs, which allows the operation mode to comply with specific traffic conditions, especially on weekends, weekends, taking into account the presence of road accidents, fire of motor vehicles or an object along the road, aviaries of vehicles, passage of cars with special traffic modes, off-roads carrying dangerous goods, vehicles, pavement repairs or other exceptional circumstances. In order to ensure the pedestrian movement, pedestrian traffic systems are provided, which will miss the pedestrians only on their request. The implementation of the project can take place after the cost of construction and construction works and their planning in the API budget during the 2018 season. With a view to ensuring traffic safety, we will continue to take care of the road according to budget support. In 2016 to improve the state of the section of the district "Knyazhevo" to the road hub "Daskalovo" was renovated in compromised areas on the pavement, drainage and landscape events, replacement of deformed containment systems "those are the boards, and restoration of horizontal marking. The activities are of a total value of more than 220 thousand. lv. with VAT. From the beginning of this year to the time for repair work on the flooring in the section mentioned by you, respectively, by me, have invested almost 200,000. lv. BGN 193 955 The other types of activities are planned to be implemented in the coming months according to the budgetary resources. In order to facilitate traffic and increase road safety during the period of holiday days, a reversible movement shall be introduced in the three-band sections of the road. What is also provided for under the Technical project for road rehabilitation with specific traffic lights. Currently it is carried out, respectively with restrictive pillars, two lanes to leave Sofia on the last working day and the first holiday day, and two lanes to enter Sofia on the last holiday day. If necessary, this temporary movement organisation shall also be introduced in other periods, in coordination with the road police sector at the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u171	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Vladimirov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u172	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Nankov, unfortunately, it is not good that it is not set for 2017. This is one of the busiest road sections of the Republic of Bulgaria's road network. It is much busier than the Lulin highway, busier than the Hemus highway. It is related to the Trakiya highway. I also said at the beginning of my question that huge columns are formed on a daily basis, they start from "Daskalovo" and end at Vladaya. I hope you mentioned that there is a project ready to start a complete rehabilitation at the beginning of 2018 because it has not been carried out for more than 15 years. There are quite a number of serious road accidents on the road. I hope that's not another promise, because I've put it in previous parliaments. I had the assurance of previous colleagues that it would actually begin a complete renovation and expansion. I didn't hear from you about expanding this section, but I hope at least a reverse movement will be put in place, because traffic, as I said just now, on this section is exceptional.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u173	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. You want to take an attitude? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u174	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vladimirov, not just like you, yes, it is normal to live with hope, but we are making concrete actions and efforts. I have stated many times that not only do we place the road infrastructure as a priority, its safety, security, rehabilitation of existing sections, building new sections, as in this case your question, even on a four-track track, with the current three-band, but you know what is the resource of the Road Infrastructure Agency, what are the needs of the sector. Therefore, I have always argued that until we enter the system of tolls, electronic wineries, you will ask such questions. I will answer you. But I will never, in fullness, answer all your questions positively, as there are needs in Vidin and Dobrich and Yambol and Kyustendil. Of course, this is one of the busiest, you correctly said, sections of our Republican road network. To a certain extent, we could even say that the good project for the highway is being depreciated on entry into Sofia, because we know what traffic jams, what queues are coming, especially on weekends. But that's why we're creating the temporary organization, the one I mentioned, with the reverse movement. The fact is, we're talking here about a Project for a complete rehabilitation of the existing route, not a four-band extension. There's six million in there. BGN, I forgot to mention, under the Operational Program "Environment for strengthening the landslides" after Vladaya. Then we'll talk about a complete road closure if this landslide is compromised to the extent that it violates normal traffic along route I-1. With the introduction of tolls, I am optimistic that even in 2018 a rehabilitation of the road, respectively, will have enough national public resources, without relying on European funds loan instruments pa realization and this important section. The fact is, I will repeat that it is one of the most important not only in Transport Corridor No 4, but for the entire Southwest, of course, and for the population of Sofia Municipality. In this connection, the other day I held a meeting with the chief architect of Sofia, with the management of the Directorate "Architecture and Urban Planning" and to comment on the slightly more global theme for the extension of the ring traffic with the corresponding options that we could look at, for the loading of traffic, for the strengthening of traffic on the motorway "Lulyn" with respectively the construction of new parking spaces, new parking lots, the continuation of the metrometer to the ring road in the quarter. Lyulin, respectively to the construction of the section to the nearest road from Blvd. "Bulgaria" next to the highway "Lyulin" with the planned facilities "Estacada" and tunnels in this section We apply a complex approach. As far as we can go. After that we will have enough financial resources and the commitment from us has it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u175	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works by the MPs Valentin Mirchov Milushev and Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov, about the surveying of the pavement of the road section Dupnitsa Samokov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u176	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! During the last survey of the pavement of the road section Samokov Dupnitsa, it was found that the road section did not possess the necessary carrying capacity. This time it's part of the Republican Road Network E-79. Traffic in this section is extremely intense, including heavy goods vehicles, and there are prerequisites for traffic accidents. In connection with the increased civil tension, please answer the following questions: does the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works provide for the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, including the Road Infrastructure Agency, the separation of financial resources necessary for the complete repair of the section? Within what deadlines can citizens of the districts of Sofia and Kyustendil expect the repair of this section and would you commit to solving the problems as soon as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u177	Thank you, dear Mr. Milushev. For an answer, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Milushev and Mr. Ivanov! The Republican road II-62 from Dupnitsa to Samokov passes through the territory of the two districts of Kyustendilska and Sofia. The opinion of the experts of the Agency is that at this stage it is not appropriate to plan for an ongoing repair in a comprehensive way. I am mentioning ongoing repairs, preventive repairs, as the two sections, namely Dupnitsa Clisura, with a total length of 16.8 km in Kyustendil district, and Klisura. Samokov, with a total length of 15,71 km in Sofia district, have prepared technical projects for rehabilitation and partial reconstruction. In order to complete the repair, it is not an ongoing repair, it is precautionary and the value for the implementation is 39 million. lv. with VAT. However, two small sections require the preparation of an EIA report, an environmental impact assessment, and strengthening estrangement procedures, as a third lane of the movement canvas is provided for, something that will ease traffic. I think that in the meetings we have held in previous periods with the public of Dupnitsa specifically, and on Samokov, the third band is posed as a major issue and, of course, as a commitment of the Road Infrastructure Agency. In view of the importance of the second-class road for the intensive movement of motor vehicles, including the Dupnitsa route, Samokov, in view of its deteriorating situation, the site is included For the Sofia region I can tell what has been done at the moment, but these are pallet measures, these are current repairs. Within this year, a little over 150 thousand are currently provided in the budget. lv. on the territory of Kyustendil district, which has been renovated in the most critical regions, and even a little more than 200 thousand. BGN, will be allocated to the section in Sofia region again for ongoing renovation, but these are palliative measures until approval of the funding, rather than the financing, but at the conclusion of the public procurement under the Operational Program "Regions in growth 2014 " 2020"................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u179	Here you go, Mr. Milushev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer! I am glad that under the project "Dupnitsa" the road is included in the program next year. This time it is extremely important not only for the local population of Kyustendilska and Sofia districts, respectively Dupnitsa and Samokov, this time it is also extremely important for all guests and tourists who wish to visit this amazing end from the Bulgarian country. I would point out that in this part of the country are located such sites as the resort complex "Borovets", "Malyovitsa", "Belchin" with "Tsari Mali City", "The Seven Rila Lakes", Sapareva Banya "the only geyser in Bulgaria. I would be happy for this project to really happen next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u181	And thank you, Mr. Milushev. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? No. We move on to the next question to Minister Nikolai Nankov. The question is from the MPs Dragomir Velkov Stoynev and Nikola Iliev Dinkov about the extremely serious emergency condition of the Republican Road III-559 Polish Gradets Mr. Dinkov, are you going to develop the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Our question is about the extremely severe emergency condition of the third-class road 559 "Softrem village" Topolovgrad, Haskovo District, near the village of Polski Gradets, Stara Zagora region. Dear Minister, the issue of this Republican road has been repeatedly raised in the Forty-fourth and Third National Assembly by the management of the municipality of Topolovgrad and by MPs. The road is in a miserable state. The residents of Topolovgrad are deprived of access to the town of Stara Zagora, where are located the headquarters of many state organizations, as well as the University Clinic for qualified medical care. On this road they travel every day more than 900 people from Topolovgrad Municipality to TPP Maritsa Iztok.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The difficulties experienced by teachers and students traveling daily from villages to the school of the municipality are outstanding. The schedule for classes is difficult because sometimes they have to travel in the dark part of the day. This time on a daily basis is a prerequisite for many road accidents and damage to motor vehicles. The fact that there are several stops to pass through the fields is also clear evidence of the poor condition of the road to avoid traveling along the so-called "republikan road." On this issue there are many written and oral promises from both the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the relevant institutions that are responsible for road infrastructure, and these documents are within me. However, solving the problem is postponed for future periods. In addition, there is a draft and project documentation drawn up that are located in the Road Infrastructure Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u183	Mr. Dinkov, you're running out of time. Guide to completion!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u184	In this regard, my question is also: Is the third-class road being repaired and when will this happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u185	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dinkov, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency, we have taken the necessary steps with a view to finding a solution to the problem. I won't make commitments respectfully, which I won't fulfill. I'm also about to see the documents you have on former ones. I confirm the commitment made to ensure good road communication to the local population working in the mining and electricity industry in this area. That is why the API has commissioned a technical project to repair two sections of the road that you are quoting, with a total length of 23 km from the third-class road. The technical project is ready, the assessment of compliance of the project is pending, according to the Law on Construction in the Area and the valuation of the planned construction works. The road from the village of Polski gradets Topolovgrad village of Ustrem is included in the prioritized list of road sections of the Operational Program "Regions in growth 2014 " 2020." Currently, the agreed financial resource under the programme with the assigned 24 plus 3 "27 road sections" is exhausted. We are looking for opportunities to provide funds for sites from the Agency's budget next year. To increase the collection of road funds to be reinvested in road infrastructure and to increase road safety, the introduction of a mixed system is envisaged for what I always answer for payment when passing through the Republican road network: a toll charge for heavy goods cars and electronic wineries. At the amount of fees charged by the Agency, the Road Infrastructure (RIT) is estimated to be around 30 million. lv. on an annual basis at present, we will have almost more resources as early as the first year. So not just the current road section, but all the others you ask questions about, which I see with everyday ones, now happened with their weekly visits to different parts of Bulgaria will be rehabilitated. The fact is, however, that some of the questions should not be asked only to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, respectively to the Road Infrastructure Agency and also to those companies that have appealed for a year and a half to launch it. According to the Supreme Administrative Court, they sabotage, chicane, even abuse, sabotaging the introduction of precisely a toll system, which will bring sufficient resources to reinvest in adequate and quality support not only to the first-class, second-class, but also to the third-class roads of the Republican road network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u187	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Dinkov, come in for treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u188	Dear Minister, there have been answers on this issue since 2010 from the Road Infrastructure Agency, from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, and everyone remains convinced that almost next year the repair and rehabilitation of this road will begin, but this is not happening. In the past, the National Assembly Mrs Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, also replied that this time it is planned to be renovated. Now I understand that this is postponed for next year, and God forbid it is. When we talk about a demographic crisis, when we talk about border areas, one of the most important factors not to depopulate these areas is good infrastructure. I will continue to ask until this question finds a solution so that the residents of Topolovgrad can use this time to go to work for other social services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u189	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Mr. Minister, do you want the floor for the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Dinkov, it is your right to really be proactive, to protect the interest of the local community, to ask questions. It is our duty to provide a quality service and to maintain the Republican road network truly in a satisfactory condition. I've read what the realities are at the moment. They're not from today, they're not from yesterday, they're not from the last five years. About a billion needs on an annual basis at 300 million. lv revenue. Three hundred million leva revenue in the wine system! Even with the high price of the wine at BGN 97. Anniversary vintages, for cars! But ask not only the minister, ask your colleagues from Vidin, Vratsa, from Montana, from Dobrich, from all over Northern Bulgaria, and from all over southern Bulgaria: are there no such road sections in their constituencies? Unfortunately for us there is, and I mentioned what the toolbox is, what is the approach that will give a solution to this problem. You know that European funding is short. It's 300 million. lv. in the framework of the Programme "Rehabilitation of road sections of a second-class and third-class road network that connect the TNT network to a transport network, and everything else is through the API budget or loan instruments. Our main goal is: the maximum rapid deployment of the tol system; on billions of revenue on an annual basis and then be sure that this issue will bounce back in time, as the road will be in perfect functional condition. Palliative measures specifically for the third-class road you are commenting on, from the village of Ustrem to Topolovgrad, the current rehabilitation, the current renovation with palliative measures that we are really trying to do... You know API policy is not a policy of patches, repairs per piece, but a complete reconstruction and good maintenance. That's how it has to be forward in time. It's not gonna do any good, it's not gonna be a solution, we're gonna patch up a precinct, re-assalize and fill the holes, and next year we're gonna ask the same questions. Full rehabilitation, if there is a budget and resources from saving resources from public procurement under Operational Programme "Regions in growth" or from the alkaliting of resources from the operational programme from priority axes that do not show a good implementation to road projects, we will have a European resource under the programme. It's a hypothetical option. The safe option I'm telling you is the fastest way to introduce the tol system in heavy goods vehicles. Then, in general, residents who travel the road every day, and not only along this Republican road section, will enjoy a truly rehabilitated road. In the future, the Agency should only endeavour to maintain these roads well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u191	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to you is again related to the state of the road network in the country. He is from Nadya Spasova Klisurska "Zekova and Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov." Mrs. Klisurska, are you going to develop the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u192	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, Strelcha Municipality is a small municipality in Pazardzhik district, but is a famous spa resort. There are several mineral springs on its territory. It is located in one of the largest rose production areas. The Thracian cult complex is also located there. All these things are a prerequisite for an increased tourist interest in recent years and its tourist potential. The development of tourism is a priority and a basis for the development of a stable local economy. The construction and maintenance of infrastructure serving tourism on the territory, including Republican roads linking settlements to those tourist sites I mentioned, is crucial. As you are aware, the only transport link of Strelcha municipality with Pazardzhik district center is carried out along Republican roads number 606 and number 8003. Currently the condition of road 8003 is extremely bad in the stretch about 17 km from the village of Blatnitsa through the village of Smilets, the village of Dulevo until its connection with road number 606. It is not to be overlooked and the fact that the road from Pazardzhik to Koprivshtitsa passes through the Strelcha. And Koprivshtitsa is a truly attractive tourist destination. In 2014 the Road Infrastructure Agency began the preventive repair of the road and funds were provided, but due to the heavy rains [[the President gives a signal of time running out]] The funds were diverted in Varna and this time was realized only in 50 meters section. It's been three years since then. There is still no vision for the financing and continuation of this section. Its condition is extremely bad, it is almost unusable and people are circling through Panagyurishte and beating more than 20 km to reach the Strelcha. There are deformed, failed sections and many prerequisites for road accidents. I know in advance...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u193	Guide yourself to asking a question!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u194	The means of road maintenance have been increased, for which I thank you in advance. And I know that this year there is no means of repairing this road. In this regard, my question is: when do you plan to start the preventive and urgent repair of this road, and what means do you foresee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. Dear Members of Parliament, please take into account your questions with the time provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, you want me to give you a vision for the particular road section. In order to answer future questions, I give you a vision for the overall development of road infrastructure and Republican infrastructure in Bulgaria, so I will not make an exception for the particular road. The vision is the same: tol fees, electronic wineries, 1 billion. lv. revenue and it at the expense of transiting, mainly heavy goods vehicles, across the country. Those questions, I say again, will go back in time. I just need to say a few words. You answered your own question, you know what the information is. Indeed, for the district of Pazardzhik we have increased them and I will say which road sections if possible, they are really also in poor operational condition. A few words for the road only: the section of the third-class road 3-8003 between the settlements Blatnitsa Almost 40! Unfortunately, there are many road sections of the third-class Republican road network with a really urgent need for repair, more than 35 years unrehabilitated. In 2014, what you mentioned was a preventive repair of a small section of about a kilometer away, not 50 meters! The value of the repairs is about 500 thousand. BGN, paid at the end of the year. I would like to highlight the December issue. There is no technical project drawn up for the department, unfortunately, but given the low intensity of traffic on average the 24-hour intensity is below 900 cars - 846 cars per day, as well as due to the narrow budget framework - what I am trying to explain in all the answers and this is a fact, this is not my quirk, for designing and repairing the section is not included, unfortunately, in the national programme for 2017. You already know the answer to the question. According to the quantitative-value balance drawn up in 2014, the overall repair of this 15km section requires about 8 million. lv. With VAT, 7 million. $800,000. lv. with VAT, to date the value is subject to an update precisely because of the rehabilitation of a small part of the road and it is normal to value this value with a sign down. The Road Infrastructure Agency is taking care to maintain the section under the Programme "Current repair and maintenance" and these measures are palliative, you know, according to the budget funds under the Programme. In order to ensure the safety of traffic in July this year, repair works on the pavement, drainage and landscape activities are envisaged, really related to improving at least the safety of traveling on the current road. The activities carried out, namely the repair of the pavement, drainage and landscape activities, the restoration of the drainage systems, signs and markings, the funds invested to maintain the road network, the Republican one, in Pazardzhik region, are of a total value of around 4 million. lv. with VAT. In 2017 for preventive repairs in Pazardzhishka district, for targeted funding we have proposed the following two sections with a much greater traffic intensity, respectively in no less critical operating condition of the section specified by you. One of them is road No 375 Caves - Plovdiv, with a length of 15.2 km with an indicative value of the repair of around 2 million. Five hundred thousand. BGN, and road III-843 Sarnitsa, the border with Smolyan district, with a total length of almost 7 km, with an indicative value of just over 3 million. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u197	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u198	Dear Minister, I know for a fact that you expect me not to be satisfied with the answer. And it is not because you think you are quite justified and you have reason to answer me in this way, but because one of the arguments is related to traffic on this road. This time it's really unusable and that's why the traffic is extremely low. People are circling through Panagyurishte and increasing their transition to Strelcha and that is why traffic is so low. I really hope that in the ministry's view over the next fiscal year you will think really about a complete road repair and not such preventive measures, because Strelcha needs this time to develop its tourist potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, you are right about the reasoning and perhaps the incorrect, and I will say why I used it, of course, quoting traffic, the intensity on this road. I compared it with roads that are in an even worse operational state in the Pazardzhik region, where the traffic intensity is much greater than the current one. We're talking about about about two thousand cars, between 1500 and 2000 cars, again with poor performance. I was comparing the same numbers! And that's why we've given them priority resources. I will do my best, of course, with my colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency, in 2018 to provide funding. We know how important it is, as well as N in a number of other sections of the third-class Republican network. And I'll tell myself again like a mantra, sorry about that, toll or electronic wine. We will have resources, we will make a sustainable road sector, sustainable from the point of view of financial opportunities, as much as the needs, how much the sector will spend, how much to generate as revenue, and I will repeat, and I will try again not at the expense of the Bulgarian citizens, those who use cars. The price will in no way be changed by an increase, with an increase function. On the contrary, we are really talking about the fair model, the one that is more damaging to road infrastructure, he is, of course, paying more on the basis of tonnage, on the basis of miles travelled, and the focus will mainly be on transiting through our territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u201	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the MP Ivan Nikolov Mihovski on repair of third-class road sections from the Republican road network of Bulgaria. The sections are not specified. Perhaps you'll be the one to specify them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u202	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the entrance-exit section of the town of Troyan is a second-class road, part of the Republican road network of Bulgaria, washing on the territory of the districts of Pleven, Lovech and Plovdiv. The road section between the town of Lukovit and the village of Rumyantsevo is part of a first-class road from the Republican road network of Bulgaria. The Ribaritsa division is third-class road sections of the Republican road network of Bulgaria. The above sections have not been renovated for more than 15 years. Moving on them is risky and creates conditions for road accidents. In this regard, my question to you, Minister, is: is there a major repair of road sections soon envisaged and is there a design readiness for road sections? What are the possible sources of funding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u203	Thank you, Mr. Mihowski. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u204	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Mihovski! Priority in the management program of the government and the coalition agreement between the Political Party GERB and the United patriots, you know, is building a safe and modern road infrastructure. For the areas specified by you on the territory of Lovech district, I provide you with the following information. On the first time you cited the second-class road, the entrance and exit sections of the town of Troyan, one of the two neural parts of the territory of Lovech District from the second-class road, the last repair of the section was carried out in 2000. It is strange why the quality of the section is so poor, by the way. Rehabilitation is necessary, of course, major repairs, expert assessment for preventive repair of these sections at the entrance and exit of Troyan with a length of more than 4 km. The entrance and exit are over 3.7 km. and it takes about 4,200 million. lv. On the second stretch of the road I-3, the first-class road, in the worst condition on the territory of Lovech district, the section through the village of Rumyantsevo, and not only, it is also through Petrev is a heavy stretch, and through the municipal center of the town of Lukovit. A major renovation of the area is needed, as the latter was carried out in 1996. - Twenty-something years. For the section of the first-class road, I mean, we are not talking about second-class or third-class, about the section between Lukovit and Rumyantsevo village there is a ready technical project from 2012, which needs to be revised and supplemented with regard to the planned repair works. According to an expert assessment for preventive repair of the section from the border with the district of Pleven to the village of Rumyantsevo with a length of almost 14 km, approximately 9 million are needed. lv. with VAT. The third-class road-402, a section of the border of the first-class road 1-4 Sofia, Varna, through Borima, Deep dol, Dobrodan Station has the greatest sensitivity to this road. It also serves the municipality of Ugurchin and the village of Lesidren. Rehabilitation and major repairs are needed, and for the road there is a technical project for major repairs in 2011, which needs to be revised and supplemented with regard to the planned repair and construction works. According to an expert assessment for preventive repair of the entire road over 30 km long. About 14 million is needed. lv. The fourth road, Republican road, on the territory of Lovech district with urgent repair is the section of the village of Ribaritsa via Teteven, Glozhene to Yablanitsa. The last repairs were carried out in 2002. Part of the road, no repairs were carried out on other sections for more than 40 years. An expert assessment of preventive repair requires 7 million. lv. with VAT. The opinion of the experts on the section at the village of Ribaritsa is that no preventive repair can be carried out on the line of current maintenance, as there are narrow facilities on the route five bridge ones that need to be sewn. Of course, it is necessary to prepare a technical rehabilitation project. Those sections are supported by the Programme ongoing repair and maintenance of APIs according to the budget resources of the Programme. We will comment again on the topic: Tol-systems, electronic wineries and so on. Just to reassure you that in the budget in 2017, the first-class road I-3, the section of the village of Rumyantsevo in Petrevje and the municipality center Lukovit is included for financing. We will rank priorities in all areas not only in Loveshka by the load of road sections. Of course, not only by workload, but also by the category of roads, respectively the freight and passenger traffic on them. Our second priority is the entrance and exit of Troyan, the third is the section that passes through Sopot Dam in the tunnel. Speculatively, it is argued in the local community that this time it has been removed from any operational programme moved to another of the I do not know who in past stages of management. On the contrary, it was set precisely in the government Borisov 2 for funding under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth", in the reserves it was, so it was pawned, respectively, never approved for funding, just did not reach a resource for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u205	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You've run out of time by more than one minute. Thank you for your answer. Come in for a line, Mr. Mihovski. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. I'm sorry we can't use more time like our BSP colleagues to get a little more information.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u207	You have extended time "almost all MPs have the opportunity to ask the question as they wish. I don't see any tolerance in that direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u208	We won't comment on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u209	You shouldn't. You're welcome to develop your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u210	Two things have impressed me in your response. The first is the so-called sensitive section from Dobrodan Station to Big Iron. You know the reasons there are two: one is the extremely difficult condition of the road section and the second is the long-standing hopes that were given to the inhabitants of this populated area who never realized themselves. As for the entrance and exit of Troyan, you know that Troyan will celebrate his anniversary next year and we will be happy to welcome our guests with a renewed entrance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u211	Thank you, Mr. Mihowski. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? No. We move on to the next issue last for today's parliamentary control by the MPs Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova and Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov on the financing and construction of the Western ring road of the town of Pazardzhik. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u212	Western ring road of Pazardzhik appears both in the municipal and regional development plan. It was identified as a priority by the Road Infrastructure Agency in 2014 because it is an important road artery through which all the traffic from southern Greece to us will go through in practice and most of all the heavy traffic from southern Greece to us. It also figures in the transport and transport infrastructure projects key to the South Central Region during the 2014-2020 programming period. Through Pazardzhik is the most direct route to Sofia and Plovdiv as a destination to northern Bulgaria. There is an approved common design plan in which a route is provided for the shift of road II-37, such as a west perimeter of the city providing the connection from and to Thrace Motorway. The road route is reserved and falls exclusively on municipal property. So far, only a bridge has been built as an element of the intended common design plan connecting the road to Thrace Motorway and the future route II-37. The current route of Republican road II-37 passes through Pazardzhik's central streets, which do not meet the conditions for traffic safety and cannot handle traffic from heavy goods vehicles. All this leads to rapid depreciation of road pavement and increase dust level. Pazardzhik Municipality has prepared project documentation representing a work project for the first stage and a detailed development plan for the second and third stages of the Western ring road. The project is extremely important for the municipality, but its realization is beyond the financial capabilities of the municipal budget. The construction of the route is planned to take place in four stages and in 2014 the first stage of the route was talked about, which is 1540 meters wide and connects the bridge [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Mr. Minister, when do you foresee the construction of a Western ring road, and what finances do you foresee for this?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u213	Here you are, Minister, to answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mrs. Klisurska! The Western ring road of Pazardzhik is just as priority, not to say less prioritized than the completion of the ring road of Sofia, the completion of the ring road of Plovdiv, of Varna, of Burgas. I can list them all district cities, but I rank them in the city population case. The transit traffic in the Etropole direction is taking place through the central part of the town of Pazardzhik, it is really a problem for transit traffic to pass through the center of the Bulgarian cities. In another order, in some other times they planned and designed similar types of roads. We plan and design them for at least 20 years of democratic change. I see that you are also ripe to comment on the theme with the ring roads to take transit traffic out of the central urban areas, to be respectively directed on the roundabout roads of the major cities. The section through the city is characterized by high intensity of movement, this is heavy traffic, which complicates the traffic situation in the town of Pazardzhik. In addition, conditions are created for pollution with harmful emissions and an increase in noise loading. Correctly, in 2014, you mentioned, APIS together with Pazardzhik Municipality had a lot of support from Pazardzhik Municipality, looking at the possibilities for moving traffic outside the central city area. Studies have been carried out and preliminary project of Pazardzhik municipality has been made to determine a technically possible solution for the removal of traffic outside the city. A decision has been made to build a new route of road II-37 about a kilometer long and 540 meters, as you mentioned, the western perimeter. A design assignment has been prepared and the project is planned to be implemented in engineering, which includes research design works, of course, and construction. According to the expert assessment of the Road Infrastructure Agency, the value of the site is almost 10 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Six hundred thousand. BGN, with 3 million being provided for the site in 2014. lv. with VAT. The same Decree No 19 of the Council of Ministers dated 7 February 2014 also provided 2.5 million. BGN, with which preventive repairs were carried out on road II-37 in an area over 5 km long. between the highway and the beginning of the town of Trakia. Pazardzhik. The financing of the site could not be carried out by API budget due to the limited budget of the framework of the Building Programme for the Agency for 2014. The MRRB team is jointly, of course, working with API in this direction with our government. Not to repeat again tol fees, electronic wineries and so on, will complete the project readiness, we will complete our design phase not only for the western part, on the contrary, we need to perform estrangement procedures and I mentioned many times in my previous answers what is the way of financing we will consistently implement all the sites of the Republican road network, including the tours of the district cities where there is a need. I mentioned the most important of them Sofia, Plovdiv, Burgas, Varna and, of course, Pazardzhik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u215	Thank you, Mr. Minister, you were extremely accurate in time. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u216	Dear Minister, not just now, but in the past, our parliamentary group is ripe for the roundabouts. I don't know where your opinion came from, but you're confused here. I believe that the satisfactory answer to your question would be your possible vision in 2018 to plan a partial or phased construction of the western circle road so that it can be fully implemented within 2020, as you have fixed it in the strategic documents. I am aware that we are the seventh largest area in Bulgaria, but this is not essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. Mr. Minister, would you like to take the coat? No. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, with this issue, the agenda for today's parliamentary control has been exhausted and I am closing today's plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-16.u218	The next regular plenary session on Wednesday, 21 June 2017 at 9:00 a.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
