ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u1	Good morning! [[Applause.]] Thanks for the welcome, guys. Please take your seats. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly work programme of the National Assembly: Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Importer is the national representative Krasimir Velchev on 1 November 2017. We propose to be the first point for today, and the previous points first and second become the second and third respectively. Please vote. Vote 169 MPs: 151 against 1, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Messages: - In the National Assembly there is an opinion of the Fiscal Council on the Draft Strategy for Government Debt Management for the period 2018 - 2020. The material is provided by a resolution of the President of the National Assembly of the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. - On 27 October 2017, a report was received by the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with the document adopted on 28 April 2017 75 of Directive 2010/75/EU of 24 November 2010 on industrial emissions. The report is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. - On 1 November 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers. 3 of the National Assembly's decision of 30 June 2017, adopted in connection with the debates on questions by the MPs Mihail Hristov, Anton Kutev and Georgi Gokov on the policies for solving the problems of people with disabilities and the specific actions related to them, was received by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov Concept for reforming the system for expertise of workability. The material is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. Let's start with: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO COMPLETION THE COMMISSION'S CONVERSATION AND HUMAN RIGHTS On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I submit a draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Please provide the draft decision for consideration and voting in accordance with the established order. Signature.......................................................................................................... The importer is the national representative Krasimir Velchev, President of the Commission, in which I propose to you the following: Project! DECISION on the completion of the Commission's composition by religion and human rights The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I put to the vote your proposed project. They voted 189 MPs: 147, against 18, abstention 24. The draft decision has been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LEGISLATION LAW FOR THE COMMISSION IN FINANCIAL SUPERVISION No 702-01-34. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 24 October 2017. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will be presented to you by the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u2	Please first, invite Mrs. Karina Karaivanova, Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, Mrs. Diana Yordanova and Mrs. Boyko Atanasov, Vice-Presidents of the Commission to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made for admission. Vote 164 MPs: 152 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u4	♪ I can't believe by the Committee on Budget and Finance under the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Financial Supervision Commission Act, No 702-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 October 2017. At a meeting held on 26 October 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the bill mentioned. The meeting was attended by Diana Yordanova Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, Directors of Directorates at the Ministry of Finance, representatives of the Association of Insurance Brokers in Bulgaria and others. The draft was presented by Mrs. Yordanova, who pointed out that it aims to resolve three main groups of issues: to ensure the budgetary security of the Financial Supervision Commission; to regulate measures for the implementation of recommendations of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank's Financial Sector Assessment Programme, which relate to the non-bank financial sector in Bulgaria, as well as to take measures to ensure the implementation of our country's commitments as a result of the European legislation introduced in national law which confers additional powers on national supervisory authorities in the Member States. The proposed changes are aimed at ensuring the budget required by the Financial Supervision Commission by financing it from fees collected in the exercise of its statutory powers, which will provide the necessary conditions for the proper functioning of the Commission as the regulatory and supervisory authority of the non-banking financial sector. The current legal regulation of the Commission's financing leads to cases of difficulties related to the implementation of its obligations to pay for membership in the European authorities, as well as international organisations IOSCO, IOPS and IAIS, which should not be allowed. The entry into force since 2010 of the new European Financial Supervision Framework has imposed a number of requirements, a large part of which are aimed at strengthening the coordination and activities of national supervisory authorities with the new European Supervisory Agencies. Under the regulations, national supervisory authorities are obliged to participate in the work of the European supervisory authorities, which is linked to an obligation to participate in all their activities and initiatives with highly qualified experts, as well as a regular trip to their seats. Pursuant to the regulations on European Supervisory Authorities, peer reviews of the financial market supervisory authorities are intended to be carried out, and the controls will focus not only on the convergence of supervisory practices and on the possibility for supervisors to achieve high-quality results of supervision but also on the independence of those competent authorities. A non-participation of the Financial Supervision Commission in the European authorities would exclude Bulgaria from the process of drafting European regulations, which will apply directly to our capital, insurance and insurance markets. It was stated that the bill establishes an application in the Financial Supervision Commission Act, which regulates all the fees that the Financial Supervision Commission collects in carrying out its powers under the applicable regulations. The FSAP report recommended improving expert capacity and ensuring the financial security of the body to allow for an increase in employee expertise. The amount of their remuneration should not be lower than the corresponding level of remuneration of employees than those supervised by the Financial Supervision Commission. The Commission's staff should actively participate in the work of the working groups with the European Supervisory Authorities on the financial markets, it is necessary to increase their professional qualifications due to the dynamic development of the financial industry and regulatory dynamics. The recommendations made by the IMF and the World Bank require an amendment of the competence of the Financial Supervision Commission and its authorities due to a finding that important powers have been conferred on the members of the Financial Supervision Commission as sole administrative bodies instead of the collective body. Opinions were given during the discussion by MP Georgi Turnovaliski, from the Association of Insurance Brokers and representatives of the Bulgarian Association of Extra Pension Insurance Companies. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:........................ 12 Members of the National Assembly........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Financial Supervision Commission Act, No 702 01 34, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. The next report belongs to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u6	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the The Financial Supervision Commission Act No 702-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 October 2017. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting on 1 November 2017 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Supervision Commission with the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Ms. Nadia Daskalova and Mrs. Elena Petrova, state experts in the Directorate of Financial Markets Regulation and Mrs. Diana Yordanova, Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, who presented the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Financial Supervision Commission Act. She pointed out that the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Financial Supervision Commission Act aims to resolve three main groups of issues: to ensure the budgetary collateralisation of the Financial Supervision Commission; to regulate measures to implement recommendations of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank's Financial Sector Assessment Programme concerning the non-bank financial sector in Bulgaria, as well as to take measures to ensure the fulfilment of our country's commitments as a result of the European legislation implemented in national law conferring additional powers on national supervisory authorities in the Member States. The proposed Bill provides for amendments to the Financial Supervision Commission Act aimed at ensuring the budget required by the Financial Supervision Commission by financing it from fees collected in the exercise of its statutory powers. The Law establishes an application in the Financial Supervision Commission Act which regulates all the fees that the Financial Supervision Commission collects in carrying out its powers under the Public Offerings Act, the Financial Instruments Markets Act, the Act on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings, the Special Investment Companies Act, the Insurance Code and the Social Security Code, and its general financial supervision. New charges resulting only from the changes in legislation since 2011 are introduced. The Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other undertakings for collective investment, the amendments to the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, as well as the European Regulations on the exercise of the new supervisory powers of the Financial Supervision Commission arising from them. At the same time, when setting the fees, the draft shall comply with the objective of the Financial Supervision Commission to stimulate the development of capital markets by introducing a period of three years in which the Financial Supervision Commission will not charge for the approval of a prospectus. The Bill proposes uniformisation of the rights of regulation regarding the status and remuneration of the employees of the Financial Supervision Commission in a similar way to those of the employees of the Bulgarian National Bank, which also stems from the identity of the powers and functions of the regulators of the banking and non-banking sectors. In the implementation of a recommendation from the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank on the need to strengthen the legal framework in the direction of legal protection of the employees of the supervisory authority, the bill proposes changes to the texts of the Act governing the responsibility of the members of the Financial Supervision Commission and the officials of its administration in order to align with the regime under art. 9 of the Law on the liability of the State and the municipalities for damages, according to which regressive liability is sought only in the case of a criminal offence recognised by court. The Financial Supervision Commission Act, the Insurance Code, the Public Offering Act, the Financial Instruments Markets Act, the Act on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings, the Additional Supervision Act on Financial conglomerates under which the Financial Supervision Commission will exercise a number of powers which, under the current legislation, are entrusted as powers to the members of the Commission. People's representatives Hassan Ademov and Pavel Shopov took part in the discussion. Questions were raised concerning the draft budget of the Financial Supervision Commission and its connection to the draft budget of the State for the next year. Mr. Pavel Shopov expressed the opinion of the parliamentary group of the United patriots, who have reservations about the so presented bill that until the answers are received on it they will refrain from support. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the vote with results: 9 votes for the vote, without the vote against the vote, and 9 votes abstentions, the Labour and Social Policy Commission adopted the following opinion: it proposes that the National Assembly should not adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Financial Supervision Commission Act, No 702-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u7	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u8	Dear Ms. Karayancheva, dear colleagues! When we adopt a law or amendments to the laws relating to such important regulatory authorities, the main criterion to be used for the assessment of the relevant project is whether it leads to an improvement of the regulatory functions of the relevant authority. Needless to stress the importance of the Financial Supervision Commission, which in its rank and its responsibilities is close to that of the Bulgarian National Bank. Firstly, in principle, we approve of the desire to improve the regulatory functions of the Financial Supervision Commission, but as they say, the devil is in the details. As regards the qualifications of those employed in the Financial Supervision Commission. It became clear during the debates in the Budget Committee... we clearly expressed our opinion and did not agree with the importers that people employed in the Financial Supervision Commission should have higher economic or legal education. Moreover, we have a claim to the degree of education that should not be higher education at the level of the Bachelor and should be at least at the level of the Master. We do not agree with the proposal to be able to take seats in the Financial Supervision Commission, people who have completed other specialties. It was argued that the objectives of the work of the Financial Supervision Commission, especially in the field of insurance, are necessary people with mathematical training. Dear colleagues, economists from individual specialties at our university and at other universities are studying a number of economical disciplines, quantitative analyses, so there are enough economists with excellent mathematical training. Same goes for lawyers. We must have the ambition to seek lawyers with economic training as our higher education institutions offer. We therefore believe that the requirements for those employed in the Financial Supervision Commission must be much higher. Next, we accept the attempt to make the Financial Supervision Commission independent of the budget, in the sense to move from budget funding to self-financing. This is consistent with the practices of most European countries and must be supported. Along with this, between first and second reading, we want to clarify the following. First, once again, to check whether the burden on smaller-sized active companies and intermediaries on these markets will not pay a disproportionate fee compared to the major players on the market. And a question that is not insignificant.. the question of the remuneration of the management and of the employees of the Financial Supervision Commission. We believe that the limit proposed for the average wage level in the sector, i.e. the average wages of supervisory persons, is not sufficient, as it is possible to reach the paradox where the average wages in the Financial Supervision Commission are higher, including the average wages in the Bulgarian National Bank. That is why we want to specify these texts. For these reasons, we want between first and second readings to improve the relevant texts and to be absolutely sure that by making such substantial changes in the conditions, in the legislative documents, in the work of the Financial Supervision Commission, we will indeed ensure better functioning, greater reliability and greater efficiency of this Commission. That is why we will vote abstention and demand that appropriate changes be made between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Any lines to Mr. Gechev's statement? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! The problems that are trying to solve this Bill are problems that are not only the Financial Supervision Commission. These are problems that there are in all the state authorities, almost all of them. They are particularly serious in the control authorities. The Financial Supervision Commission is a specialized state body, a legal person of budgetary maintenance and the Commission in the exercise of its powers is independent of the executive authority and is accountable for its activities to the National Assembly. In accordance with art. 28 of the same Law. The Commission is part of the state budget. According to the reasons of the importers, the proposed amendments to the Commission's Financial Supervision Act are proposed by a so-called legislative approach, whereby the Commission will be supported independently through fee financing and will ensure the normal functioning of its activities. The aim is to achieve full budgetary autonomy, and art. Art. 2 and Art. 2 28 remain and are in need of a budget support for the Commission. The other objective for the reasons presented to us is the independence of the Financial Supervision Commission, which is clearly stated in the quoted article a short time ago. 2, para. The 4th s is completely independent and is accountable to the National Assembly. The importers state that they propose this legislative approach because: The Financial Supervision Commission and the Bulgarian National Bank complied with and applied the same legislation, the same activities and the difference in funding between the Bank and the Commission is essential and this needs to be changed. I once again say: we have a Financial Supervision Commission, a state body. If we accept what they are asking of the Financial Supervision Commission today, this means that we should expect this to be requested by the National Revenue Agency in a few months from the Office of Customs, by the other government control bodies. It is proposed that the remuneration of the President, the deputies and the members be dependent on the average salary of the governors in this sector, and I believe that this is a very serious and high level. Yes, the responsibilities of the President and the Commission are serious, but I think they are serious responsibilities of the Prime Minister, the President, the President of the National Assembly. There is no way this Commission and its governing bodies will have salaries higher than those of the President of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister, the President, and in practice this will happen. It is clear that good specialists must be attracted to the Commission, and one of the reasons is good pay. But we need to look for other levers and comply with the Law. In the end, civil servants, state authorities also comply with the regulations that have been voted on and adopted for payment in the public sector. We want higher reward, better pay, and at the same time in art. 18, para. 10: The members of the Commission will not be liable for damage. I believe that this should also be reconsidered and framed for the possibility of remuneration and its increase in the Commission. Otherwise, perhaps it is intended to give the Commission for Financial Supervision of a concession or something more about partial privatisation of the people who manage it?! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovallisky. Any lines to the statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Financial Supervision Commission Act No 702 01 34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 October 2017. Vote 162 MPs: 100, against 22, abstention 40. The bill was passed in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODECTION CODECTION CODEX. The MINISTER COUNCIL OF 18 July 2017 was adopted at the first vote on 14 September 2017. Welcome to the report, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u12	The Council of Ministers submitted a second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 702-01-9, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2017, adopted on the first vote on 14 September 2017. The Social Security Act was amended and supplemented by the Social Security Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u13	I put to the vote the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 144 MPs: 138, none, abstention 6. The name has been adopted by the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u14	Please invite Mrs. Karina Karaivanova, Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, Mrs. Diana Yordanova, Mrs. Boyko Atanasov, Vice-Presidents, Mrs. Tsvetinka Mihailova, Director of the Financial Markets Regulation Directorate at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Elena Petrova, State Expert at the Ministry and Nadia Daskalova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u15	Voting regime for tolerance. They voted 143 MPs: 132, against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Please invite the other guests to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u16	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4b, para. 1 the words "age" under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u17	Please vote on the creation of § 1 on the Commission report. They voted 142 MPs: 138, none, abstention 4. The proposal has been adopted, and thus the creation of a new § 1 on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u18	Paragraph 1 by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2. Under § 2 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The Pension Insurance Company shall carry out its activities: 1. under this Code and its implementing acts; 2. in accordance with its statutes, the rules on the organisation and activities of the supplementary pension fund managed by it, its investment policy and the internal acts under art. 123e, para. 4 t. 5 letters.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 6 and 8; 3. in accordance with the other internal acts adopted by the company in accordance with the requirements of this Code and its implementing acts. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u19	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the new numbering § 2, § 3 and § 4 on the Commission report. Vote 137 MPs: 135, none, abstention 2. § 2, 3 and 4 were adopted on the Commission report with a new numbering. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u20	According to § 4 of the importer there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 121c the following amendments 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The capital of the pension insurance company must be fully paid in cash at the date of submission of the application for a pension licence, respectively at the date of submission of the application for entry in the commercial register. The contributions to the capital of the pension insurance company of the founders and shareholders cannot be made by borrowing, by means of funds of unproven origin or by means obtained as a result of criminal or other illegal activity. 2. Alinei 6 and 7 are amended as follows: When the capital (capital base) of the pension insurance company falls below the amount set out in para. 4, it shall notify the Commission within three days and submit within 14 days of the decrease of own funds below the required amount of the rescue programme to bring into line with the requirements of this Code within a three-month period of equity. When the failure to comply with the requirement under para. 4 was established by the Vice-President of the Commission, the committee on a proposal from the Vice-President of the Commission, ordering the pension insurance company to draw up a recovery programme within a period which cannot be longer than 14 days. (7) The Commission shall, on a proposal from the Vice-President of the Commission, approve or refuse to approve the rescue programme within 14 days of its receipt. The Commission shall refuse to approve the programme where the proposed measures do not ensure the fulfilment of the requirement under para. 4 or the interests of insured persons or pensioners. 3. Paragraph 9 is amended as follows: If the programme fails to be approved or if the approved programme fails to comply, the Commission shall take the action under art. 344, para. 2, p. 7 and/or t. 19. 4. Paragraph 10 is amended as follows: The requirements for the composition and structure of the equity (the capital base) of the pension insurance company to the minimum liquidity of the company and the supplementary pension funds it manages and to the structure and content of the rescue programme shall be determined by a Commission regulation. 5. The creation of para. 14: The Commission may, on a proposal from the Vice-President of the Commission, request that a new calculation of each of those indicators be carried out when carrying out financial supervision is found that the pension insurance company has calculated the amount of reserves which it is obliged to create under this Code, the value of the assets, liabilities, revenues and costs or other indicators in breach of this Code and its implementing acts.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u21	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 4, which shall become § 5, supported by the Commission. They voted 139 MPs: for 139 against and abstentions there is no. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u22	According to § 5 an importer there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: § 6. Article 121e is amended as follows: "Requirements and liability of the members of the management and control bodies Art. 121e. (1) Members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of the Pension Insurance Company or of the Board of Directors, other persons authorised to manage or represent it, as well as persons in another management position in the company shall meet the following requirements for qualification and reliability: 1. possess professional qualifications, knowledge and experience adequate for the stable and prudent management of the company (qualification); 2. have a good reputation and be honest (reliance). (2) The members of the management and control body of the pension insurance company shall have the necessary qualifications collectively in all relevant fields of activity. (3) The pension insurance company shall be managed and represented together by at least two executive directors or an executive director and a prosecutor. They may not entrust the overall management and representation of the pension insurance company to one of them, but may authorise third parties to carry out separate actions. (4) The management and control body of the pension insurance company shall adopt and implement rules and procedures to ensure that the persons under para. 1 at any time meet the requirements for qualification and reliability. (5) A member of the Management Board, the Board of Directors or the Prosecutor of the Pension Insurance Company may only be a natural person who: 1. have a higher education with an acquired educational and qualification degree not lower than a Master, in a specialty suitable for management of the company; 2. has professional experience under para. 6; 3. has not been convicted of intentional crimes of general nature, as well as of crimes of negligence against property and against the holding committed in the Republic of Bulgaria or abroad, unless rehabilitated; 4. is not deprived of the right to hold a materially responsible position; 5. in the last three years prior to the date of insolvency set by the court, it was not a member of a management or control body or an unlimited responsible partner in a firm for which insolvency proceedings were opened or terminated due to insolvency, if there were remaining unsatisfied creditors; 6. is not in insolvency proceedings and is not refunded in its non-state debtor rights; 7. during the last one year prior to the act of the relevant competent authority has not been a member of a management or control body, an unlimited responsible partner or prosecutor in a company to which a licence to carry out an activity subject to authorisation has been revoked, except where the licence has been revoked at the request of the company, and if the instrument to withdraw the licence issued has been revoked in the appropriate order; 8. has not been released from a management or control body of a trading company or as a prosecutor on the basis of an enforced administrative measure, unless the act of the competent authority has been repealed in accordance with the relevant procedure; 9. he is not a spouse or relative by rights or by line to the fourth degree including, or by matchmaking to the third degree, including, with another member of the management or control body of the company and is not in actual cohabitation with such a member; 10. is not a member of a management or control body of another pension insurance company operating in the country; 11. administrative penalties have not been imposed on him in the last three years for systematic violations of this Code, other laws regulating the non-banking financial sector, the Credit Institutions Act and the implementing acts or the relevant legislation of another Member State; 12. shall not give grounds for doubt as to its reliability and suitability and for which there is no conflict of interest on the basis of the data collected for it. (6) Professional experience within the meaning of para. 5, t. 2 is present when the person not less than 5 years is: 1. holding a position in a management or control body of a pension insurance company, insurance, reinsurance, bank or other financial sector entity where the activity of the financial sector entity is comparable to that of the pension insurance company; 2. hold a management position relating to the management or investment of assets in a non-financial sector entity whose assets are proportionate to the assets managed by the pension insurance company; 3. working in state institutions or other public bodies whose main functions include management and control of state or international public financial assets or management, control and investment of funds created by a regulatory act, provided that its obligations were related to the main activity of those institutions and entities and their controlled, controlled or invested assets are proportionate to the assets managed by the pension insurance company; 4. working in a management position in state institutions which operate in the field of social security and in finance or in supervision of them. (7) Member of the pension insurance control body may be: 1. Deficient natural person who meets the requirements of para. 5, t. 1 and 3 - 12, or 2. a legal person which accordingly meets the requirements of para. 5, t. 5 - 8 and 10 - 12. (8) The representative of a legal person s a member of the control body of the pension insurance company shall comply with the requirements of para. 7, p. 1. (9) He may not be a member of a management or control body, a representative of a legal person in a control body or a prosecutor of the pension insurance company: 1. Person under art. 123c, para. 1, with which the company has contractual relations; 2. a guardian bank with which the company has concluded a custody contract; 3. a person in close links with a person under point 3. 1 or 2; 4. Partner, shareholder, member of a management or control body of a person under point 4. One or two. (10) The persons under para. 5 and 7 prior to their election by the competent authority of the company and the persons under para. 8 Before their designation by the relevant legal person, they shall be subject to approval by the Commission. For approval, they shall submit an application on a model approved by the Vice-President of the Commission to which the following documents shall apply: 1. for the persons under para. 5. (a) a diploma for higher education; (b) documents certifying their professional experience; (c) a criminal record or equivalent document for a foreigner; (d) a statement by a model approved by the Vice-President of the Commission on the circumstances under para. 5, t. 4 " 11 " and para. 9; 2. for the persons under para. 7, p. 1 and para. 8. (a) a diploma for higher education; (b) a criminal record or equivalent document for a foreigner; (c) a statement on a model approved by the Vice-President of the Commission on the circumstances under para. 5, t. 4 " 11 " and para. 9; 3. for the persons under para. 7, p. 2 A statement on a model approved by the Vice-President of the Commission on the circumstances under para. 5, t. 5 " 8, 10 and 11 " and para. 9. (11) The Vice-President of the Commission may request, within a specified period of not more than one month: 1. correcting or supplementing the documents under para. 10 to remedy non-compliance with the provisions of this Code or its implementing acts or other documents; 2. the presentation by the applicant, by the competent authorities in the country and abroad or by third parties of documents and/or information concerning the applicant, respectively, on the persons who control it, the members of its management and control bodies and its prosecutors. (12) The Vice-President of the Commission shall submit to the committee a proposal for approval or refusal of approval of the applicant under para. 10 within one month of the submission of the application and where additional documents or information from the applicant or other persons have been requested or instructions are given for the removal of non-compliances under para. Within one month of their submission, the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and to the Council a report to the European Parliament and to the Council on the implementation of this Decision. Where the documents or information requested by other persons are submitted following those of the applicant, the Vice-President of the Commission shall inform him of the deadline for submitting the proposal. Where the requested additional documents or information have not been submitted, the Vice-President of the Commission shall submit the proposal to the Commission within one month of the expiry of the period set for their submission. The Commission shall decide by reasoned decision within one month of the submission of the proposal. (13) The Commission shall refuse to grant approval where the applicant under para. 10: 1. does not meet the requirements of this Code; 2. by its activities or by its influence on decision-making may harm the security of the company or its operations; 3. did not bring the exquisite documents into the definitions under para. a period of 11 years; 4. has submitted documents containing incorrect data. (14) The approval of the committee of a person under para. 5, 7 or 8 shall be issued for taking up a position in a management or control body of a specific pension insurance company and shall cease to take effect if, within one year of its issue, the person under para. 5, 7 or 8 has not been selected by the competent authority of the company, but by para. The legal person concerned is not designated by the legal person concerned. (15) Person under para. 5, 7 or 8, which shall cease to comply with the requirements laid down in this Article, shall immediately notify the management and control body of the company and the Vice-President of the Commission. In this case, the person shall not be entitled to perform his functions and receive remuneration. (16) The members of the management or control body of the pension insurance company shall be personally liable for the damage caused by them in the management of the supplementary pension fund, which shall be the direct and immediate consequence of their guilty actions or omissions. (17) The decisions taken by the management and control body and the transactions concluded in violation of para. The 15th sentence is the second sentence and the person who committed the infringement is responsible to the pension insurance company and the supplementary pension fund for the damage caused.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u23	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote § 5, which shall become § 6 and shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 118 MPs: 90, none, abstention 28. Paragraph 6 shall be adopted on the Commission's report. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u24	Paragraph 6 by importer. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: § 7. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 121e1: "Independent Members" Art. 121e1. (1) At least one third of the Board of Directors or the Board of Directors of the Pension Insurance Company shall consist of independent members of the Board of Directors. (2) The independent member of the Council shall: 1. must meet the requirements of art. 121d, para. 5; 2. cannot be: (a) employee of the pension insurance company; (b) a person who is in close contact with the pension insurance company; (c) a person who is in permanent commercial relations with the pension insurance company; (d) a member of a management or control body, prosecutor or employee of a person referred to in point (b) or (c); (e) a person who is in close contact with another member of the management or control body of the pension insurance company. (3) For the independent members shall apply art. 121d, para. One, two, four, six, nine, seven. (4) The candidates for independent members shall certify the requirements of para. 2, p. 1 with the documents referred to in art. 121d, para. 10, t. 1 and lack of circumstances under para. 2, p. 2 with a declaration. (5) An independent member who shall cease to comply with the requirements of para. 2, shall not be entitled to carry out its functions and receive remuneration and shall be obliged to notify the relevant body of the pension insurance company and the committee without delay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u25	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote § 6 which becomes § 7 and is supported by the Commission. Vote 119 MPs: 118, against no, abstention 1. Paragraph 7 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u26	Paragraph 7 by importer. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8, as in art. 121e, para. 3, p. 3 the words "rules and procedures" shall be deleted after the word "acts" shall be added "accepted according to the requirements of the Code of Social Security and its implementing acts" and in para. 4 the words the persons concerned shall be replaced by the persons in close contact with them. Paragraph 8. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 8, which becomes § 9, as in para. 6, p. 1 the words "or with other documents" shall be deleted and in para. 8, p. 6 the words................................................................................................... Paragraph 9. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10, as in para. 1, 2 and 3 the words 4 the words the Vice-President of the Committee shall be replaced by the Committee Committee on a model adopted by him and shall be replaced by the Committee on a model adopted by the Vice-President of the Committee and shall be replaced by a statement of change. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11. Paragraph 11. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12, as in para. 3, p. 1 the words "or with other documents" shall be deleted and in para. 4 the words of the Vice-President shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u27	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put the paragraphs supported by the Commission with a new numbering, § 8, § 9, § 10, 11, 12 and 13 respectively, to the vote. Vote 117 MPs: 116, against no, abstention 1. Paragraphs 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 with a new numbering on the Commission report have been adopted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u28	Under § 13 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 13, which becomes § 14, as in para. 1, t. 8 the word................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, § 15 and § 16 which shall become § 15, § 16 and § 17 respectively. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. The following amendments shall be made in art.122k: 1. In para. 1, t. 3 the words "the person concerned with him" shall be replaced by the person in close links with him and the words "the person concerned with him" shall be replaced by the person in close links with him. 2. In para. 2 the words of the Vice-President shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u29	Mrs. Stoyanova, so far.......................................................... Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the paragraphs with a new numbering of 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 supported by the Commission. They voted 122 MPs: 119, none, abstention 3. Paragraphs 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 with a new numbering on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u30	Under § 17 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 17, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 3 the words "retirement reserves for the payment of life-saving pensions by the Fund concerned' shall be replaced by "retirement and technical provisions'. (b) C. 5 words shall be deleted. 2. In para. 2 the words the Vice-President of the Commission shall be replaced by the Vice-President of the Commission. Under § 18, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 18, which becomes § 20, as in para. 8 and 9 all over the words "the Vice-President' shall be deleted. According to § 19 there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 in the text before point 1, the words "the Vice-President' shall be deleted and after the words "from the date of its conclusion' shall be a comma and added to the statement "the Vice-President' and shall be a comma. 2. In para. 2a: (a) in point 1, the words "the person concerned with him' shall be replaced by "in close links with the pension insurance company'; (b) in point 3, the words "one and the same or related person" shall be deleted and eventually added "or has close links with such an investment firm." 3. In para. 5 all over the words of the Vice-President shall be deleted. 4. In para. 8 the words.................................................................................................... 5. In para. 9 the word................................................................................................. 6. In para. The second sentence shall be created: After the opening of insolvency proceedings, the Quaestor, the temporary trade union or the trustee bank's trade union shall be obliged not later than 5 working days from the date of signature of the custody contract between the pension insurance company and the new guardian bank to carry out the actions under para. 6 according to the instructions and orders given by the pension insurance company. 7. In para. 13 the words the Vice-President of the Committee shall be replaced by the Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the new numbering of paragraphs 19, 20 and 21. They voted 124 MPs: 122, none, abstention 2. Paragraphs 19, 20 and 21 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u32	Under § 20, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123c The following amendments shall be made: 1.Alinea 1 is amended as follows: The Pension Insurance Company shall enter into a contract with an investment firm after approval by the management body of the company. 2. In para. 2 the words "a related person" shall be replaced by "a close relationship with him." 3. Alinea 3 is canceled. 4. In para. 5, t. 1 the words "the person concerned' shall be replaced by "the person concerned in close links with them'. 5. In para. 6 In the end, the words "or related person' shall be replaced by "s' and shall not be closely linked to them. 6. In para. 7 the words of the Vice-President shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u33	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u34	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u35	That's it. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the paragraphs supported by the Commission by a new numbering, § 22, § 23 and § 24. They voted 118 MPs: 115, none, abstention 3. By this, paragraphs 22, 23 and 24 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u36	Under § 23, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 25, as in para. 4 texts before t. 1 after the words the additional insurance activity shall be a comma and shall be added, including where the implementation of a part of it is entrusted under a contract of a third party. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u37	So far, Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the paragraphs with a new numbering 25, 26, 27, 28 and 29 which are supported by the Commission. Vote 119 MPs: 114, no objection, abstention 5. Paragraphs 25, 26, 27, 28 and 29 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u38	Under § 28 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 28, which shall become § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123l the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 6 the words of the Vice-President shall be deleted. 2. In para. 7 the words the Vice-President shall be replaced by the Vice-President on a proposal from the Vice-President. 3. In para. 9 the words of the Vice-President shall be deleted and the words of the Vice-President shall be deleted. 344, para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 344, para. 2, p. 7.............................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 31. Under § 30, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "age" under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The selection shall be made with an individual application submitted by the person to the pension fund managing the fund in which he wishes to participate. At the same time as the application, the person shall enter into an insurance contract with the company. The contract shall take effect provided that the requirements of para. 1 and 2, with the insurance relationship arising from the first number of the month following the month of selection. 1. In para. 4 the words "Selecting the provision, order and method of collection and allocation of the increased contribution' shall be replaced by the Order and method of collection and the allocation of the contribution. 2. The creation of para. 5. The order for submission of the application under para. 3, Izr. 1 and its content requirements shall be determined by a Commission regulation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 33. There is an error in the report here, Madam President. Paragraph 32 must be replaced by §33, that is to say § 31 becomes § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33 which shall become § 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u39	That's it. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I vote on paragraphs 30, 31, 32, 33, 34 and 35, supported by the Commission. These are the new numbering paragraphs. Vote 113 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 3. Paragraphs 30, 31, 32, 33, 34 and 35 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u40	Under § 34, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 36, by: 1. A new point 3 shall be created: "3." In para. 13 words by para. Article 1 (a) is amended as follows: (b) the second paragraph is replaced by the following: " (c) the second paragraph is replaced by the following: (d) the second paragraph is 2. Points 3 and 4 become respectively points 4 and 5. The Commission shall support the importer's text for paragraphs 35 to 40, which shall become paragraphs 37 to 42 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u41	That's it. Statements? I don't see any speeches. Please vote on the paragraphs supported by the Commission, respectively, paragraphs 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41 and 42. Vote 117 MPs: 113, none, abstention 4. Paragraphs 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41 and 42 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u42	Under § 41, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 41, which becomes § 43 as in para. 2 t. 16 words shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 44. Under § 43, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43, which shall become § 45, as in para. 3 the words of the Vice-President shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 46. Under § 45, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 47, as in para. 1 t. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 344, para. 1, t. 3 or 14 or para. 2, p. In order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, it is The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u43	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the paragraphs supported by the Commission with a new numbering 43, 44, 45, 46, 47 and 48. Vote 119 MPs: 114, no objection, abstention 5. Paragraphs 43, 44, 45, 46, 47 and 48 are the new numberings, the Commission's report adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u44	Paragraph 47. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 49. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 50: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 154b the following amendments shall be made: 1. In the heading, the words "the Vice-President' are deleted. 2. In the text, the words "the Vice-President of the Commission' shall be replaced by "the Vice-President of the Commission'. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 167 is amended as follows: Right to an additional lifelong retirement pension for old age Art. 167 (1) The insured person shall be entitled to an additional life pension for old age when he reaches his age under art. 68, para. 1. (2) At the request of the insured, the supplementary compulsory pension fund may pay an additional life pension for old age five years before its age for acquiring the right to a retirement pension and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1, provided that the accumulated funds on its individual account allow the granting of such a pension of no less than the amount of the minimum retirement pension and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 52. Under § 49, there is a proposal from the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 49, which shall become § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 169 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 in t. 2 and 3 words shall be deleted. 2. A new para is being created. 2: In calculating the pension under para. 1 the life expectancy cannot be higher than that set out in the biometric tables. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it the words of the Vice-President of the........ are deleted.......................................................... are 4. The creation of para. 4. No gender accounting is allowed as an actuarial factor in determining the amount of the additional life-saving retirement pension.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u45	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission has supported § 49, the creation of new paragraphs 50 and 51 and paragraphs 52 and 53, which have been renumbered. Please, voting mode. 107 MPs vote: 105, none, abstention 2. By this, paragraphs 49, 52 and 53 in the Commission report and the new paragraphs 50 and 51 in the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u46	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 54. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 55. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52, which shall become § 56. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53, which shall become § 57. Under § 54, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 58, such as: 1. A new t. is created. 2: "2." In para. 3 the words of the Vice-President shall be deleted. 2. Point 2 becomes respectively t. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u47	Statements? I can't see. I vote on the paragraphs supported by the Commission with a new numbering 54, 55, 56, 57 and 58. Please, voting mode. They voted 115 MPs: 112, none, abstention 3. Paragraphs 54 to 58 have been adopted on the Commission report. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u48	Under § 55, there is a proposal from the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 55, which shall become § 59: ............... 59................................................................... Article 176 is amended as follows: "Investing" Art. 176. (1) The pension insurance company may invest the funds of the Additional Pension Insurance Fund only in: 1. debt securities issued or guaranteed by: (a) a Member State, the liabilities of which constitute sovereign debt, or of its central bank; (b) the European Central Bank or the European Investment Bank; (c) a third country designated by a Commission regulation, the obligations under which they constitute sovereign debt, or by its central bank, which are accepted for trading on a regulated market in a Member State or on an official stock exchange market, or on another organised market in a third country, functioning on a regular, recognised and publicly available basis; (d) a third country other than those referred to in point (c) of the first subparagraph, the liabilities under which they constitute sovereign debt or by its central bank which are accepted for trading on a regulated market in a Member State; (e) international financial organisations, in which case securities must have an investment credit rating; 2. bonds issued by: (a) a body of the local authority of a Member State; (b) a body of the local authority of a third country designated by a Commission regulation, in which case the bonds must have an investment credit rating and are accepted for trading on a regulated market in a Member State or on an official stock exchange market or on another organised market in a third country operating on a regular, recognised and publicly available basis; (c) an authority of the local authority of a third country other than those referred to in point (b) and in that case the bonds must have an investment credit rating and are accepted for trading on a regulated market in a Member State; 3. corporate bonds issued or guaranteed by banks with over 50 per cent State participation authorised to carry out a banking activity under the laws of a Member State in order to finance long-term and medium-term infrastructure projects for which, in the decision of the general meeting of shareholders and in the proposal for a bond loan, an obligation is taken to request acceptance and to be accepted for trading on a regulated market in a Member State within a period of not more than 6 months from their issuance; 4. corporate bonds accepted for trading on: (a) a regulated market in a Member State; (b) an official stock exchange market or another organised market in a third country operating regularly, recognised and publicly available, with bonds having to have an investment credit rating; 5. deposits in banks with a minimum credit rating that are entitled to operate in the territory of a Member State; 6. shares other than shares of a collective investment undertaking as well as in rights or variants thereof: (a) traded on a regulated market in a Member State; (b) traded on an official stock exchange market or on another organised market in a third country operating on a regular, recognised and publicly available basis, with shares having to be included in indices on those markets; (c) preference shares of an issuer whose shares are included in the indices referred to in point (b); 7. shares offered under the terms of a primary public offering under the legislation of a Member State for which a prospectus has been approved and published, providing for an obligation to request acceptance of the shares and to be accepted for trading on a regulated market in a Member State within a period of not more than 12 months from their issuance; 8. bonds offered under the conditions of initial public offering under the legislation of a Member State for which a prospectus has been approved and published, providing for an obligation to request acceptance of the bonds and to be accepted for trading on a regulated market in a Member State within a period of not more than 12 months from their issuance; 9. covered corporate bonds for which, in the decision of the general meeting of shareholders and in the proposal for the conclusion of a bond loan, it is an obligation to request acceptance and to accept them for trading on a regulated market within a period of not more than 6 months from their issuance and for which the requirements of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities are to be applied accordingly to the trustee of the bondholders and to secure the public bond issue; 10. shares of: (a) a special investment purpose company authorised under the Law on Special Investment Purpose Companies, as well as in rights under § 1, item 1. 3 of the additional provisions of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities issued in the event of an increase in the capital of the company; (b) a collective investment undertaking whose exclusive business is investment in immovable property authorised to operate under the legislation of a Member State under supervision and which are admitted to trading on a regulated market in a Member State; 11. shares and/or shares of a collective investment scheme having its registered office in a Member State or in a third country designated by a Commission regulation; 12 shares and/or shares of alternative investment funds managed by a person authorised under the requirements of Directive 2011/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2011 on alternative investment fund managers and amending Directives 2003/41/EC and 2009/65/EC and Regulations (EC) No 1060/2009 and (EU) No 1095/2010 (OJ L 174/1 of 1 July 2011).) 13. investment properties in a Member State. (2) The Commission shall determine by decree: 1. States under para. 1, t. 1 letter (s) (i.e. 2 letter (b) (i.e. 4 (b) (i.e. 6 (b) and (c) 11; 2. international financial organizations under para. 1, t. point (d) (1) (i) is replaced by the following: 3. the minimum levels of the credit rating under para. 1, t. 5; 4. Markets under para. 1, t. 1 letter (s) (i.e. 2 letter (b) (i.e. 4 (b) and the markets and indices of these markets under para. 1, t. 6 point (b). (3) The credit ratings under para. Art. 1, art. Article 178 251 must meet the requirements for use for regulatory purposes under Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on credit rating agencies (OJ L 302/1 of 17 November 2009.), hereinafter referred to as "the EFTA Surveillance Authority."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u49	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 55, which shall become § 59, and shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 109 MPs: for 107, no objection, abstention 2. Paragraph 59 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u50	Under § 56, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 56, which shall become § 60: ........................................................ Article 177 is amended as follows: "Prohibition of investment and restrictions on transactions in assets of an additional mandatory pension fund Art. 177. (1) The pension insurance company may not invest the funds of an additional compulsory pension fund in: 1. financial instruments issued by the pension insurance company that manages it or by its related persons; 2. financial instruments issued by the bank trustee of the fund or persons located in close links with it; 3. deposits in a bank that is related to the pension insurance company; 4. shares and/or shares of collective investment scheme under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 11 and an alternative investment fund under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 12, managed by a pension-related entity; 5. financial instruments that are not fully paid out. (2) Additional pension fund assets may not be acquired by: 1. the pension insurance company; 2. persons related to the pension insurance company; 3. another supplementary pension fund managed by the pension fund; 4. the bank trustee of the fund or by persons who are in close contact with it; 5. Person under art. 123c, para. 4 or persons who are in close contact with it; 6. collective investment scheme or other collective investment undertaking managed by the pension insurance company. (3) An additional compulsory pension fund may not acquire assets from the persons under para. 2. (4) The prohibition of acquisition under para. 2 and 3 shall not apply in the case of the conclusion of a transaction on a regulated market in a Member State or on an official market on a stock exchange or on another organised market in a third country operating regularly, recognised and publicly available. (5) The pension insurance company may not make short sales and margin purchases of financial instruments at the expense of an additional compulsory pension fund it manages. (6) The pension insurance company may not acquire or transfer to a regulated market on behalf of and on behalf of a fund managed by it for additional compulsory pension provision financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 6 and 10 through transactions which under the trading rules of the relevant regulated market are only subject to registration on that market. The prohibition shall not apply to transactions in shares subject to a tender. (7) The use of investment property shall not be allowed to be held by the fund for additional compulsory pension insurance, for the needs of its management pension insurance company and its related persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u51	Statements? I can't see. Colleagues, at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee on Education and Science Milena Damyanova, are visiting us today students and teachers from the club Vasil Levski. Let's say hello. Let's say hello to the other guests who are here on the balcony. [[Applause the MPs welcome the guests on the balcony.]] I put to the vote the Commission's support § 56, which becomes § 60. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 56, which becomes Paragraph 60 of the Commission's report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u52	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 57, which shall become § 61. Under § 58, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 58, which shall become § 62: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 178 is amended as follows: supposed limits Art. 178. (1) Not more than 5 per cent of the assets of an additional compulsory pension fund may be invested in financial instruments issued by one issuer and in this limit: 1. do not include debt securities under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 1 letters...................................................................................................................... 2. do not include debt securities under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 1 point (c) with an investment credit rating; 3. where the issuer is a bank, the deposits of the fund in that bank shall also be included, the value of the reverse repo transactions with it under art. 179a, para. 1 and the net exposure value of forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts to the same bank; 4. where the issuer is a financial institution, the value of the net exposure to forward currency contracts and its interest rate swap contracts shall also be included. (2) The total value of the investments of an additional compulsory pension fund in financial instruments issued by companies of one group and the persons with whom those companies are in close links shall not exceed 10 percent of the fund's assets. This restriction shall also include: 1. the deposits of the fund in banks of the group and in banks located in close links with companies of the group, the value of the reverse repo transactions under art. 179a, para. 1 with those banks and the value of the net exposure to them under forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts; 2. the value of the net exposure to forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts with financial institutions of the group and financial institutions located in close links with companies of the group. (3) Not more than 10 percent of the assets of an additional compulsory pension fund may be invested in securities under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 1 letter................................................................................. (4) Not more than 10 percent of the assets of an additional compulsory pension fund may be invested in securities under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 1 (e) (5) Not more than 15 percent of the assets of an additional compulsory pension fund may be invested in securities under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 2, with no more than 5 percent of the assets may be in bonds issued by a local authority that are not traded on a regulated market. (6) Not more than 10 percent of the assets of an additional compulsory pension fund may be invested in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 3. (7) Not more than 30 percent of the assets of an additional compulsory pension fund may be invested in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 4. (8) Not more than 25 per cent of the assets of an additional compulsory pension fund may be invested in deposits, and investments in deposits in one bank may not exceed 5 per cent of the fund's assets. (9) Not more than 25 percent of the assets of an additional compulsory pension fund may be invested in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 6. (10) Not more than 2 percent of the assets of an additional compulsory pension fund may be invested in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 7. (11) Not more than 2 percent of the assets of an additional compulsory pension fund may be invested in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 8. (12) Not more than 1 percent of the assets of an additional compulsory pension fund may be invested in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 9. (13) Not more than 5 percent of the assets of an additional compulsory pension fund may be invested in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 10, as not more than 1 percent of the fund's assets can be invested in special investment purpose companies, securitisation receivables. (14) Not more than 20 percent of the assets of an additional compulsory pension fund may be invested in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 11 as not more than 5 percent of the fund's assets can be invested in units of collective investment schemes managed by the same management company. (15) Not more than 1 percent of the assets of an additional compulsory pension fund may be invested in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 12. (16) Not more than 20 per cent of the assets of an additional mandatory pension fund may be denominated in a currency other than lev and euro, except for assets for which there is a limit on the foreign exchange risk through concluded hedging transactions under art. 179b. (17) Not more than 5 percent of the assets of an additional compulsory pension fund may be invested in investment property under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 13. (18) The specific requirements and restrictions on the investment of the supplementary compulsory pension fund shall be laid down in its investment policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u53	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the paragraphs 61 and 62 supported by the Commission with my new numbering. Vote 107 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 4. Paragraphs 61 and 62 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u54	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become § 63. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 60, which shall become § 64. Under § 61, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 61, which shall become § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 179c the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words shall be deleted. 2. In para. 4 the words "the vice-president of' shall be deleted and the words "Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on credit rating agencies (OJ L 302/1 of 17 November 2009.) The EFTA Surveillance Authority shall inform the European Parliament and the Council of any changes to the provisions of this Regulation and of any changes to the provisions of this Regulation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 62, which shall become § 66. Under § 63, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 63, which shall become § 67, as in para. 1 the words "the Vice-President' are deleted and the figure "the Vice-President' is replaced by "the Vice-President' and the figure "the Vice-President' is replaced by "the Vice-President' is replaced by "the Vice-President'. Under § 64, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 64, which shall become § 68: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 180b and 180c: Not applying the restrictions Art. 180b. Subject to the principles of art. 175 pension insurance company authorised to manage an additional compulsory pension fund may not apply the restrictions under art. 177a, 178 and 179a within 6 months of receipt of the authorisation. Income from investment property Art. 180c. (1) After the end of 5 years of the acquisition of each individual investment property held by the supplementary compulsory pension fund, the pension insurance company shall be obliged at the end of each quarter to compare the yield achieved on that property for the previous 60-month period with the yield achieved in the management of the fund for the same period. (2) Where the yield on the property is less than 50 percent of the yield on the management of the fund for the relevant period, the pension insurance company shall be obliged within 24 months of the establishment of that circumstance to sell the investment property at a price not lower than the market price. The occurrence of changes during the 24-month period in the yield from the investment property and/or the yield from the management of the fund does not exempt the company from this obligation. (3) The order and method for calculating and comparing the yield under para. 1 and 2 shall be determined by the Commission's regulation. Under § 65, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 65, which shall become § 69, as in para. 1 words shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 66, which shall become § 70. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 67, which shall become § 71. Under § 68, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 68, which shall become § 72. ................. Article 186a is amended as follows: Each Member State shall provide the Art. 186a. The company is obliged to submit to the Commission the monthly financial statements for the supervisory purposes of the company and its supplementary compulsory pension funds within 20 days after the end of each month. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 69, which shall become § 73.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u55	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the paragraphs supported by the Commission, which shall have a new numbering, respectively, from § 63 to § 73 inclusive. They voted 114 MPs: 111, none, abstention 3. Dear colleagues, today we have the ladies from the town. Bansko, let's say hello. [[Applause.]] Paragraphs 63 to 73 of the Commission report have been adopted. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u56	According to § 70 there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 et c. 2 and c. Three is withdrawn. There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 70, which shall become § 74, as in para. 1 in the text before point 1, the words "the Vice-President' shall be deleted, in para. 2 the words of the Vice-President of the Commission to submit to him shall be replaced by the Vice-President of the Commission or the Commission to submit to him and in para. 3 Finally, after the words....... or the Commission....................................................... is added to the Commission......................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 71, which shall become § 75. Under § 72, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 72, which shall become § 76, as in para. 1 the words of the Vice-President and the words of the President shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 73, which shall become § 77. Under § 74, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 74, which shall become § 78, by: "1." A new point 1 shall be created: "1." In para. 2 and 4 the words 2. Points 1-7 become 2-8 respectively. The Commission shall support the text of the importer of § 75 which shall become § 79. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 76, which shall become § 80. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 77, which shall become § 81. There is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 82: ............................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 213b al. 2 the words of the Vice-President of the....................................................................................................... 344, para. 1, t. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by means of
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u57	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the paragraphs with a new numbering from § 74 to § 81 and the new § 82 which are supported by the Commission. They voted 119 MPs: 117, none, abstention 2. Paragraphs 74 to 81 of the Commission report have been adopted and the new Paragraph 82 of the Commission report has also been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u58	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 78, which shall become § 83. Under § 79, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 79, which shall become § 84, as in para. 3 the words of the Vice-President shall be deleted. Under § 80, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 80, which shall become § 85, as in para. 4 the words of the Vice-President shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 81, which shall become § 86. Under § 82, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 82, which shall become § 87: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 220, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the text before t. The Commission Vice-President shall be replaced by the Vice-President of the Commission and shall be replaced by the Vice-President of the Commission. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the words after the expiry of the specified period under art. 219, para. 1 and 2 shall be replaced by the following in the definitions referred to in Article 2. 219, para. 1 term. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 shall be added at the end of the application of the implementing acts. 4. A t is created. 4. "4." the company is subject to a compulsory administrative measure under art. 344, para. 2, p. 1, 5, 11, 12 or 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 83 which shall become § 88. Under § 84, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 84, which shall become § 89: ........... 89................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 225 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The Commission Vice-President shall be replaced by the Vice-President of the Commission and shall be replaced by the Vice-President of the Commission. 2. A new para is being created. 2: The Commission may, on a proposal from the Vice-President of the Commission, withdraw the authorisation to manage an additional voluntary pension fund or an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes in the event of a gross infringement or systematic breach of that code and its implementing acts in the management of the fund. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it, the words the Vice-President of the Commission shall be replaced by the Vice-President of the Commission and shall be replaced by the Vice-President of the Commission and shall be replaced by the Vice-President of the Commission and shall be replaced by the Vice-President of the
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u59	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the paragraphs with a new numbering supported by the Commission, respectively, from § 83 to § 89 inclusive. They voted 122 MPs: 119, none, abstention 3. Paragraphs 83 to 89, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u60	There is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 90: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 227 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In the heading, the words "the Vice-President' are deleted. 2. In the text, the words "the Vice-President of the Commission' shall be replaced by "the Vice-President of the Commission'. Under § 85, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 85, which shall become § 91, as in para. 2, p. 18 words shall be deleted. Under § 86, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 86, which shall become § 92, i.e. 4 is amended as follows: "4." So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 5 and in it after the words the insured persons shall be added the persons under art. 230, para. 3, p. 2-4 and para. 4 t. The words "Deputy Vice-President" shall be taken into account. Under § 87, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version for § 87, which becomes § 93: ..... 93......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 229a the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words the Vice-President of the Commission on which he has established shall be replaced by the Chair of the Vice-President of the Commission and shall be replaced by the Vice-President of the Commission. 2. In para. 4 the words of the Vice-President shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 88, which shall become § 94. Under § 89, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 89, which shall become § 95: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 229c the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 11, 12 and 15 shall be deleted. 2. In para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 3. In para. 9 sentence first, the words "the Vice-President' shall be deleted and, in a sentence second, the words "the Vice-President' shall be replaced by "the Vice-President'. 4. In para. 13 the words the Vice-President of the Commission, the competent authority of the host Member State may, after informing the Vice-President of the Commission, be replaced by the Vice-President of the Commission or by the Commission, the competent authority of the host Member State may, after informing the Commission. 5. In para. 15 words shall be replaced by a Commission regulation by the Vice-President of the Commission. Under § 90, there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version for § 90, which becomes § 96: ...... 96........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 229d The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 sentence first, the words "the Vice-President' shall be deleted and, in a sentence second, the words "the Vice-President of the Committee' shall be replaced by "the Vice-President'. 2. In para. The 3th sentence first the words the Vice-President of the Committee shall be replaced by the Vice-President of the Committee and the Committee shall be exercised and, in a sentence, the second words shall be replaced by the Committee shall be replaced by the Committee shall be notified. 3. In para. 4 in the text before point 1 after the words Under § 91, there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 91, which shall become § 97: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: S.A., S.A. 1, t. 3 words.............................................................................. 344, para. 1, t. 3, 14-17 and para. 2, p. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 344, para. 2, p. 5, 11, 12, 13, 16 and 17........................................................................................... 346a, para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 346a, para. The following The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 92, which shall become § 98. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 93, which shall become § 99. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 94, which shall become § 100. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for § 95, 96, 97 and 98 with the corresponding numbering of the paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u61	Colleagues, speeches? I shall put to the vote the texts supported by the committee, including the creation of a new § 90 and paragraphs 91 to 104 inclusive. Voting mode. They voted 124 MPs: 122, none, abstention 2. Thus, the new § 90 created was adopted on the Commission's report and also paragraphs 91 to 104, including the Commission's report. Colleagues, may I introduce: guests from the UNWE are on the balcony. Students at the Department of Political Sciences. [[Applause.]] Continue, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u62	Under § 99, there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 99, which shall become § 105: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 246 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 2 and 3 words shall be deleted. 2. A new para is being created. 2: In calculating the pension under para. 1 the life expectancy cannot be higher than that set out in the biometric tables. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes respectively. 3 and in it the words of the Vice-President of the........ are deleted.......................................................... are 4. Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 become respectively. 4 and 5. 5. Previously on AMC's... 5 and 6 become respectively. 6 and 7 and in them, the words "the Vice-President of the...................' are deleted.................................................................................. are 6. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 and amended as follows: In the cases referred to in para. 6 and 7 the committee on a proposal from the Vice-President of the Commission shall rule by a decision within one month of receipt of the tables and, where the Vice-President of the Commission has requested the submission of additional documents and/or information within a specified period of time, or has given instructions to correct technical errors in the calculations or non-compliance with the provisions of that Code, the implementing acts or official statistical information on which the biometric tables are based within one month of their submission. Where the documents or information requested have not been submitted, the Commission shall rule within one month of the expiry of the period set by the Vice-President of the Commission for their submission. The applicant shall be notified in writing of the decision taken within 7 days. 7. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 9 and in it: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words the Vice-President of the Committee shall be replaced by the Vice-President of the Committee and shall be replaced by the Vice-President of the Committee. 1 the word "codex' shall be replaced by "this code and its implementing acts'; (b) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. no additional documents or information have been submitted, errors or discrepancies have not been corrected or new ones have been made. 8. They're creating an al. 10, 11, 12, and 13: In the event of a change in the amount of the technical interest rate, the pension insurance company shall submit to the Commission a reasoned proposal requesting its approval. (11) The Commission shall, on a proposal from the Vice-President of the Commission, decide within one month from the submission of the request for approval of the technical interest rate and, where the Vice-President of the Commission has requested the submission of additional documents and/or information within a period specified by him, or has given instructions for the removal of technical errors or non-compliance with the provisions of that Code, its implementing acts or other documents Where the documents or information requested have not been submitted, the Commission shall rule within one month of the expiry of the period set for their submission. The applicant shall be notified in writing of the decision taken within 7 days. (12) The Commission shall refuse to approve proposals by the pension insurance company of the technical interest rate where: 1. the requirements of this Code and its implementing acts are not complied with; 2. the proposal submitted by the company does not justify it; 3. no additional documents or information have been submitted, errors or discrepancies have not been corrected or new ones have been admitted. (13) In the event of significant changes in the conditions under which the technical interest rate has been approved, the Commission may oblige the pension insurance company to make the necessary changes in the amount of the technical interest rate and present it for approval. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 100, which shall become § 106. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 101, which shall become § 107. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 102, which shall become § 108. Under § 103, there is a proposal made by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 103, which shall become § 109: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 251 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 1 s 8 are amended as follows: Not more than 5 per cent of the assets of an additional voluntary pension fund, respectively, of a supplementary voluntary pension fund under professional schemes, may be invested in financial instruments issued by one issuer. Within this limit: 1. do not include debt securities under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 1 letters...................................................................................................................... 2. do not include debt securities under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 1 point (c) with an investment credit rating; 3. where the issuer is a bank, the deposits of the fund in that bank shall also be included, the value of the reverse repo transactions with it under art. 179a, para. 1 and the net exposure value of forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts to the same bank; 4. where the issuer is a financial institution, the value of the net exposure to forward currency contracts and its interest rate swap contracts shall also be included. (2) The total value of the investment of an additional voluntary pension fund, respectively of an additional voluntary pension fund under occupational schemes, in financial instruments issued by companies of one group and the persons with whom those companies are in close links shall not exceed 10 percent of the fund's assets. This restriction shall also include: 1. the deposits of the fund in banks of the group and in banks located in close links with companies of the group, the value of the reverse repo transactions under art. 179a, para. 1 with those banks and the value of the net exposure to them under forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts; 2. the value of the net exposure to forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts with financial institutions of the group and financial institutions located in close links with companies of the group. (3) Not more than 5 per cent of the assets of an additional voluntary pension fund, respectively, of an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes, may be invested in deposits in one bank. (4) Not more than 2 percent of the assets of an additional voluntary pension fund, respectively, of an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes, may be invested in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 7. (5) Not more than 3 percent of the assets of an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes may be invested in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t.8. (6) Not more than 2 percent of the assets of an additional voluntary pension fund, respectively, of an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes, may be invested in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 9. (7) Not more than 10 percent of the assets of an additional voluntary pension fund, respectively, of an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes, may be invested in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 10, with no more than 2 percent of the assets of the fund concerned can be invested in special investment purpose companies, securitisation receivables. (8) Not more than 10 per cent of the assets of an additional voluntary pension fund, respectively, of an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes, may be invested in shares or shares of collective investment schemes managed by the same management company. 2. A new para is being created. 9. Not more than 2 per cent of the assets of an additional voluntary pension fund, respectively, of an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes, may be invested in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 12. 3. Previously on AMC's... 9-11 becomes respectively. 10-12. 4. They're creating an al. 13-15: Not more than 30 percent of the assets of an additional voluntary pension fund, respectively, of a supplementary voluntary pension fund under professional schemes, may be denominated in a currency other than lev and euro, except for assets for which there is a limitation of the foreign exchange risk through concluded hedging transactions under art. 179b. (14) Not more than 10 percent of the assets of the supplementary voluntary pension funds can be invested in investment property under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 13, as the investment in one property may not exceed 5 percent of the assets of the funds. (15) Specific requirements and restrictions on investment shall be defined in the investment policy of the Fund concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u63	Mrs. Angelova, I must ask you to read once again para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u64	Not more than 3 per cent of the assets of an additional voluntary pension fund, respectively, of a supplementary voluntary pension fund under professional schemes, may be invested in financial instruments under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u65	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 105 to 109, including a new numbering, supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 108 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 3. Paragraphs 105 to 109, including the Commission report, have been adopted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u66	Paragraph 104. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 104, which shall become § 110, as in para. 1 sentence second, the words "the Vice-President' are deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 105, which shall become § 111. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 112: .......... 112.................... 112................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 251c, sentence 1, first, the words defined by the Vice-President of the Commission Paragraph 106. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 106, which shall become § 113: ................. 113............................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In the title, the word "the fund' is replaced by "the funds'. 2. In para. The second sentence of the second sentence shall be replaced by a regulation by the committee's Vice-President. 3. In para. 3 the words of the Vice-President shall be deleted. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 107, which becomes § 114. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 108, which becomes § 115. Paragraphs 109, 110, 111, 119, 113, 114 are renumbered accordingly. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the paragraphs with the corresponding renumbering.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u67	We come to § 114, which becomes § 121. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I vote on the Commission's support of § 110, 111, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 119 and 121 and the new § 112. Vote 113 MPs: 111, no objection, abstention 2. We therefore adopted paragraphs 110 to 121 of the Commission Report and the newly created § 112.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u68	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 122: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In the heading, the words "the Vice-President' are deleted. 2. In the text, the words "The Vice-President of the Committee" are replace by......................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 115, which shall become § 123. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 124: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 317, para. 3 the words of the Vice-President shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 116, which shall become § 125. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 117, which shall become § 126. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 127: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 326, para. 2 the words of the Vice-President shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u69	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote paragraphs with a new numbering of 123, 125 and 126 and the new paragraphs 122, 124 and 127, supported by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 113, none, abstention 2. Paragraphs 122, § 123, new § 124, § 125, § 126 and new § 127 of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u70	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 118, which shall become § 128. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 129: "§ 129. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 329 words Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 130: '§ 130. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 330 words shall be deleted and the words shall be replaced by the Vice-President in front of him and the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 119, which shall become § 131. Paragraph 120. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 120, which shall become § 132: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 331 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. The title is amended as follows: 122f, para. 1, t. 2 and 6 and para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter 2. In para. 5 in the text before t. 1 words shall be deleted. 3. In para. The Commission Vice-President shall be replaced by the Vice-President of the Commission on a proposal from the Vice-President of the Commission and shall be replaced by the Vice-President of the Commission. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 121, which shall become § 133. Paragraph 122. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 122, which shall become § 134: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para 1 in the text before t. 1 words shall be deleted. 2. In para. 2 the words the Vice-President of the Committee shall be replaced by the Committee on a proposal from the Vice-President of the Committee. 3. In para. 4 the words of the Vice-President shall be deleted. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 135: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 337 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. The Vice-President of the Commission shall have the right to control the actions of the Head of Mission shall be replaced by the Vice-President on a proposal from the Vice-President. 2. In para. 2 the words of the Vice-President shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 123, which shall become § 136. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 124, which shall become § 137. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 125, which shall become § 138. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 126, which shall become § 139.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u71	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the new § 129, new § 130, § 131 to 134, new § 135 and § 136 to 139 inclusive. 110 MPs voted: 109, none, abstention 1. By this they were adopted under the Commission Report § 128, the two new paragraphs 129 and 130 paragraphs 131 to 134 inclusive, § 135 new and § 136 to 139 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u72	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 127, which shall become § 140.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u73	Is there a statement under § 127 that becomes § 140? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 140. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. Thus § 140 of the Commission Report was adopted. Colleagues, take a 30-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u74	We last voted § 127, which becomes § 140.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u75	Under § 128, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 128, which shall become § 141: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 344 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) points 2 (b) points 13 s 17 are repealed; c) create t. 18 and 19: 18. impose a temporary ban on the performance of the functions of a member of the management body or control body or of another person authorised to manage and/or represent the company for additional social security; 19. oblige the company for additional social security to limit its operating costs, including as a percentage of the total net revenue when the requirements of art. 121c, para. 4, 11 and 12 or there is an immediate danger of their breach. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Commission may, on a proposal from the Vice-President of the Commission, apply the following compulsory administrative measures: 1. appoint a Quaestor in the cases provided for in this Code; 2. to appoint at the expense of the company for additional social security in the cases under para. 1: (a) a registered auditor; (b) an external independent expert for assessing the assets of the Additional Social Insurance Fund and/or the company for supplementary social security; (c) an external independent expert for assessing the management system of the company or its individual functions; (d) an actuarial actuary with recognised competence to carry out an actuarial inspection; 3. order in writing the release of one or more persons authorised to manage and represent an additional social security company in the cases under para. 1; 4. to make mandatory prescriptions for necessary changes to the rules of the supplementary social security funds and other internal acts adopted by the company for additional social security as required by this Code and its implementing acts; 5. prohibit the conclusion of new insurance contracts for a certain period; 6. to convene the General Meeting of Shareholders or to schedule a meeting of the Governing Council and the Supervisory Board (the Board of Directors) to decide on the measures to be taken; 7. to oblige the pension insurance company in writing to increase its capital within a specified time limit; 8. ban the temporary payment of dividends; 9. oblige the company for additional social security to terminate its contractual relationship with a guardian bank, with an investment firm or with an insurance intermediary if they do not meet the requirements laid down in the Code; 10. suspend the execution of a decision or order of the management bodies of the company for additional social security, which concerns the activities of additional social security if it violates the requirements of the regulatory acts on additional social security; 11. to withdraw permission to manage an additional social security fund; 12. limit the activities of the pension insurance company in the cases under para. 1 by prohibiting it from carrying out certain transactions, activities and/or operations; 13. to withdraw a licence for additional social security in the cases provided for in this Code; 14. to temporarily prohibit a shareholder from exercising his right to vote if the requirements of art. 121g, para. 1 15. to order the shareholder in writing to transfer the shares held by him within a specified period if the requirements of art. 121g, para. 1 16. prohibit the pension insurance company from accepting and managing funds under a relevant professional scheme; 17. prohibit or restrict the activities of the pension insurance company abroad; 18. impose a temporary ban on the performance of the functions of a member of the management or control body or of another person authorised to manage and/or represent the company for additional social security; 19. oblige the company for additional social security to limit its operating costs, including as a percentage of the total net revenue when the requirements of art. 121c, para. 4, 11 and 12 or there is an imminent danger of their breach; 20. prohibit the foreign institution from managing a professional scheme of the insurance provider concerned. 3. In para. 4 the words "persons who carry out executive functions" shall be replaced by "persons of office." 4. A new para is being created. 5. The measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1 and 2 shall also apply in cases of infringement of an act of a European Union authority with direct effect which confers obligations on the persons referred to in para. 4 in relation to the activities of supplementary social security. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes respectively. 6. 6. So far, the Al. 6 becomes respectively. 7 and in the sentence first, the words "the Vice-President of the Commission" shall be replaced by "the Vice-President of the Commission" and in the sentence second, the words "the Vice-President" shall be deleted. 7. So far, the Al. 7 becomes respectively. 8. 8. The creation of para. 9. The order and method of appointment of the persons referred to in para. 2, p. 2 and their requirements shall be determined by a Commission regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u76	Continue, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u77	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 129, which shall become § 142: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 345, para. 1 after the words..................................................................................... 344, para. A comma shall be placed and added to the list. 346a, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, Paragraph 130. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 130, which shall become § 143, as in para. 1 words shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 131 and 132, which shall become paragraphs 144 and 145 respectively. Paragraph 133. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version in § 133, which shall become § 146: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Article 351 is amended as follows: ? Responsible for violations of the regulatory framework Art. 351. (1) Whoever commits or permits an infringement shall: Article 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 121d, para. Art. 15, art. Art. 121h, Art. 123d, para. 4 and 6.. 16................................................................................................. 123z, 135, 142a, art. 143, para. Art. 3, Art. 144, para. Art. 5, art. 145, para. Art. 3, Art. 153, 154, 173, art. 188, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Article 216, 216a, Art. ) (a.k.a. Art. 4, Art. Article 223, 224, Art. 229, para. Art. 5, art. 229a, para. Art. 4, Art. Article 229c. 230, para. Art. 5 and 6, Art. Art. 231, 233, Art. 235, para. Art. 3, Art. Art. 235a, Art. 236, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 237, 238, 239, 240, 248, 248a, 248b, 317, art. 326, para. Art. 2, Art. 327, para. Art. 3, Art. Article 330 331, para. 5, is punished with a fine of 700 to 10 000 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Art. 2. Art. 121e, para. 3, art. 122a, para. Art. 4, Art. 122nd, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 122k, Art. 123, para. Art. 1, art. 123c, 123f, art.123e1, para. Art. 1, Art. 9, Art. Art. 123g. 123th, para. Article 5 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). Art. 123i1, Art. 129, para. 1.. 8 and 10.. 11........................................................................................ 131, 139, 142, 169, 169a, 169b, 170, 175a, 176 177, 177a, 178, 179, 179a, art. 179b, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Article 179c, Art. 180, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 180a, 180c, art. 181, para. Art. 1, art. 185, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 186, 186a, 187, art. 187a, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 190, 192, art. 193, para. Art. 5, Art. 11, Art. 201, 202, 212, art. 213, para. Article 4 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 213a, para. 2 and 4 "5" art. Art. 213b. 229d, para. Art. 1, art. 234, para. 1.. 8 and 10.. 13......................................................................................... 241, 241a, 245, art. 246, para. Art. 1, Art. 6, Art. 249, 251a, 251b, 251c, 252, art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. Art. 1, art. 257, 258, 319, art. 325, para. Art. 2, Art. 332, 336, Art. 340, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Art. 342, Art. Council Regulation (EC) No 1688/2001 of 22 December 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1688/2001 on the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EEC) No 1088/98 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 96). Art. 3 and Art. 348, para. A fine of BGN 1500 to BGN 20 000 is punishable by a fine.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Art. 3. 121, para. 1 suppl. 5, 121a, 121b, art. 121c, para. 1 six, eight, and ten, art. 14, art. Art. 121d, Art. 121e, para. Art. 2 and 4, Art. 121g, para. Art. 3 and 5, Art. 122g, 123a, 123b, 123e, 126, art. 154a, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 203, Art. No. 209, para. Art. 3, Art. 226, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 259, Art. 322, para. 7, is punished with a fine of 3,000 to 40,000 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. outside the cases under point 4. 1, 2 or 3 of Part Two or Part Two of the Act on the application of this Code and/or of an act of a body of direct effect which confers obligations in the performance of the activities of additional social security shall be punishable by a fine of 700 to 10 000 BGN. (2) In the case of a repeated infringement under para. 1 the guilty person shall be punished with a fine in the amount as follows: 1. for violations under para. 1, t. From 2000 to 20 000 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for violations of para. 1, t. 2 - from 4000 to 40,000 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. for violations under para. 1, t. From 8,000 to 80,000 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. for violations of para. 1, t. 4 - from 1000 to 20 000 leva. (3) For violations under para. 1 legal persons shall be subject to a financial penalty in amounts as follows: 1. for violations under para. 1, t. 1 from 10 000 to 50 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 30 000 to 100 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for violations of para. 1, t. 2 - from 20 000 to 100 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 40,000 to 200 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. for violations under para. 1, t. 3 - from 40,000 to 200 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 80 000 to 400 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. for violations of para. 1, t. 4 - from 5000 to 50 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 15 000 to 100 000 BGN. (4) Whoever provides or allows false information in connection with the implementation of the insurance supervision shall be punished with a fine from 10 000 to 50 000 BGN when the act does not constitute a crime. (5) For the violation of para. 4 the pension insurance company is subject to a penalty of 20 000 to 150 000 BGN. (6) A person engaged as an insurance intermediary without a contract with a pension insurance company shall be required: 1. fine from 1500 to 10 000 lv. For a natural person; 2. Financial sanction from 4000 to 50,000 BGN For a legal person or a sole trader. (7) Income acquired from the activity unlawfully carried out shall be deducted for the benefit of the State to the extent that they cannot be recovered to the injured persons. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for § 134 and 135, which shall become § 147 and 148 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u78	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the paragraphs supported by the Commission by a new numbering, respectively, § 141, 142, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147 and 148. They voted 104 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 4. Paragraphs 141 to 148 have been adopted on the Commission report. As soon as we get back, colleagues, to § 28, which becomes § 30. I didn't read it for a vote. This paragraph shall be supported by the Commission. Please vote for § 28, which becomes § 30. 99 MPs voted: 93, none, abstention 6. Paragraph 30 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u79	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 136, which shall become § 149. Under § 137, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Yordan Tsonev, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 137, which shall become § 150: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In § 1, para. 2 of the additional provisions the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. point 3 is amended as follows: "3." The following are related persons: (a) legal persons subject to any of the following conditions: (aa) they are a parent undertaking and/or subsidiaries of the same group (i.e. each parent, subsidiary and other subsidiary undertaking is related to the others; (bb) one of them participates in or is a joint company of the other company or is a joint company of a parent undertaking or a subsidiary of a group in which the other company is a parent undertaking or subsidiary; (c) both companies are joint companies of the same third party; (d) one of them is a joint company of, and one third party is involved in, the other; (e) one of them is controlled or controlled jointly by a natural person who is located in relations with the other legal person under point (b); (f) in respect of one of them, a natural person who is located in relations with the other legal person under point (b) (i) of point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, has a significant influence or holds a position in it or in its parent undertaking; (b) a legal person and a natural person if the natural person or a close member of his family: (aa) exercise control or joint control of the legal person; (bb) exert a significant influence on the legal person; or (c) hold a leading position in the legal person or in the parent undertaking of the legal person. For the purposes of point (a) (i) (ii) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the basic Regulation, a company shall be considered to have joint control with another person; the subsidiaries of the joint company shall also be considered to be joint companies of the joint company. Within the meaning of point (b) of the first subparagraph, close family members of a family shall be family members who may influence or may be influenced by that person in his dealings with the legal person, including: his children and spouse, the person with whom he is in actual cohabitation, the children of that person and the persons who are dependent on him or the person with whom he or she has actual cohabitation. For the purposes of point (a) and (b) of point (a) of point (a) of point (a) of Article 2 (1), the person concerned shall be in possession of direct and/or through a controlled person/person 20 or more than 20 per cent of the capital or votes in the general meeting of the legal person and the total amount of the participation shall be equal to the sum of the directly held votes and votes held by the controlled persons. For the purposes of point (a) (i) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following definitions shall apply: 2. Points 3a and 3b are inserted: 3a. "Narrow links' are available where two or more natural or legal persons are connected by control or participation, or where two or more natural or legal persons are permanently linked to the same person through control relations. In cases referred to in art. 177, para. 1, t. 2 and para. 2, p. 4 and 5 the designation of persons who are in close links pursuant to the first sentence shall be limited to legal persons and shall be made on the basis of publicly available information. 3b. "Participation" is available where one person owns directly or indirectly 20 or more than 20 per cent of the capital or votes in the general meeting of a company. 3. Point 4: (a) in (a) in (i) in (i) in (ii) in (iii) in (iii) in (iv) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) (b) the first paragraph after (d) shall be amended as follows: In the cases referred to in points (a) and (b) and (d) to the votes of the controller shall be added: (aa) the votes of the legal persons over which it exercises control; (bb) the votes of the persons acting on their behalf, but on their behalf or at the expense of a legal person controlled by them; (c) the indirect holding of votes in the capital of the legal person under which control is assessed, calculated as the product of the participation of the controller in the capital of the person by which indirect participation is held, and the participation of that person in the capital of the legal person under which control is assessed, by: (aaa) where more than one intermediate is present in the line of indirect possession of the product, the participation of the intermediary concerned in the capital of the other shall also be included; (bbb) The sum of indirectly held by the controlling votes in the capital of the legal person to which control is assessed on each line shall be used for indirect ownership of more than one line. 4. The following points 4a 4e are inserted: 4a. A parent undertaking is a legal person exercising control over one or more companies (daughter companies). 4b. A subsidiary company is a legal entity controlled by another legal entity (mother); legal entities that are subsidiaries of the subsidiary are also considered to be subsidiaries of the parent undertaking. 4c. The group is a group of companies consisting of: (a) a parent undertaking and its subsidiaries; and the group shall include the companies in which the parent undertaking or its subsidiaries are involved; or (b) companies which are managed in general by virtue of their contract or founding acts or statutes; or (c) companies in which more than half of the members of their management or control bodies are the same persons during the financial year concerned and until the date of drawing up the consolidated financial statement. 4d. In the case of persons acting in agreement, two or more persons who, according to the nature of the relationship between them or between them and a third party, according to their market behaviour or their commercial transactions, can reasonably assume that they exercise or will exercise the rights relating to their direct or indirect shareholder participation in the company for additional social security, in accordance with an explicit or tacit agreement between them. 4d. "Qualified participation" is a direct or indirect participation of 10 or more per cent of the capital or of the voting rights of the General Assembly, determined pursuant to art. 145 and 146 of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, or which makes it possible to have a significant impact on the management of the company. When determining the amount of qualified participation, the voting rights or shares held by investment firms or banks as a result of the provision of services under art. 5, para. 2, p. 6 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act, provided that those rights are not exercised or otherwise used to influence the management of the company for additional social security and provided that those rights are transferred within one year of the acquisition. 5. Points 5 and 6 shall be repealed. 6. In point 7, after the word "retirement', the technical report shall be added. 7. point 9 is amended as follows: Nine. In the event of a failure to comply with this Code, the Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the other Member States and the Commission of any measures taken to comply with this Regulation. 8. In point 11, the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'. 9. Points 14 "16" are amended as follows: It's 14 years old. The amount to be reported shall be the sum of the amounts reported in this item and shall be the sum of the amounts reported in this item. 100z, para. 1 of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. 15. "Repo transaction" and "Reverse repurchase transaction" is any agreement whereby financial instruments are transferred by undertaking to redeem them (or exchange with financial instruments with the same characteristics) at a specific price at a specific future date or date to be determined by the transferor. The agreement is a repo deal for the country selling the financial instruments and a reverse transaction for the country buying them. 16. It is a collective investment scheme: (a) an undertaking within the meaning of § 1, t. 10 of the additional provisions of the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and of other collective investment undertakings; (b) a collective investment enterprise under art. 38, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on the Activity of collective investment schemes and of other collective investment undertakings. 10. Points 17 and 18 are repealed. 11. Points 19 and 20 are amended as follows: "19." An option is a derivative financial instrument that expresses the right to purchase or sell a certain number of securities or other financial instruments at a fixed price at a fixed price by the end of a specified period or at a specified date. 20. "Futures' is a derivative financial instrument which expresses the right and obligation to purchase or sell a certain number of securities or other financial instruments at a fixed price at a fixed date. 12. point 22 is amended as follows: "22." The property is an investment property within the meaning of International Accounting Standard 40. 13. The following points 31. "33" shall be inserted: ..31. ==References====External links==*Authority: (a) occupied as a member of a management, control or management body of a legal person designated by law, statutes or other establishment act, and as a prosecutor of such a person; (b) including the performance of management and/or control functions of a structural unit directly related to the performance of the principal activity and functions of an institution or the main subject of the activity of a company or entity according to their internal structure. 32. A regulated market is a market within the meaning of art. 73 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act. 33. The code of the legal entity is an international 20-digit alphanumeric code allowing unique identification of the legal entities involved in the global financial markets.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u80	Statements, coworkers? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote § 149 and 150 with the new numbering supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 110, none, abstention 4. Paragraphs 149 and 150 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u81	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 138, which shall become § 151. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 152: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Transitional and Final Provisions § 22e is repealed. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 153: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Code on compulsory social security, § 116 is repealed. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u82	Statements? I can't see. Colleagues, I put to the vote the paragraphs with a new numbering supported by the Commission. These are paragraphs 151, 152 and 153 new paragraphs and the name "Transitional and Final Provisions'. Please vote. They voted 119 MPs: 115, none, abstention 4. Paragraphs 151 and 152, 153 and the name of the division have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u83	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes in the Transitional and Final Provisions to establish § 154: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) The persons of whom less than 5 years remain until 31 December 2018 until their age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and to which no pension for insurance service and age has been granted may, by 31 December 2018, exercise the right to choose under art. 4b to change their insurance from a universal pension fund in the Fund. 69 The State Social Security, by the order of the ordinance under art. 179, para. 3 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. (2) Persons who have been granted pension for internship and age with a starting date between 15 August 2015 and 31 December 2017 including, with a reduced individual coefficient according to art. 70, para. 7 shall be entitled by 31 December 2018 to request its recalculation without reduction of the individual coefficient if they transfer the funds from their individual account to a universal pension fund in the Fund of Pensions, respectively the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. 69, of state social security. The transfer of funds shall be made by a person or person authorised by a notary certified power of attorney. The application shall be submitted to the relevant pension insurance company managing the fund in which the person is insured through the territorial division of the National Insurance Institute that pays the pension at the same time as the application for recalculation of the pension. The samples of applications shall be validated by the manager of the National Insurance Institute. (3) The retirement pension shall be recalculated from the first number of the month following the month of submission of the application under para. 2. (4) The National Insurance Institute shall send applications under para. 2 to transfer funds to the pension corporations concerned by the first working day of the month following their submission. On the first working day of the month following the month of submission of applications, the pension insurance company shall calculate the amount of the individual accounts of the persons concerned by the value of one share valid for the previous working day and shall close their individual accounts. (5) The National Insurance Institute shall send information to the National Revenue Agency for the applications submitted under para. 2 for the transfer of funds to the day following the date of their submission. (6) Within 7 days of issuing an order for recalculation of the pension without reduction of the individual coefficient, the territorial division of the National Insurance Institute shall send by electronic means in a format established by the manager of the National Insurance Institute, information about this to the relevant pension insurance company, which shall, within one month of receipt, transfer the accumulated funds into the individual account of the insured person in the universal pension fund of the Fund of the National Insurance Institute, respectively the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. 69, of state social security. In the event of a default for recalculation of the pension, the company shall resume keeping the account from the date of its closure. (7) At the same time as the translation of the funds under para. 6 The pension insurance company shall send electronically to the National Insurance Institute information on the amount of funds transferred from each individual account in a format validated by the manager of the institute. Within 7 days of the translation, the company shall send to the insured persons with a return receipt extracts from their individual accounts and inform them of the transfer of funds made. (8) From the first day of the month following the month in which the application for the reclaim of the pension has been submitted, all contributions due to the person for additional compulsory pension insurance in a universal pension fund shall be transferred to the Fund of Pensions, respectively the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. 69, of state social security. Within 7 days of issuing a waiver order for the recalculation of the pension, the National Insurance Institute shall send electronic information about this to the National Revenue Agency. Within 10 days of receipt of the information on the surrender, the National Revenue Agency shall transfer all contributions due to the person for additional compulsory pension insurance to a universal pension fund on account of the relevant universal pension fund in which the person was provided prior to the submission of the application under para. 2. (9) In cases of infringement of para. 4, 6, 7 and para. 8th sentence first, the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of the Management Board, shall apply the measure under art. 344, para. 1, t. 1 and/or imposes in the order of art. 354 respectively administrative punishment under art. Art. 351 or art. the following point is inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council: According to § 139 the proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 et c. 2 concerning para. 3 a t. 2 concerning para. Four and five are withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Rumen Gechev from the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 139, which shall become § 155: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) Within 18 months of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal of the European Union, pension companies shall be obliged to bring their activities beyond that under para. 3 in accordance with that law and the implementing acts of the Code and submit documents certifying compliance to the Financial Supervision Commission. (2) Within 18 months of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal of the European Union, the banks are obliged to bring their activities into line with this law and the implementing acts of the Code and to submit documents certifying compliance to the Bulgarian National Bank and to the Financial Supervision Commission. (3) By 31 December 2021 pension insurance companies shall be required to comply with the investment activity requirements laid down in this Act, the assets held by the supplementary pension funds they manage, which at the date of its entry into force do not meet those requirements.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u84	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 154 and § 155, which has a new numbering, supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 110, none, abstention 4. The new § 154 and § 155 were adopted under the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u85	According to § 140 the proposal from the National Representative Rumen Gechev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 140, which shall become § 156: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) Within 14 months of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal of the European Union, members of the management and control bodies, representatives of legal entities in the control bodies and prosecutors of pension insurance companies shall submit applications under art. 121d, para. 10 which shall be dealt with in accordance with Article 10. 121d, para. 11 and 12. The persons who manage and represent pension insurance companies shall also provide evidence, including declarations that the requirements of art. 121e, para. 1 and 3. (2) In the cases referred to in art. 121d, para. 13, as well as where no application has been submitted within the period under para. 1. The Financial Supervision Commission shall apply the measure referred to in Article 1. 344, para. 2, p. 3.................................................................................. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 141, which becomes § 157: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. A pension insurance company that manages an additional compulsory pension fund which, at the date of entry into force of this law, holds investment property shall apply the requirement to compare each quarter of the income obtained from an investment property according to art. 180c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 180c, para. 2 as regards the investment property held by the fund after the end of 5 years after the entry into force of this Act. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 141, which shall become § 158: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Within one month of the entry into force of this Act, pension insurance companies authorised to manage an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes until it enters into force shall submit applications for the issuance of identification codes to the legal entity for themselves and to the supplementary pension fund managed by them under professional schemes. According to § 142 the proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 142, which shall become § 159: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) The proceedings initiated until the entry into force of this law before the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of the Management Board, shall be completed in the current order. (2) Published until the entry into force of this law and under the order of para. 1 authorisations, approvals and registrations by the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, responsible for management, shall be maintained. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 143, which shall become § 160. According to § 144 the proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 144, which shall become § 161: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Financial Supervision Commission Act shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, p. 3 after the words the additional social security is placed and the words of the funds managed by them are replaced by the funds managed by them and by the intermediaries managed by them. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) point 2 is repealed; (b) points 3 and 4 are amended as follows: "3." issue or refuse to issue authorisations and approvals in the cases provided for in the supplementary social security regulations; 4. approve documents and determine the requirements for them in the cases laid down in the supplementary social security regulations; (c) point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. approve forms of declarations, reports, reports, references and other documents under Part Two of the Social Security Code; (d) c. 10 the words the management bodies shall be replaced by the management bodies, control bodies and other bodies. (e) a new item shall be created. 14: It's 14 years old. lodges claims for: (a) the finding of inadmissible or nullity of entries in the Trade Register, as well as the non-existent of a recorded circumstance; (b) a declaration of nullity of transactions relating to the activities of companies for supplementary social security and the funds managed by them, concluded in breach of the Code of Social Security and its implementing acts; (c) annulment of a decision of the General Assembly of a supplementary social security company where the decision is contrary to the provisions of the Code of Social Security or the company's statutes; the action shall be brought against the company before the district court at its headquarters within 14 days of knowledge of the decision, but not later than three months after the General Assembly is held. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 162: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Insurance Code of art. Paragraph 21 is created. 6: The insurance undertaking carrying out the life insurance activity shall not apply the requirements set out in Part Two, Title Three of this Code if the insurance payments vary according to the funds available and the contributions of each of the members of the cooperative are equal for all amounts. Part Two, Title Four of this Code shall apply to the mutual insurance cooperative by sentence. According to § 145 there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and 2, a t. 2 is reflected in its systematic place as § 157. Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal referred to in point (a) and (b), i.e. 1 and 2, para. 2, 3 and 5, and by para. 4 and 6 is withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 145, which shall become § 163: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Paragraphs 1, 32 and 154 shall enter into force from 1 January 2018. (2) Paragraphs 43, 56, 91, 106, 115 and § 138, p. 2 shall enter into force from 1 April 2018. (3) Paragraph 5, p. 2 and 4, § 6-14, § 19, § 20, p. 1 letter (s), (b) and (c), 2 (a), (b) and (c) 3, 4 and 5, § 24-25, § 27-30, § 36, p. 2, § 44-49, § 58, t. 1, § 59-65, § 66, t. 2 (a) § 67-76, § 78, § 85-89, § 92-94, § 95, p. 1, § 108-111, § 114, § 117-123, § 125-126, § 128-129, § 141, p. 1 letter (s), point (c), point (d), point (e), point (i) and point (i) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013. 2 (d) (i.e. 8, § 145-146, § 150, § 158 and § 160 shall enter into force 12 months after the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u86	Only § 114, because you read it.. In front of 114 to put a paragraph, not a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u87	..§ 108-111, § 114....
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u88	That's right. Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the new numbering supported by the Commission § 156, new § 157 paragraphs 158 to 163, including the paragraphs supported by the Commission. Vote 117 MPs: 113, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 156, the new § 157 and paragraphs 158 to 163, and thus the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 702-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2017. [[Applause.]] Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR EMPLOYMENT DEPRECTION. A report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u89	Madam President, honourable Members! I will first make a procedure for admission to the Chamber on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Mrs. Elka Dimitrova, Director of the Directorate of Labour Market Policy and Labour Mobility in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u90	We're voting admission to the House. 100 MPs voted: 98 against 2, no abstentions. Please invite the guests. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u91	♪ I can't believe for the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act, No 702-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 October 2017. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 25 October 2017, examined and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Employment Promotion Act, No 702-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 October 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Elka Dimitrova, Director of the Department of Labour Market Policy and Labour mobility in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Lazar Lazarov. According to the reasons of the Bill, the main changes include: - dropping the requirement that natural and legal persons applying for registration to carry out an activity as an undertaking providing temporary work apply a copy of the registration document or a unique identification code; - the form of the application for registration shall be aligned with the proposed amendment and the text for the application of a copy of the registration document or a unique identification code shall be deleted; - in the event of notification of changes and/or additions to the circumstances entered in the documents which served as grounds for registration, undertakings providing temporary work shall not submit copies of those documents to the Employment Agency. The employment agency will check in the official order and in existing public registers the following: - the necessary circumstances relating to natural and legal persons applying for and operating as undertakings providing temporary employment; - the necessary circumstances relating to the natural and legal persons applying for registration for an intermediary employment activity. The importers of the Bill expect that the proposed Bill will reduce the number of documents presented in the registration and implementation of the activity as an undertaking that provides temporary work. The administrative costs of the business will be reduced, the existing registration regime will be eased and the quality of the services provided by the Employment Agency for the business will be improved. A partial impact assessment form has been attached to the Bill. A reference from the Ministry of Justice is also applied, according to art. 28, para. 3 of the Law on Legislative Acts, on the compliance of the Bill with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. According to the reference, the proposed bill does not create any legal prerequisites for conflicting with the provisions of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. A reference has also been attached which reflects the proposals received during the public consultation of the Bill. The Commission received an opinion on the draft Law by the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria. It expresses support for the main objectives of the Bill and related amendments and additions. In the condemnation it became clear that if the bill was supported, two effects would be achieved. The first relates to the possibility for natural and legal persons providing temporary work to submit a smaller number of documents. This will reduce the overall administrative costs of the business. The second effect relates to the possibility for the Employment Agency to ease registration, improve the quality of services provided and reduce the administrative burden for business. The Agency will check in public registers the necessary circumstances relating to the registration of natural and legal persons applying for registration and operating as undertakings providing temporary work. Upon completion of the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote with results was held: 17 votes for the draft, no votes against the draft and abstention. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act, No 702-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Is there any desire from the importers? I don't see one. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Yankov, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The submitted bill is to amend and supplement the Employment Promotion Act. The proposed changes facilitate the procedure for natural and legal persons applying for registration as an undertaking providing temporary work. The employment agency will examine, in an official order, the necessary circumstances under such an application. You've heard the effects that are expected to be achieved by this change. It is normal for all Members of Parliament, since it is a matter of easing the administrative burden, to support such proposals. My fellow Members, I take note of the government programme, as when signing and announcing this amendment to the Law, you did not foresee it. It is after an analysis that is done, but it concerns only 150 companies and is unclear how many individuals. The administrative burden of bureaucracy can only be reduced when this applies to a larger number of legal entities. Only in the Construction Chamber they are over 5000 and this can happen as you have written it in the election program of the government of Borisov 3.................................................................................... I would like to draw your attention, Members of the majority: a State Report and an Annual Plan for the Development and Upgrading of Information Resources in the Administration and Resources of the Single Electronic Communications Network and of the State Administration were reviewed at the beginning of September, and for the needs of national security. It became clear from the statement of both the Council of Ministers and the Chairman of the State Agency that the e-government started over. All the governments of Borisov declared priority and after 8 years the e-government will start from the beginning. The systems developed so far and their functionalities cannot be used as a common platform for electronic control. With this change in the Law, which applies, I repeat, for about 150 companies, do you think you are fulfilling your priority of the government of Borisov 3 Is this the result of the deep analysis? Is this the result of 8 years, which the administration, mostly led by the executive authority in the face of GERB, will relieve this administrative burden? Is that what you're reading as a result? Colleagues, as a parliamentary group, we will support it, but it is not enough! We expect from the executive authority there are the experts, there is the capacity, there is the commitment to have specific proposals in the other laws, as you have written: Administrative Procedure Code, Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business and other laws, to submit them to the National Assembly, and if they are effective and reflect on the better environment of the Bulgarian companies, the legal entities, we will support them. It's not enough and we expect more! I personally doubt the capacity of this government and announce: six months after it is structured that it will not fulfil this commitment! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u94	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines to his statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Are there any other statements on the bill? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. We are voting at first reading on a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Employment Promotion Act, importer of the Council of Ministers, submitted on 19 October 2017. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We move to the next item on the agenda: The Council of Ministers adopted a first vote on 19 October 2017 pursuant to Article 3 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 12.1.2001, p. 1). Who's gonna read the report? I don't see Mrs. Stoyanova. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u95	Thank you, Madam President. The Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 702-01-23, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 2 October 2017, adopted at the first vote on 19 October 2017. Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u96	We vote on the name of the Law. Vote 95 MPs: 92, none, abstention 3. The name of the bill is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u97	Madam President, I ask for a procedure for admission: from the Ministry of Finance, the Directorate of Tax Policy....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u98	Please vote on the procedure so made for admission. They voted 99 MPs: 92 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u99	On a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova § 1 to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 1 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u100	Please vote on § 1, which the Commission does not support. They voted 99 MPs: 91, against 3, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Proceed, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u101	Proposal of the National Representative Dora Hristova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u102	Statements? Read the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Dora Hristova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u103	"1." In § 2, t. 3 the following additions shall be made to the proposed text by the importer: The text of art. 19th para. 5 is amended as follows: In the cases referred to in para. 3 Majority owners of capital, including majority shareholders or shareholders having that quality on the day of the occurrence of the liabilities which are indecently transferring shares or shares owned by them so as to cease to be majority partners or shareholders, shall be responsible for outstanding tax obligations and compulsory social security contributions. The liability shall be proportionate to their participation in the alienated part of the capital. There is a bad faith where the partner knew that the company was bankrupt or over-debted and the transfer took place after the date of the start of insolvency and/or over-debted, established by an effective judicial decision initiating insolvency proceedings with regard to the company and before the earlier of the two dates: 1. a declaration in the Commercial Register of the application of the company for the opening of insolvency proceedings; 2. entry in the Commercial Register of the insolvency court's decision to open insolvency proceedings with regard to the company. 2. In § 2 to create a new t. 5: The previous para. 10 becomes para. 11. At the end of the first sentence, the following words shall be added after the word "supplier': it is a case that public obligations of the company have been established as a result of the control proceedings carried out. 3. In § 2, the proposed by the importer t. 5 is going to be t. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u104	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Christova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u105	Madam President, honourable Members! In the latest amendments to the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code in art. 19th para. 5 unprecise texts were included which led to the absurdity of former partners and shareholders to be jointly responsible for outstanding public tax and social security obligations. What's ridiculous about the whole situation? All shareholders and associates have limited liability throughout the civilized world to the extent of their participation in the capillary company. This limited liability stimulates the free business initiative of citizens and thus the partners and shareholders are insured in taking an economic risk if the business turns out to be unsuccessful and the company faces insolvency, their personal property to be protected. It is absurd because, in practice, the text of this paragraph gives the following: if a capital company, whether a limited liability company or a limited liability company, has outstanding public tax and social security obligations, the current partners are limited to the amount of their participation in the capital of the company, and they bear such solidarity responsibility for actions referred to in art. 19th para. 2, that is to say, for all their unlawful acts relating to the reduction of the company's assets. Thus, the fisk cannot collect its public obligations. And thirdly, they have such a responsibility only because of this, according to para. 3 that have voted for............................................................................................... If they voted against or abstained, they shall not be held responsible. It's what Al says. Five for ex-partners? If the former partners sold their capital contribution after knowing that the company was about to go bankrupt, then they are therefore and are solely responsible for all their actions, not for the actions under para. 2 and for all their actions, regardless of how they voted. If they voted against, they still have such a responsibility. It therefore comes to such a paradox that the former owners of capital companies bear greater responsibility than the current ones. In view of the above in this idea, we of the Parliamentary Group of. Volja..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These cases are referred to in art. 19th para. 3. Only in these cases is it fair and justified to introduce an exception to the general legal principle that the partners and shareholders of the capital company are not personally liable for the company's obligations. Unfortunately, this proposal of ours was not accepted by the Budget Committee with the reasons that it would hinder the collection of public liabilities, but most likely the reason is that it was proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Volja. With the proposed editing of para. Art. 5 of art. 19 The APC provides that if the respective partner or shareholder has participated in the draining of the company, that is to say, he contributed to reducing the company's property and gave his consent to those actions, that is to say, he voted for the company, only then and only then to be able to bear personal responsibility. Thus, a fair balance would be achieved between the fiscal interest of the state, the principle of the free movement of capital and the interests of citizens. My fellow Members, I invite you to vote on this proposal because if we do not vote on it today, what are the risks hidden if the texts remain this way? [[The President gives a sound signal that time has run out.]] This is a threat to civil turnover and investment in Bulgaria. It is a fact, according to the latest data of BNB, that investments decreased by 54%. The other thing is that this will create an arbitrariness by the authorities of the Return Agency because the correct wording of the texts has not been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Christova. Are there any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u107	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I turn to my colleague because with this change that she and her group want to make, in fact, this serious change that we are making in the D.C.K.C., is meaningless. The idea of these changes was to limit the sale of companies, and this is how this restriction can happen, i.e. the previous owners are responsible. With your proposal you want this responsibility to be so small that they continue in the same order and continue to sell companies. There is an idea here that it is about companies that are created and sold with an idea because there is a violation inside, tax crimes have been committed. We want to reduce or end this by changing the Law. This is not the ideal case of companies that transfer property in which there is a recovery in which there are shareholders. This is about the so-called fraudsters, and you, with this change, will make them continue to sell in the same order with ease the companies, and these very old owners are very responsible for the debts that have accumulated such companies. So far, the tax administration has been seeking responsibility from the new owners, you know who they are, these are citizens who do not have any ownership, some of them own 30 of these companies, and with this article I think we will make it so as to limit and look for the real cause of budget burdens, and this is the old owner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you are, Mrs. Christova, for your coat, you have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Nikolov! Perhaps you do not distinguish between selling an enterprise and selling a participation. All this time you're talking about selling an enterprise, not selling a participation. That's the first one. Secondly, the Fisk collects its public claims on the property of the company. We're not talking about selling an enterprise here. We're talking about selling a participation. The other change that we are making is that we want there to be a level playing field between the current and former owners, as the current owners are responsible for their actions under para. 2, that is, everything related to the property of the company, and they only answer if they have voted for the company. The former partners shall be responsible for all their actions, all those not related. We are talking that partners and shareholders who have had unlawful actions, such as hidden profit distribution, distribution of dividend in form of nature, if they have set up a special bet in favour of third parties, all that they are responsible for, are jointly responsible for, and also if they have voted for, for these actions. If they voted against, what responsibility can you bear from this former associate? Only then, if this text is adopted can the principle of unlimited liability be violated, which will now be applied, unfortunately, only in Bulgaria. Excuse me, but what foreign investor will come to invest his capital, knowing that at some point he will sell his participation and then in these unexplained texts he can bear such a solidarity responsibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u110	Thank you, dear Mrs. Christova. Are there any other statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dora Hristova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 20, against 48, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 supported by the Commission and becoming § 1 in its report. We are voting § 1 on the Commission report. 100 MPs voted: 88, against 5, abstention 7. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u111	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 2. According to § 4 "A proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 4, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 87 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The 11th sentence first after the words "the authorities of the Member States of the European Union" shall be added and after the word "the incomes" shall be added "the Customs Agency" and "the municipalities" and the second sentence shall be deleted. 2. The creation of para. 12: The order for requiring and providing the information under para. 11 shall be determined by: 1. the mayor of the municipality.. about the information exchanged by the municipalities; 2. the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency for the information exchanged by the Agency; 3. The Director of the Customs Agency for the information exchanged by the Agency. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 9. According to § 11 the proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 11 and proposes to reject it. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u112	That's it. Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 2 to 9 including on the Commission's report, the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 11 by importer, as well as § 10 by Commission report. Please vote. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 2 to 10 of the Commission report have been adopted as adopted the Commission's proposal to reject § 11 by importer. Please proceed with the transitional and final provisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u113	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 13. According to § 16 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 16, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In the Law on Value Added Tax (promise, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2 t. 3 is repealed; (b) in para. 3 t. Six is canceled. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The right to deduct tax credit under para. 1 shall be exercised during the tax period during which it occurred or in one of the next 12 tax periods, such as the relevant documents under art. 71 shall be reflected in the purchase log with the corresponding assets or services received tax base and tax. (b) paragraph 3 is repealed. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76, para. 2 t. Four is canceled. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The right to deduct tax credit under para. 1 shall be exercised during the tax period during which it occurred, or in one of the next twelve tax periods, with the document by which a tax has been charged in the order of the registration shall be reflected in the register of purchases with the corresponding assets tax base and tax. (b) paragraph 3 is repealed. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100 is created. 5. The Law of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 and 2 may be stated by persons to the Registry Agency upon application for entry of an initial registration under Chapter 2 of the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 shall be added at the end, either on the basis of art. 100, para. 5 declares registration by choice to the Agency; (b) in para. 2 is created t. 6: It's six. by a lawyer expressly authorised to do so by the persons referred to in paragraph 1. 1 with written power of attorney drawn up in accordance with the requirements of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of (c) in para. 4 is created sentence three: "In the cases of art. 100, para. 5 when applying for entry of initial registration to the Registry Agency, the person shall not apply a chargeable turnover reference. (d) paragraph 6 is amended as follows: The revenue body shall carry out a check on the basis of registration within 7 days of the submission of the application or from receipt of the information on the entry and exercise of the right under art. 100, para. 5 in the responsible territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency of the Institute. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 103. Two 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 132 para. Four is 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 132a para. Four is
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u114	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the division of the "Transitional and final provisions', as well as paragraphs 11 to 14, including the Commission report. They voted 99 MPs: 91, none, abstention 8. The term "Transitional and Final Provisions" and paragraphs 11 to 14 including the Commission's report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u115	According to § 17 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 17, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the Act on Accounting (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38 para. 9 is amended as follows: sevents of one or more of the following species: 1. budgetary undertakings and sole traders which are not subject to compulsory independent financial audit; and 2. undertakings which did not operate during the reporting period; this circumstance shall be declared by a declaration published in the Commercial Register by 31 March of the following year; fees under art. 12, para. 1, t. 1 of the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities for the publication of the declaration are not due. 2. In § 1, t. 30 of the additional provisions, the words 17, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 37, para. 2 is replaced by the following: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20 which shall become § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 which shall become § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 29. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 30. 30. Under-laws containing an obligation to present a certificate of existence or absence of obligations by persons shall be brought into conformity with that law by 31 March 2018 and shall be implemented by 31 March 2018. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 32, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... (1) The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2018 with the exception of: 1. paragraphs 1, § 4 "9, § 10, p. 2 and 3, § 26 and § 29, which enter into force three days after the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal. 2 paragraph 14, t. 5 and 6, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 15 to 29 on the Commission report, the Commission's proposal to create a new § 30 with its corresponding content on the report, as well as § 31 on the Committee on Budget and Finance Report. Vote 101 MPs: 97, no abstention 4. Paragraphs 15 to 31, including the Commission's report, have been adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. Moving on to: A SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR INTERGRESSION OF PEOPLE WITH CONVERSIONS, No 702-01-19. Importer: Council of Ministers on 28 September 2017, adopted at first reading on 12 October 2017. In the report of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, the President of the Commission will introduce you to the people's representative Hassan Ademov. You have the floor, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u118	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the text of the importer for the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The name of the Law is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u119	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In In order to perform the functions of social integration, the directors of the Boards of Directors shall be entitled to, or to, free access to the National Database of the Board of Directors of the Boards of Directors of the Boards of Directors of the Boards of Directors of the Boards of Directors of the Municipal Administration, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the territorial structures of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Employment Agency, the National Insurance Institute and other state bodies and bodies of the local self-government, and shall be obliged to provide it free of charge within 14 days from the date of the request.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u120	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 1 by importer, on its report. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u121	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u122	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? No. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 2 to 8 including the Commission's report. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 2 to 8 including the Commission report have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u123	'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. ..................................................... The Law shall enter into force from 1 January 2018 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-02.u124	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the section of the final provision, as well as § 9 of the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The term "Concluding provision" and § 9 of the Commission's report are unanimously adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. Communications on Parliamentary Control on 3 November 2017 Friday: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer two questions and one question from the MP Ivo Hristov. 2. Interior Minister Valentin Radev will answer a question from the MPs Ivan Valentinov and Dora Yankova. 3. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer two questions from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Vasil Antonov. 4. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will answer a question from the MP Hristo Prodanov. 5. The Minister of Culture Boel Banov will answer a question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov. 6. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer two questions from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov. 7. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer three questions from the MPs Stefan Burgev; Daniel Yordanov and Krasimir Yankov; and Plamen Manushev, Yordan Yordanov and Daniela Dimitrova. 8. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer four questions from the MPs Nikolay Tishev; Todor Bajchev; Nikolay Alexandrov; Manol Genov, Georgi Turnovalyski and Veska Nencheva. 9. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev. 10. The Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will answer a question from the MP Polina Hristova. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov "to a question from the MPs Teodora Halacheva and Petar Vitanov; and to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to 3 questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova, Donka Simeonova and Violeta Zheleva; Anelia Klisarova and Irena Anastasova; and Bogdan Botsev and Nikolay Boshkov; and to three questions written by the MPs Vesela Lecheva; and Nikolay Alexandrov, who has two questions; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to three questions written by the MPs Vesela Lecheva; and Nikolay Alexandrov with two questions; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to two questions with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to three questions with written answer from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova; Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev; and Slavcho Velkov. Due to a planned international visit to the Ministry of Defence by representatives of the Czech Republic, as well as planned at the request of the Minister of Defence of the Republic of France, a conference which cannot be postponed at another time, the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Health will not participate in the resignation of Nikolay Petrov. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda scheduled for today, I am adjourned. Tomorrow at 9:00. Next sitting. [[PHONE RINGING]]
