ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, in connection with the submitted yesterday, 31 May 2017, Draft decision on request for early release of Dimitar Borisov Glachev from the position of President of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 5, para. 4 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and the adopted Programme for Work this week I propose changes to the Programme, namely: The draft decision on request for early release of Dimitar Borisov from the position of President of the National Assembly to become item 3 for Thursday, 1 June 2017. Is there any other opinion on this? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u2	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose that the item you have just read, namely the decision to release the President of the National Assembly, be the first item of today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u3	This is slightly out of line with your motives in the request for resignation, that Parliament must work on another agenda, but it does not matter. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Philip Popov. Vote 221 MPs: 217 against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Popov. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u4	Thank you. I propose that the debates on today's point and the vote be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio. Mr. Glauchev has already overtaken me, my second suggestion would be that he should not lead the meeting on item one of today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Voting mode. Vote 217 MPs: 101 against 112 abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. I'm moving on to the first point of today, as we agreed: PROJECT FOR THE REQUEST DECISION FOR THE PRESENT EXAMINATION OF THE BORISOV BORIS BENEFICIARY OF THE VAST PRESENT OBSERVER OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. I give the floor to the importer to motivate his request. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The reasons for requesting the resignation of the President of the National Assembly are two. The first National Assembly has not been fully operational for six weeks. The government and the majority do not have a management and legislative programme to carry out the work of the National Assembly with meaning. Worse is likely by the end of this session in July there will be none. We say that because we have a letter from Mrs. Bachvarova, Head of the Prime Minister's Office, to all ministers and to the administration, in which she asks them to present legislative initiatives to help draw up a management and legislative programme. The deadline is June. Until these initiatives are collected, processed and presented as a legislative programme, this session shall expire. Of course, during that time, when we didn't make any substantial decisions about those who voted for us and sent us here with some expectations, you were dealing with other topics. You tried to solve certain people's problems with the law on land ownership. Thank God we stopped you. [[Radio.]] Since yesterday you have been dealing with the Law on concessions and lobbying, also Law, which destroys the remaining small state property. You are acquitted by a European directive. We will support you for these texts, which are European, but do not hide behind this your desire to distribute on eternal concessions to close state and municipal property. We from BSP for Bulgaria submitted a Draft Law amending the Penal Code in order to drop the minor case of domestic crime; Draft Law amending the Law on Food to help Bulgarian producers and farmers; Bill amending the Code to end the abuse of private judicial contractors; Code on Social Security to recalculate all pensions; Law on Bulgarian Sign Language to help people with disabilities; and a number of other legislative initiatives. However, these bills are not dealt with either in committees or in the Chamber. We work 20 minutes a day. [[GERB lines.]] You don't have a program. We offer our.. it is not watched to cover up the fact that you have an alternative and that there is a party that is here to fulfill its election commitments, not to give up on them, as the ruling majority has done. The state in which the parliament is located is disrupting the authority of the institution. Let each of us think: what he promised in the campaign, and what he has been doing for six weeks here, are they responding to each other? We do not wish the institution to be seen as a place where no work is done. We do not want to give an occasion for the definition that Prime Minister Borisov gave years ago to be filled with content, and it was that the MPs are idlers. Or perhaps that is the purpose of your today's behaviour on Parliament in a parliamentary republic to put the stain on bums and on an unnecessary institute in constitutional Bulgaria, the executive power to be favored and to convince the public that there is the centre in which the decisions are made. No, it's not there. He should be here. [[Reply from the National Representative Plamen Manushev.]] And the first concern, except that it is for each of us to raise the authority of this institution and to do the work for which we are here, is for the President of the National Assembly. The second reason is that this management infirmity is disguised by acts of aggression, hatred, condemning nearly one million Bulgarians. With four declarations they were defined as non-Bulgarians, murderers, were sent to Siberia, to North Korea yesterday. The lack of policies and programs was replaced by a return to the past, a division between Bulgarians, insults to people with different understandings, beliefs and ideas. The President of the National Assembly rudely violates the Rules of Procedure, which, by virtue of a decision of the Constitutional Court, honourable Members, is a law. And in this law, in art. 155, para. 2 writes: "The People's Representatives are not entitled to make personal attacks, insulting words, gestures or threats against anyone, to disclose data that harms the good name of the citizens. " A law that provides, if this happens, for the President to react this way:.. makes a remark to a Member of the National Assembly who has addressed a colleague or colleagues with abusive words, gestures or threats. Yesterday, the President of the National Assembly gave another reason for the request for resignation after its submission by defining the implementation of this law, which is his duty, as the.......................................................................................... Punishment for spreading hatred, aggression, and violence in his opinion is darkness! Punishing such a thing was an invasion of freedom of speech! This is absurd: to execute a law you define as darkness!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u7	Do you believe this woman?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u8	We expect from the President of the National Assembly not such behavior, but the imposition of morals and values that are needed for society and which, colleagues from GERB, are values of the European policy which you raise as your creed and carry in the name of your party... Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria. In words you are against the aggression on the roads, aggression in schools, domestic violence, practically here, from this place, stimulate it, show and impose. [[GERB lines.]] Speaking of Europe, today she and the entire civilized world are fighting hatred, aggression, division and extremes. You are doing the opposite, and that is precisely in the year of the Presidency of the European Union. [[Reply from the National Representative Plamen Manushev.]] Not a word about priorities for six weeks! The Bulgarian Parliament has not discussed a single sentence. What will Bulgaria propose in this Presidency? What are the important issues for Europe and for us Bulgarians, which must be solved? Instead, the invocation, Nazi symbols, hatred, stigmatization of different and anticommunism. When Europe discusses its future, which you have no idea where Bulgaria will be in this future [[GERB lines]] or at least you don't suggest that we discuss it here, you bring us back to the past. You brought Bulgaria back to the 1990s. We will not follow this loss of political and value orientation of Bulgaria! That's your statement right there. [[shows them]] Words translated! This here is the initiative of the European Council [[shows it]] Not in hate language! If you do not know, your EPP leaders are one of the leaders of this campaign in Europe. Moreover, last month, Germany passed a law that fined up to $50 million in Facebook, Twitter, Google, Microsoft if within 24 hours they did not eliminate messages on social networks that broadcast hatred. What are you doing right now? With these letters, we turn around...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u9	"We" and "You" are personal pronouns!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u10	That's right, we and you are different, and we are an alternative. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u11	Thank God!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u12	These are our addresses to the leaders of the European People's Party [[shows them]] Your political family, Joseph Dol, Antonio Lopez, Mr Tajani, Mr Juncker, with whom we ask: do they support a party that instills hatred, denial and division? [[GERB lines.]] We ask them: on which principles are they betting on those who define you as leading in Europe and in the world: Unified in their differences....or on the principle on which they bet Boyko Borisov and party GERB: Divide and conquer?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u13	Mrs. Ninova, you've got to get to the finish line. The ten minutes are running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u14	Please from the time of the group. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u15	What time of the band?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u16	Please from the time of the group. We've done it many times. There is a meeting of Mrs Merkel with Mr. Borisov, from which we expect...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u17	You will be able to speak in the time of the group, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u18	Okay, I'm interrupting and please give me the floor of speech on behalf of the group. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u19	You have the floor, Mrs. Ninova, for speaking on behalf of the group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u21	Excuse me to announce the time available to the individual parliamentary groups: GERB Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u22	And if I may, just on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u23	Thank you. We expect at the June meeting between Mr. Borisov and Mrs. Merkel to discuss this issue and she to express her opinion: does she support the government of the political party GERB, which brought Nazi symbols back on the agenda? Does the Communist State support the following opinion expressed by the National Assembly: After the occupation in 1944, the communist state built multiple more concentration camps for torture and murder of worthy Bulgarians by the Nazi Germany itself and its ally at the beginning of World War II, the Bolshevik Soviet Union put together? Does he approve of a member of the Bulgarian government and Deputy Prime Minister to return the theme of Hitlerism?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u24	Mrs. Nino, you're not on the subject of Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u25	Who allowed all this to happen from the platform of parliament, as President of the National Assembly? [[Laughter at GERB.]] Does he support Hitlerian symbols and behavior? We hope that this will be discussed during her meeting with Mr. Borisov. Because in front of us and Europe there are two paths, ladies and gentlemen, or we sit down and discuss the future of Europe and of Bulgaria, as we see it, or we return the conversation to the past and analyze it. We choose the path of the future! That is why we are against the style in which you impose the return to the past and the conversation there, because it is unproductive! We want a discussion about the future of Europe, about the future of the Bulgarian people and since you do not offer it, we do it with our positions, bills and consistent behavior in the Bulgarian Parliament! We have two tasks ahead of us to work for what we are here to do and impose morality in society! This is the responsibility of each of us, but the highest responsibility of the President of the National Assembly. He can't handle both of them. In the name of the authority of the institution National Assembly, in the name of doing work for the people and giving way to Bulgaria in its European future we want the resignation of Mr. Glauchev and the election of a person who can point this path and cope with these tasks! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u26	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Since the debates have already been opened, I give the floor for speeches. Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, since it was a statement, my colleagues suggested that there might be lines. Here's a line for you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u27	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I can't help but replicate every attempt to derogate trust in this institution and change the burden of proving it. All attempts at this derogation and deterioration have started from you. What is insane about a minister of the Council of Ministers fulfilling the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers? You have reached the maximum in the hierarchy to the Deputy Minister, but you know that twice a year the Council of Ministers prepares its legislative programme. This is a requirement of the Council of Ministers under its Rules of Procedure. There is nothing to wave an organizational letter, which is the natural move of the government's work. There is also no way to interpolate and design from this conclusion that the government did not have a management program. The government has been running a management program since before it was set up by the elections. Our management program was presented to the voter and was supported by him. [[Applause from GERB.]] Later, I will specifically request the floor to reveal all the manipulations you make with interpretations of the legislative activity of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. And there is no guilt in the President of the National Assembly, so you are using the moment to undermine trust in the institution again. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u28	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line to Mrs. Ninova? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u29	Mr. Kirilov, I'm just wondering how you're raising such a ball and giving me two minutes out of time. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u30	Three!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u31	So we can talk about this program thing. You're saying the government had an election program! No, the political party GERB had an election and the United patriots had an election program. After you gathered, you announced management priorities based on which you said here that you would present a Programme. You don't! [[Heckling]] When are you going to introduce her? She's gone! This is not an administrative attitude to the administration, this is something essentially here writes. Colleagues, I quote:! [[Lowered applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Then, by giving me this opportunity and this ball, let's talk about the programs. Where's your 300 leva? pensions? Where are your 1,000 people in the Ministry of Interior new employees? [[GERB lines.]] It's in your program. Where are the six thousand in the Ministry of Defence, as there was recently a National Security Advisory Council? Where is your promised administrative reform, in which the administration will collect all the documents on its own and of its own obligation to ease business? [[Noise and lines.]] Where's everything you promised before the election? The retreat from both the patriots and your program is clear. It was expressed in these management priorities, on the basis of which we are still waiting for a management programme two months later. And apparently she won't be ready until the end of this session. Here's a signature to Mrs. Bachvarova. So all the arguments that you put out here just now are absolutely untenable.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u32	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u33	Thank you, Madam President. I very much hope your patience and your personal charm do not take away my word. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u34	If you break the rules, I'll take it from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u35	And let's not violate the right to free speech. Ladies and gentlemen! Notice, I always turn with this address: Dear Ones!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, not ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u37	Although today I cannot use this address to the President Mr. Glauchev, because the address became quite different. Please, all those you are calling, let's be civilized. I listen to you very carefully. If you noticed yesterday you were all here, I stayed, listened to the report and took an attitude. Obviously, those who call have a rich peace of mind that determines their emotional nature. [[Relations from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] Mrs. Dukova, thank you for listening. [[Laughter, noise and lines.]] I'm serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u38	Mr. Velkov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u39	On the subject, right on the subject. What would I like to say about the resignation request? That thanks to the silent approval of the President of the National Assembly, Mr. Glauchev, imperceptibly and very quickly in the parliamentary group of GERB is formed a radical wing, and this was stated on national television several times by our present colleague Anton Todorov. He said: "I belong to the radical wing of GERB, which will hardly please our European friends, allies and fellow parties. Let me tell you, Mr. Glauchev, from radicalism and extremism to terrorism is one step! [[Noise and lines.]] And let me ask you, can we feel safe here? [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] , in the Chamber of the National Assembly of Violations, because Mr. Todorov again on TV said he had promised his voters to eliminate Mr. Zarkov. How is it physically or spiritually?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u40	What is the connection between Mr. Todorov's speeches on television with Mr. Glauchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u41	I am talking to Mr. Glauchev about the request for his resignation. If you here tolerate the language of hatred, the pronouncing of epithets of words such as................................... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] When you talk about the relatives and fathers of others, look around and see your relatives and fathers! Mr. Todorov, your father has been proposed by the Regional Committee of the BCP, Stara Zagora, for a hero of socialist work, established by the Central Committee of the BCP. [[Voices "Bravo!" and loud applauses from "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] Your father, Mr. Todorov, was sentenced to nine years in prison for assault. Attempted murder with a pick. [[crowd cheering, noise and speech]] And he was in prison, where you then requested to be a warden. [[Laughter, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u42	What does that have to do with anything, Mr. Velkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u43	You wanted to be an officer of the RDVR, Stara Zagora.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u44	Mr. Velkov, please listen to me for a minute. Stop time!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u45	Yes, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u46	I ask you to make your lines to Mr. Glauchev. We're not discussing Mr. Todorov right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u47	Yes, I am discussing the behaviour of the President of the National Assembly, who is silent in front of one thing I would say outrageous behavior of people in his group. Okay, Mr. Glauchev, let me ask you something else. Let's leave aside that Mr. Todorov has applied for both a supervisor and an employee of the National Intelligence Service and that he is the founder of the "Allians for Radical Capitalism" company and that he has close contacts with one of the three at the TSUM-gate, which is not the Attorney General, is not from Plovdiv and is not from BSP. [[Laughter and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let's leave aside that he, Mr. Glauchev, who is constantly talking about Russian agents and intelligence, is in active relations with Russian citizens as he is the founder of the Bulgarian Astrology Association. Who did you contact there? And to ask Mr. Glauchev...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u48	What's the connection I don't understand, Mr. Velkov, with Mr. Glauchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u49	Yes, here, I'm talking about Mr. Glauchev. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov, for the good gestures. You should know who you've accepted in the group and that since he was a chef, he'll cook for you sooner or later. [[Laughter and applause from GERB.]] Let me tell you, Mr. Glauchev, that you, on Friday, in gross violation of the Rules of the National Assembly and the image, were called to the Council of Ministers to meet a foreign head of state at a secret meeting, for which you then said you did not know him and to maintain a policy that Turkey would look at with a very special view.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u50	Mr. Glauchev, you may want a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u51	It's about Massoud Barzani. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u52	Mr. Velkov, what is there to do with this right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u53	The President of the National Assembly, Ms. Karayancheva, cannot accept a foreign head of state in the Council of Ministers. There's a National Assembly. If there's anything secret, tell him what it's about.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u54	In relation to the reasons you have set out, there is no indication of such reasons.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u55	Here, I give you an additional motive: the inaction, the tolerance of Mr. Glauchev in hate speech. Tomorrow is Botev Day, Mr. Glauchev. You guys are going to the Corner today. Even if you go to Vola, you can't rise any higher in my eyes. And to those in the radical wing, I will say in Botev's style: "Why am I not also a writer, a writer like Anton, a second one I would write in the parliamentary salon. [[Laughter and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] And to you, Comrade Gurnevsky, because you approached me yesterday with comrades and comrades, I don't consider you a comrade. My ancestors, fathers and kinsmen left their bones on the battlefields. They lie on the turn of Black and the cemetery in Marseilles. Mr. Dukov will tell you who this is about. To you, to you, who wrote that you graduated from the UNWE and that you were the Director of the Plovdiv Printing House...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u56	Mr. Velkov, please, you've been through all the MPs. Please, on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u57	...I'll say simply and comradely: Thank you! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u58	Any lines to Mr. Velkov's statement? Personal explanation please, Mr. Todorov. Two minutes for a personal explanation. I'm only going to ask you without insulting qualifications from all parliamentary groups. That's my call. [[Voices: "Bravo!" by DPS, applause by DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u59	Madam President, gentlemen and Madam Vice-Presidents, fellow Members, Mrs. Nino, the expert treasurer host Slavcho Velkov! [[Applause from GERB.]] I'm not gonna repeat the crap you said. They talk about you well enough. Perhaps you need specialized help as you often recommend to others. I can provide it for you if you don't find the right healer. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] About what you said. Where I applied, it's only my job, it's none of your business. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What was my father like? That's not new. I wrote it myself two years ago: he has sinned, he has suffered his punishment, and like each of you with the same rights is. Let me tell you something that your non-Bulgarian party, with the wrong name, should know. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Line: "Make a comment to him! ")]] You should know that everyone, everyone...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u60	Please be quiet in the hall. [[Reply from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u61	You should know that every saint has a past, and every sinner has a future. We are not criminals, like that party whose successor you are. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We, unlike you, get the trust of 1 million and 140,000 Bulgarians. [[Noise by BSP for Bulgaria.]] Where is the respect for these voters on your part? Is there such respect? I won't. [[(The President signals that time has expired. The line from BSP for Bulgaria........................................................................................]] I'm gonna end up with something that seems important.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u62	The weather, Mr. Todorov. You will be able to make a speech about this completion. [[Strong noise and lines, banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Quiet, please! You see, I'm as correct as I can be. I'm gonna stop the time when I'm over two minutes. Here you are, Mr. Gurnevsky, for a personal explanation of two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Comrade Velkov! I will not discuss the work of the President because he is doing it perfectly and there is no need for such discussion in this Chamber. [[Applause from GERB.]] As far as I'm concerned, my affidavit yesterday. If you had read it in peace and followed the philosophy of this declaration, you would see that it has two aspects. The first aspect of Mr. Kutev's decision to stop demagogy and the division in this Parliament. This was caused by the declaration last Friday, in which there was the harshest political intrigue to look into the relations between the members of a party. Where's your grip, Mr. Kutev, your cock, why is Mr. Todorov in this party, besides making a rude political intrigue?! And when I heard Mr. Velkov, once again I am convinced that after 10 November your party had to fall to its knees and apologize for the crimes committed to the Bulgarian people. Today, Mr. Velkov, you proved it. I will never continue this topic again from this tribune, but I wanted to tell you. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, in the declaration there was, if you read it carefully and heard it carefully, a continuation of the call of the Prime Minister of Bulgaria in these complex times, in these domestic and external trials, hanging over the country, to unite not in coalition, but around national priorities for the revival of the country. You definitely refused to work for the Bulgarian people to continue to sow intrigues, divisions, to adjust society. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Now in Bulgaria, the people downstairs are waiting for all of us to sit down, write these priorities, unite and implement them. [[Strong noise and banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And you were invited to participate, and you refused them, and now you're asking where the priorities are.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u64	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u65	When they are fulfilled, you will see them. [[BSP banks for Bulgaria]] And...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u66	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. You'll be able to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u67	I'm asking the group to return the answer, Mr. Velkov's literary gesture. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The Party...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u68	You will have the opportunity, Mr. Gurnevsky, to make a statement at a later stage. The two minutes for a personal explanation are over.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u69	I'll take this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u70	Personal explanation Mr. Glauchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u71	Only in the name of the truth, which I am very fond of, and my colleagues from GERB. Mr. Velkov, until now I thought you were a good expert in your field, but after that statement you made, I just need to make a statement: I haven't set foot in the Council of Ministers for a year. I hope the other information you've provided as an expert isn't that reliable. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u72	It's a personal explanation. [[National Representative Anton Kutev wants the floor.]] I'll give you one personal explanation so we don't get into a spiral. [[Reply from GERB: There is no personal explanation.]] Here you go. [[(Comments from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u73	Madam President, honourable Members!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u74	I'm going to ask you without insulting qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u75	I do not think that I have used insulting qualifications at any time, but since the beginning of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u76	I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u77	Well, look at it, it's a fact. Mr. Gurnevsky, in each of my speeches, I was trying to turn things into politics. Yeah, maybe somewhere I've been talking off-limits, although if I've said anything ruder, it was a quote from your guy, it wasn't my words. It's not that I can't say any worse. I must be able to make up terrible things. If we're going to bid on this way of speaking, which you and Mr. Todorov are trying to bring in, believe me, dirty talkers here in this room, there's a lot. The purpose of this conversation is to escape this obscenity, and I therefore all that I have said more harshly was your quote. It wasn't my word. And my words were focused on policies and what we need to do. Once again, I'm saying 1.5 million. Bulgarians live below the poverty line. That's what we need to talk about. And this conversation you're trying to impose is not directed that way and is unworthy of you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u78	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Do we have any lines for Mr. Velkov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. My fellow Members, it is obvious that we only gather together when we have to do PR shares. As a matter of fact, I only want to give two numbers. Yes, it is true that for the political party GERB voted 1 million. $150,000. ............................................... One million. 200,000. Bulgarian voters, which are about 17-18% of Bulgarian voters. So let us not get excited, because we can look back at it and say that over 80% of Bulgarian voters have not supported either the political party GERB or their management program. But here's my line. On the occasion of:..Save, get!... and so on, I want to tell you that you are practically all pouring out. We from the political party will leave this circus and come back here when the National Assembly stops with PR shares and starts making laws in the interests of the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian state.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u80	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. A hole, Mr. Velkov, I hope you will be. a more moderate one. The good tone in the hall is back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u81	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Chairman, of course I will be more moderate, as it is about the duplicate. By the way, Mr. Glauchev just confirmed to me that he was in such a meeting. [[Reply from GERB: Didn't you say it wasn't?.]] If you want, I'll show you the pictures of the whole room. If you'd like. If you want, we'll call here, we'll invite the journalist to tell you. But it doesn't matter. I would like, honourable Members, to call for something else. Also, Mr. Velchev, with all due respect, we are aviation people, I told you you might be stalking me. You can stalk me if you want, from a plane, from a drone, on TV and telepathy if you want! It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u82	Get to the point, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u83	In essence, my dodger consists of the following. I share what Mr. Mareshki has said, and I call on all of you to let this day, the day preceding the Botev celebrations, be the last one to speak the language of hatred here. And especially to Mr. Todorov, I'm not going to tell him anything. Don't worry, Mrs. Karayancheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u84	I'm calm, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u85	In connection with his toss next time, I'll bring him two of the four diplomatic passports I've used during my work to see my position. If you've heard, Mr. Todorov, in French, what is the meaning of a chargé d'affaires, you should know that this is not a treasurer host. Yes, I had such a position. I had a position. This is for your own comfort. But I've never had a job as a plumber. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. We continue with the speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u87	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u88	Come in for a procedure, I suppose, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u89	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Despite your efforts to make this debate relatively meaningful and meaningful, I appeal to you for the following. At the moment when for whatever reason you hear personal data about any MP, his relative, from the opposition, please take the floor and take the floor. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] Why? Because your supervisor Mrs. Ninova rightly said what the duties of the chairman are, including to protect the good name and reputation of the MPs, and I would say to everyone. [[(Reply from DPS:]] Clearly, you have files. It's clear you want to show them. Clearly, you want to talk about who was who in 1970. 1975, 1980, but the only person who has the right to speak in person in this debate is President Dimitar Glauchev. Everyone else has to talk in principle. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Hamid's manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u91	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, just as my colleagues and I have been thinking about praising you for giving signals to be a good President of the National Assembly, you have allowed this tribune President of the Legal Commission to call you to take the floor when there has been some violation by members of the opposition alone. Do not allow Mrs. Karayancheva to pass the double standards that Mr. Glauchev has established in this Parliament! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u92	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. I think that this Parliament has a chair, a worthy chair, and his name is Dimitar Glauchev. I give the floor for further speeches. Mrs. Dukova, come in. [[(Noise and lines and shouts:]] They're very happy to see you!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u93	Me too. Dear Madam President, as is the case in the House of President and not the Chairman! We'll follow the rules, won't we? Dear Members of Parliament, in order to shift the debate and go to the subject, I would like to make a detour. Today is a wonderful holiday for all Bulgarian children and I congratulate them. [[Applause.]] Let all be congratulated, including those in the hall, who have kept everything in themselves childish. And I know there are those between us. I didn't come up for a personal explanation, Mr. Velkov, for many reasons, one of which is your sentence. Why would I say that? Because today's debate relates to the request for a resignation for this reason that Parliament does not work, that six weeks we no longer have a legislative initiative and there is no material in these meetings. I thought at the end to say about what is proposed to be included on the agenda of the National Assembly: five drafts have been introduced by the parliamentary group of BSP and five more by the Political Party GERB. The organizational obstructions that are interpreted by this tribune are not pleasant because they are not true. And if you have a credo to not work, there's another reason why you're paying back the money you received this week because you didn't make it. I made them. The committees work extremely actively, but sabotaging the acceptance of these materials is yours, not ours. So be more patient and wait to see what we will do with the so-called Management Program and how we will implement it because it exists. [[BSP lines]] . Apostrophes here are unnecessary. I'm going to go back to the motives, because my experience told me, reading the transcripts in previous Parliament meetings, what was going on back then. And then you were very active in defense, and I do not personally quote so that there are no further speeches and personal explanations. I am very surprised at the motives, because below have signed people who, in the short period of time when we work, have created a very unpleasant attitude towards themselves as a way of communicating, expressing and dialogue in this House and in the media. Today, in an air media I watch, I will not say who she is, they said: "They want a vote of mistrust, but they have started work only a month ago. If this is a way to try to change the agenda of the National Assembly, to show that you are working, then it is not the best. On the grounds. Those are set out here, for example,.... violates procedural rules........................................................................................................................................................................... When and how, honourable Members, did the President break the rules? When you don't even know that in the course of the speech you should have then a declaration to extend you the time when you don't even know that the person behind me is the chairman and not the chairman. When you don't follow those rules yourself! What you call an asteric quote, which is at stake in the motives, and you want a union, but on what basis, colleagues? On what basis can we have a union? You say we're separated. We're never united! Our inherent ideology is different, our attitude towards our constituents is different. You're quoting this unification, but on what basis? Based on Scravena, based on Belene, based on a rebirth process?! These are your guys? Censor. Dear colleagues, there is no censorship. The MP must have self-censorship when he stands on this stand. I understand that this debate today is very important for the opposition and that it is an opposition instrument of parliamentaryism and pluralism in this House. Getting acquainted with the motives, I've read some shorthands from past mandates. They were asymmetrical, which is why I want to give an asymmetric answer. You plead he has brute force. To whom? To a gentle opposition? You're talking about honest lies and manipulations. To whom? Who made these lies and manipulations out of this tribune? I am not going to put history back on the way a parliament is being built when it was supposed to protect one of your vice-presidents, Mr Kurumbashev, Vice-President of the National Assembly, and said that it was built. Mr. Glauchev is a fourth term MP. I do not think that there are more politically, professionally, people with a face who can take this position and this position. It's called an objective inability. I quote again. One of your colleagues called this unwitting helplessness and put it in parentheses. He said shmendi were dripping. That's your expression and I hope your colleague remembers who he is and why he says it. I was wondering about that pasquil, fellows. Very simple conundrum. And it occurred to me that you want to work, but how? With an opposition ecstasy to replace these, to replace the speech, to make party propaganda built on supporting points. It's a political goal. The procedure is part of the parliamentary mind, not part of the abuse. We want to impose standards of political behavior. It's one thing to want, it's another to be able, the third is to do it, and the fourth is to show it from this tribune. [[(Noise in BSP for Bulgaria (BSP for Bulgaria))]] . Those are all qualities. There are both young and new colleagues who, today in the couloirs, said they were disgusted by this style of our work and political behavior. When there are no meaningful arguments and replaced political ones, it becomes an intrigue and a weapon, a bad weapon. I'd like you to step out of that room because you're quoting a lot. You know I'm a literary writer, and I can quote a lot: When thunder strikes, how the echo fades. You must know whose quote this is. The euphoria of the presidential elections has passed. Your thunder struck in the parliamentary elections. Don't let your echo fade so long. [[Applause from GERB]] . Let's work, guys! That's why we're here. [[Noise and lines in "BSP for Bulgaria"]] . Behind you and behind us are the voters. Do not allow yourself nomenclatural calls because time is running, but time is running faster for you, and we will rule for four years and prove that our Management Program can be implemented and that the people will choose us as long as we work for it. And today I wish you good luck. And end this intrigue. Of course we'll support Mr. Glauchev because I've known him for four years. Your position is a fictional... [[Reply of MP Dragomir Stoinev]] . Four terms, Mr. Stoinev. Sorry about the lapsus. You make them more often than I do, even very often, I'd say. We will support it because it makes sense to work and makes sense for the opposition to be what it should be. I hope you become her. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Dukova, that is exactly the point of this debate, perhaps you have not understood it, so now I will try to repeat it briefly and clearly. First, we want the resignation of Lord Glauchev because the parliament is not working. You are calling us to work, and that is exactly what we want. This is where we united. Secondly, hate language comes from you. We don't want that hate language. We want to do our job. It is no coincidence that the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Regional Policy have only met once. We want to work. That's it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u96	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Second line, Mr. Lazarov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u97	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Dukova, I listened carefully to the speech. However, you neglected to mention to the accusations that this Parliament is not working, because for two weeks there have been legal committees in which the bills are to be passed, that in the forty-second National Assembly, Mrs Dukova, a temporary legal committee has been made, which was supposedly made to adopt the Rules, but which the Temporary Legal Committee has examined today, and in the forty-second Parliament the Law amending the National Assembly to elect the President of the National Assembly, proposed and voted on by this part of the Chamber. [[shows left side of the hall]] The Ministry of the Interior Act has been amended. Amendments were made to the Criminal Procedure Code concerning the period of investigation, concerning certain people. These bills were tabled and examined without passing at all on the other committees, it did not have committees. Do you want this practice to be revived from this part of the room? [[Shows left side of the hall]] . But then, as a result of these votes, the SANS Act, the election of the President, who, we know who was elected, who had proposed it. [[pointing left-hand side of the hall]] People went out on the street. You missed that to say, Mrs. Dukova. No, we won't use these practices. We will work for Bulgaria and for the people. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Third line. I can't see. For the coat, Mrs. Dukova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u99	Madam President, honourable Members! You're right, Mr. Stoinev. We're here to work, but do you know how we want to work? - so there won't be these protests that you remember very well. No white buses to hide in and no retreats through the back entrances and shame in front of people. [[Applause from GERB.]] I'll say one more thing, fellow Members. Some of you have worked in the services, know a lot of information, press in them to share it in the room is not my topic. The children are not responsible for the sins of their fathers, Mr. Stoinev, because if they had to answer one of you would not be in this room because his father was killing in the concentration camps in Belene. I'm not gonna tell 'cause it's gonna work. You have so many cops with you, they'll tell you who you're talking about. And the most important thing is that he recognizes himself. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u100	Order, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u101	Mr. Lazarov, we remember a legislative programme that is not being implemented. We remember an agenda that put people on the street for almost a year. We don't want that agenda. Yes, we will work for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u102	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. [[Applause from GERB.]] We continue with the speeches. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u104	Mrs. Chairman! Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I agree with the finding that we are in an unusual situation to ask for the resignation of the President of the National Assembly six weeks after the parliament is constituted. And we need to understand clearly why we are in this situation, because the Bulgarian Socialist Party is not a destructive opposition, does not proceed to emotional actions and to actions that would in any way threaten parliamentaryism in the country and social peace. However, the Bulgarian Socialist Party cannot agree with the attempt to call out life in the Bulgarian public space of the heavy historical discussion of the 20th century, which, as everyone knows in this Chamber, will not be allowed because today in Bulgarian society and we believe there are two versions of Bulgarian history in the 20th century. I don't want to outline them, but national agreement, reconciliation, constructive work for the future, to work, as our colleague called for, this glorious word I would quote, since you started with quotations from literature, let's end this matter if we have powers. We raised the question of Mr. Glauchev's resignation, but I would like to make a statement here and agree with him when he said it was about declarations of parliamentary groups, not individual statements of MPs. But here the responsibility of the Political Party GERB becomes even greater if these findings in the declarations are not the individual opinion of our colleague Spas Gurnevski and our colleague Anton Todorov, but are the opinion of the entire parliamentary group of GERB, expressor of the political views of GERB party. If we reason on this logic and enter into this logic, this means that not some radical wing, core or whatever, or a radical cloud appears in the parliamentary hall, and this is the general evaluation of GERB party for BSP, for our history, for the character of our party. We're never gonna accept this thing. And for this reason we asked for Mr. Glauchev's resignation because these declarations mean that there is no rethinking from certain circles, perhaps in GERB party, I do not know whether in the leadership it is so, of these two radically opposite views about the Bulgarian history in the 20th century. We will defend and have repeatedly said the socialist period in the development of Bulgaria as constructive, constructive, achieved peaks in culture, history, economy, science and the Bulgarian Socialist Party is the party that symbolizes this period. We will not allow the party of Bulgarian workers, which, in 1914, together with the party of farmers, declared against World War I to be otherwise qualified, which paid with expensive sacrifices the 9th-June Fascist coup and the guerrilla war in Bulgaria. I believe that on these issues either a common understanding of our history, of our values and to go to the national union and consolidation that we all want, or it will remain a cabinet phraseology of a party that temporarily finds itself in power.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u105	She's 11 years old.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u106	For this reason today's debate is extremely serious. It's not just about Mr. Glauchev's resignation. It is for the position of the Political Party GERB in terms of the past and, of course, in terms of the future. Therefore, honourable Members, we have put this issue on the agenda. That is why Parliament does not work, not because there are no draft laws written, not because the administration, to which someone has decided to send a letter to draw up a programme, has not done its job, but because the agenda of Bulgaria's political agenda, of our society, of the government of our country is gone. And it is not because of an unsuccessful party effort, not because of the extraordinary elections, because someone has written a hasty election program to have it, but because the content issues of the Bulgarian society are absent from this agenda. And here I really regret the situation that Mr. Glauchev came into because he cannot fill with his own role this political, ideal, ideological, personnel and any other deficit. And if we are aware of the problems that are facing Bulgaria, and if we are aware of our own, including the ruling majority of the handicaps, the personnel, the political, the ideas and other shortcomings, then we will find that time when the authority of the Bulgarian institution National Assembly will be such that the Bulgarian citizens will believe and not the sociological agencies will find any percentages in a few months. Our authority cannot be based on sociological agencies. At the heart of today's problem, today's clash, today's misunderstanding, and with that, I want to end, is that unresolved question, that dual, diametric, opposite assessment of our own history, who are we and where are we? BSP will not be reconciled with this version, with these qualifications, with this, I will say deviant behavior and at any moment when the parliamentary character of the party is questioned, at any moment when the history of the Bulgarian Workers, Social Democratic, Communist and Bulgarian Socialist Party is questioned, you will receive the relevant political response until you understand that the Bulgarian history, the history of our party, our political views are an essential element of the development of the Bulgarian society. That's why we asked for Mr. Glauchev's resignation. We hope that this will be understood. We will not allow such declarations in the future. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u107	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. - What's the line? Admiral Manushev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u108	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! I take the floor for a reply, as Mr. Zablyanov tried to pervert Bulgarian history and to say that my grandfather went to fight imperialist war in 1915 and that the efforts of the entire Bulgarian people, and the greatest effort of the Bulgarian people in his story for the liberation of his brothers and for the unification of the country is something imperialist. No! The whole people have gone to fight, to free their brothers. And this war, I don't know what declaration his party has accepted, and the farmers, it's something we shouldn't have started, that there are some imperialist goals to take to some lands, no, it wasn't! One hundred and twenty thousand victims gave the people 250 thousand wounded to free the brothers and unite the Fatherland. So we owe it to those men who died for the Fatherland. They did not wage imperialist war, they fought a liberation war to unite the Fatherland. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u109	Thank you, Admiral Manushev. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u110	Mr. Manushev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm extremely pleased with the line. Thank you for her, which only shows that the time we talk about goes through the good knowledge of history. The war you're talking about is the Balkan War. The declaration by Bulgarian farmers and Bulgarian Social Democrats was adopted on the occasion of the First World War. These are two separate wars. The second issue, which is also important, is not given by the Bulgarian Social Democrats. This is a war that has a series of names: the great war, the European war, World War I, imperialist war and all kinds of war. These are important details because words, when we use them, have specific content and mean something. Thanks for the line. Accuracy is extremely important! For us Socialists, Social Democrats and Communists, the issue of peace has always been above the issue of war. I respect the understanding of an admiral of the Bulgarian Army, of course, he always has a different attitude on this subject. However, it was about a clear context, about specific qualifications that were used in the declarations, and in this context I used this example. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u111	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Any other statements, Mr. Bikov? You're giving up. Mr. Rashidov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u112	Mrs. Chairman! Colleagues, as far as I can see, you wanted the resignation of the President of the National Assembly, and it was for hatred. I can see you're not planting tulips, but the exact same hateful language you used. [[Applause from GERB.]] I suggest that you put an end to this shameful debate and we really vote on this resignation. The chairman should sit in his seat and stop defileing the parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u113	Is this a procedure, Mr. Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u114	Please! I'm gonna stay here for four years and I don't want to bathe in dirty water. Stop it! Please vote and finally stop this shameful debate. And I'm asking you to.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u115	Debate termination procedure. [[Noise, cheer and lines.]] A counteroffer? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u116	I'm making a line because Vejdi Rashidov's proposal is unacceptable, we're talking about a solution. With regard to the replica, your call, Vejdi Rashidov, why are you doing it now and not before these bloody declarations? Now all of a sudden, you realize you've been dirty. And when from this stand, under Mr. Glauchev's unmistakable gaze, division and hatred occur, then where were you?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u117	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Rashidov, one question regarding your speech: Do you stand with your face, with your intelligence, with your ability to reflect reality, because you make life more beautiful with both declarations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u119	Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u120	Madam President, colleagues, I have made this statement to stop, not for anything else. It is a shame when there are so many little children waiting to greet us in the couloirs of this parliament today, to show them what we are. [[Reply.]] No, we don't look good in their eyes. That's why I asked us to stop hating. There's hatred all over this room. You started asking for your resignation from hatred for hate and for hatred. You can't feel each other. So I asked us to vote to end this thing and whatever the voices say and go in front of the clean-faced children. That's what I suggested. There are really little children of ours sitting in the towers, and we should be ashamed of that, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u121	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Unfortunately, there is no way to vote on a procedure to interrupt the debate. We have to run out of time under the rules. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Hamid. I hope you will continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u122	Thank you, Madam President of the National Assembly. Today you are holding a wonderful meeting. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will vote for the requested resignation of the President of the National Assembly because he systematically and repeatedly in holding meetings in his work allows the language of hatred in the Bulgarian Parliament. The Parliamentary Group will support the requested resignation because, assuming the language of hatred, the President of the National Assembly remains silent, and this language of hatred does not receive a dignified response from the President of the National Assembly. The language of hatred, honourable MPs, is not a new phenomenon in the Bulgarian Parliament, in the Bulgarian society. We are constantly fighting the Movement for Rights and Freedoms for more than ten years, every day, in all formats, fighting against the use of hate language. Today in Europe, the greatest civil union, the greatest movement is the fight against hate language. The largest parliamentary forum of 47 countries, the Council of Europe, for more than three years each session starts with a call against hate speech, we all raise some signs. Colleagues, the admission of hate language by the President of the National Assembly is unacceptable in the Bulgarian Parliament. There's no reaction to the MPs after that. Moreover, those who use the language of hatred from the tribune, with the same tone with which they use the language of hatred, call for unity and unity. No one can understand that, colleagues. You were arguing a little while ago on historical facts about the Balkan wars. Let's get back to reality, and it's not face-to-face. Today, the language of hatred that the President of the National Assembly allows in the Bulgarian Parliament is an official language both in the Council of Ministers and in the Bulgarian Parliament and in the Bulgarian society. Today, colleagues, the language of hatred has become the fundamental value of this majority. Where does that leave us? How does this call sound to you in many speeches by Members of the National Assembly: "Bulgaria over everything! "? In the context of the literal translation from German? What has this call brought to the whole world? We all know the events are tragic. There is no room for hate speech in this Parliament, no room for such behaviour. We call on you, Mr. Glauchev, you have had a chance to avoid this debate and take advantage of this. 1 in para. 1 of art. 5. You didn't. You could have left Parliament with dignity. Therefore every day, every day and hour Your resignation will be on the agenda in the Bulgarian society. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? Mr. Popov has a statement. Wait, because your group has already spoken. Here you go, Mr. Stanilov. There was no line to Mr. Hamid's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u124	A small note from the United Patriarchs. Here the language of hatred that I have been listening to for 13 years in this Parliament is used to conceal the truth. When you decide to say something that is true, they immediately say: a language of hatred. In Europe, the same is true political correctness is protection of real European life, and they simply imitate something that is not there. I've been here when MPs from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have spoken with hate speech many times, formatted in the same sense. [[Reply from DPS: "When? "]] Well, when? Now that you're challenging me, I'll tell you when. When the attack on Ahmed Dogan took place, Lutvi Mestan came out here and blamed the entire Bulgarian people for this attack, with the language of hatred it was. Isn't that right? I kept quiet then, not to get into personal conflicts here, not to get into scandals. That was the truth. When the truth is spoken, softer words can be used, of course, but it will not suffer or become a language of hatred. Stop this hate speech because hate language becomes your mantra, your motto. In addition, Bulgaria above all is the motto of the United Patriarchs. No one has the right to change that motto. No one has the right to accuse us and compare this motto with the Nazi: We are simply speaking the truth in defence of the Bulgarian people. I can discuss this any way you want. Because I think the debate we're having here is unsolicited, so we don't call her, and I don't call. This debate is not serious at the beginning of the term to ask the President of the National Assembly to resign because the National Assembly, you see, did not work. That's how I tell you, overreacting, overreacting. I even have my own personal opinion, and I will tell it to the socialist gentlemen if you hadn't overreacted in the elections, perhaps you would have won them. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Stanilov. The line is Mr. Zablyanov. Would you like a time extension, Mr. Zablyanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u126	Yes, please extend the time at the expense of the group. Mr. Stanilov raised an extremely important question... the question of truth, political hypocrisy, good parliamentary manners and the legislative process how to be joint. The question of truth, Mr. Stanilov, as recorded in the Bulgarian Constitution, cannot be owned by a political party. You may try to speak the truth as you see it, but the Constitution says that no party ideology can be declared exceptional, state-owned and so on. This article of the Constitution prevents exactly what you are worried about from declaring a party truth to all Bulgarians and all Bulgarian citizens. That's why there's the so-called pluralism of opinions, of thinking, of visions, of ideas. Do not call us, please, I respect the findings and I share many of the views of my fellow patriotic parties, but do not force us to perceive your view of the truth, as the political truth does not exist. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u127	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Stanilov. Professor Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u128	Our truth, as the colleague said, will become really non-political when the whole Bulgarian people recognize it. We didn't force anyone to do anything. We claim what we think, and it's what we believe. The confrontations that occur after certain actions are the result of our views on things, on the state of the Bulgarian people. The very fact that several parties after some time since the establishment, since the entry of a Bulgarian patriotic, nationalist and so on party in parliament, the fact that in many programs our views have found a place, says that someone is still getting closer to our truth. Once again, we don't force anyone, we don't say anything against anyone, but we say what we think. That's our truth. That's why with this truth, our constituents have sent us to Parliament, not to another.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u129	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. For a statement, Mr. Popov? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u130	There are other speeches before me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u131	Any other speeches? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u132	Madam President, honourable Members! The Group of the United Patriarchs will not support the Decision Project, as we generally appreciate it as an increase of the opposition, which is generally helpless, infantile, pointless, sucked out of the fingers. It is simply that we have not heard in the debate any personal accusations, not a single clear violation by the President, whose post is being challenged. Frankly, listening to the speeches, I was wondering in fact what the colleagues on the left want the Chairman's resignation or the deletion of the political party GERB, the deletion of anticommunism as a way of thinking. This is not making sense as political behavior, at least in our opinion. All the time, as the colleague said, there's talk of some language of hatred, there's some common phrases going around. The same thing we see on the left is the same absolute branding, unmotivated accusation and generally a desire for opposition, as if this opposition is the only reason to justify the word "alternative" which you have glued to your left. No, it is not the opposition that can make you an alternative, constructiveism can make you and this is our wish to you. No more circuses, no more empty show programs, we better look for the ones to constructively debate on. In this case, in the first days of the National Assembly's work, to ask the President's resignation for the fact that the government did not do something, another did not submit bills and so on, i.e. nothing that is directly related to his work, for me and for our group is just another piercing move of the left and for this reason we will not support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u133	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Any lines to Mr. Veselinov's statement? I can't see. Mr. Popov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! They say silence is a sign of consent. I have so far seen from the ruling majority guilty of silence regarding the substance of the issue raised today. At the beginning of this National Assembly, after its election, Mr. Glauchev clearly and categorically stated and promised to objectively manage the meetings of the National Assembly, to observe the Rules, to work to raise the authority, the image of the National Assembly. Only weeks after this promise, after his election, Mr. Glauchev broke his own promise, and systematically, breaking the rules. By the way, this is the behaviour of the parliamentary group of GERB on the one hand talking about unification around national priorities and, on the other hand, declare, repeat, declare here, from this tribune, division and hatred. I understand this tactic. This is done because a management infirmity is concealed by bloody declarations. I understand it, but it's not management, it's not government, it's not democratic. System Mr. Glauchev violates the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, and according to art. 8, para. 1, t. 10 The President of the National Assembly provides and monitors compliance with these Rules, the same Rules, which you, the honourable Members of GERB and the United Patriarchs, voted here just six weeks ago. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] When did Mr. Glauchev meet the requirements of art. 158, which clearly states that a remark is made by the President to a Member of the National Assembly who has addressed a colleague or colleagues with abusive words, gestures or threats? I ask Mr. Glauchev: Is sending to Siberia a trip for him, or is it a threat?! [[GERB lines.]] In respect of art. 162, para. 1, t. 1: The President may remove for more than one meeting, but not more than three is the most severe measure, by the way, the MP who insults the National Assembly. What is essentially the National Assembly, honourable Members of Parliament? Isn't this all of us here, including the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, which represents 1 million Bulgarians in this National Assembly? How many times have we been called the murderers and the kinless, the Bulgarians have slaughtered, the non-Bulgarian political party...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u135	Mr. Popov, we heard that from Mrs. Ninova. We read the rules with her.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u136	Including in today's sitting under the eyes of Mrs. Karayancheva, who also did not take any measures under the Rules of Procedure, twice from here a non-Bulgarian party called us. How Mr. Glauchev and why Mr. Glauchev did not raise the question before the Presidents of the Standing Committees why they did not submit to the meetings of the relevant committees the drafts submitted by us... important bills for our society, right at the beginning of this National Assembly. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] We have committees, but we don't watch them. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u137	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u138	There were two draft laws, both lobbyists, one of them, thank God, you pulled it under pressure from public and from the opposition, but the second one goes away. Why didn't Mr. Glauchev pay attention to the Chairmans? We don't have an answer either. Here is the systemality in his conduct and in violation of the Rules of the National Assembly. Finally, on the eve of the celebrations of the Botev holidays, I turn to those who write these bloody declarations, condemning the parliamentary group of BSP and the BSP as a party Thank you. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u139	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Mr. Tsonev has the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! We will indeed support, we have taken a decision at a meeting of the parliamentary group, the request for resignation and the main motive is really the admission of hate language. I respect Professor Stanilov both as a historian and as a person and as an opponent, but the language of the attempt with a good tone to explain that arguments are not a language of hatred, does not correspond to the truth. From this tribune there are indeed cases where serious language of hatred is poured out. I am tempted, but I will not do it, to quote the Gospel of John, because it begins with words of the word... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'm not going to quote it, I'm saying what it starts with and what the meaning of the word is. In fact, speech is an extremely important thing, and said by the parliamentary tribune, it takes effect. It is an act of division, it is an act of hatred between people, between individual party biases, worse between individual religious communities, worse between individual ethnic groups, and worse still, this has a direct relation to national security. And if historians don't know that this is directly related to national security, I don't know who should know. Rivers of blood are shed by the word of hate. First of all, out of speech, not out of action! And here from this tribune, honored Mr. Glauchev, our vision, the vision of the DPS, is that in no way can this be allowed to happen. And this is the work of the first between equals, and that's why we have contempt for you. You can't let that happen. It is not that in other parliaments other chairmen have not allowed it, but we have reacted in the same way at the time. Whether you remain president or be elected new, our requirement on this point will always be the same, relentless. People listen, people get influenced. As much as our actions have lowered the rating of this institution, this tribune is very high. The words of this tribune are heard, people are influenced. That's why this debate today is no joke, it's not fictional and it's not politicized. If I have to support with examples, I will certainly give many examples of how many times out of this tribune there really was a language of hatred and a corresponding language of division and of the planting of conflict. But you don't have to. We have repeatedly exported them to the media, from the stands, and in declarations, we just don't need to remind ourselves of the same thing all the time. On the contrary, we need to comfort what is happening in society from this tribune, we need to conduct exactly such a policy with speech, because speech is the main weapon of politics. I cannot agree that hate language represents arguments in one or another patriotic or nationalist formation. You can't call mothers dogs and it's a party program, you can't call religious people who call on those who pray, they call God on behalf of those who beg, you call them people and so on, and that doesn't trigger a response, a response in this group of people, whoever they are. So we have to think very seriously after this debate and the one behind us as the first between equals, whoever he is, absolutely shouldn't do it. It's not some self-inflicted call. In this desire of DPS here, from this tribune, really not having such a language, is our whole philosophy and our whole view of peaceful co-existence between all people in Bulgaria, among ethnicities, among different religions, and this is the philosophy of our society, of the peace that we managed to preserve when our neighbors failed to protect it. The example we give from here, of course, and from the media, from our other speaking in public, is very important, but today we are talking about our talking here, from this tribune. The other topic, which is extremely important when it comes to the first between equals, is to treat all of them equally, both to their own and to their opponents. You can't interrupt exactly the minute, as the Rules, opponents and opposition require, but be kind to your own, at least don't talk about good upbringing. I will say that this eats away the spirit of parliamentaryism in this House. Rules must be followed, but in addition to the letter of the Law, as is the Rule, there is also a spirit of the Law and parliamentaryism is more important than the letter of the Rules. You shouldn't talk long and long, but you shouldn't be formally interrupted, you should finish your thought. Here, on this tribune, no robots are uploaded, which are programmed in two minutes, and right now they're shutting down. This is absolutely unacceptable, turning the National Assembly into what it is in its denial, not in parliament. Therefore, I propose to you, colleagues from GERB, and to you, Mr. Glauchev, take seriously the criticisms you receive regardless of what the result of the vote will be. We really want the Bulgarian Parliament to be a real parliament and everyone to expose their positions with one tone, which does not create divisions in society. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u141	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I give the floor to Mr. Bikov. Here you go. [[Voices "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria" and "DPS."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u142	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The motion of this resignation...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u143	The map, Mr. Bikov! [[Voices "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria".]] I beg your patience and silence in this Chamber!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u144	I'm sorry. I know you're too hurt. I found out today. The request of this resignation is not a procedural matter. This is a political issue and it is part of a political process. This is part of a political process that started a year ago. For one year now BSP and your strategic partner from the DPS are organizing a confrontation in society. I will remind you of a series of disinformations that have been running for a year. Order 208, which you no longer speak of, which you call betrayal...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u145	Which is not acceptable!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u146	Exactly, so, repealed and replaced by a much more liberal decree by the government appointed by President Radev. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "It" is canceled! "]] You said that Bulgaria will not be granted 160 million. Euros, Mrs. Ninova. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, I want to explain why it came to this. You've been lying to us for a whole election campaign. We answered you this way after the elections: we proposed to Mrs. Ninova to become President of the National Assembly. She's entitled to refuse, we accept that position. We have given you the presidency of three parliamentary committees, supported you for two of your proposals for committees of inquiry. That was a gesture. This was a political gesture for holding a civilised dialogue in the 44th National Assembly. To this gesture you responded by calling us fascists, extreme nationalists, accusing us of censorship, of destroying democracy, and today also of speaking hate. That was your political position. Today you want the resignation of the President of the National Assembly to destabilize the state. This is the strategy that has been going for the last year and which failed thanks to us and thanks to the Bulgarian people, which did not allow you to enter the government and fail once again. You should be grateful to this people because this people realized that you are in a crisis of identity. [[Applause from GERB]] , the ideological identity, the national and religious identity [[Applause from GERB]] . Your party before the elections was extremely nationalist and anti-European. Today I see a prelop, you have become extreme liberals!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u147	Mr. Bikov, please proceed to Mr. Glauchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u148	That is why we will support Mr. Glauchev and vote for him to remain President of the National Assembly, because as right we are called to hold your drive to destruction and to revolution. [[Applause from GERB]] . That's what your communist manifestos say...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u149	What does it say? What does it say? Read it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u150	...and your ideology. Thank you for your attention, and I hope that after this debate this will stop, even though I don't believe it. I think you will continue with your destructive activities and trying to destabilize Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u151	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Line, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bikov! That's what we're talking about, and apparently you couldn't help but show your true colors. You continued with this language of insults for destructiveness and that, almost, you see, we want to work against the stabilisation of the country. On the contrary, this debate is exactly the opposite debate.. the debate to work, to pass laws, and of course, to have a clash between the left and the right, because here is precisely the place for this political clash! I do not know what destructiveness you are talking about and how you are stabilizing everything, provided that the political party GERB has not yet earned its mandate! You can't pass a term and talk about how, you see, you're doing the big stabilization! However, you did not endure, so we started very clearly and explained our arguments for this resignation of Mr. Glauchev. We want to work and stop these insults, but you de facto confirm this our thesis! You want this clash and you want this hatred, you want this division. If we really sit down and choose a new president and we really agree that the laws that you have made, because yes, and you have tabled laws, but it is also important for us. We brought them in much longer and nothing happens! That is the problem, and not the issue in the number itself, but you de facto want this political clash. Yeah, you'll get it. You will get it, but in the end you are confirmation of the words you said that hatred comes exactly from the right. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u153	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Replices, others? First, let me see from the other groups, so we can alternate. Here you go, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u154	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Bikov, I am pleased to see from you the knowledge of the Communist manifesto, other left texts, but I would like to recommend something else. Did you know that I am from Plovdiv and I will quote to you a Plovdiv proletarian poet who wrote the following quad: A warrior from the east will come upon death, who has passed a historical exam rated with a red star! His name is Spas Gurnevsky. You should have read his work! [[(Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u155	A hole? Any other lines? [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Quiet, please! [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We're not at a show! [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please be quiet in the hall, colleagues on the left! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Any other lines? A hole? Here you go, Mr. Bikov. [[Noise and lines.]] Here we read books, we quote verses, much spiritualized discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u156	Mr. Stoinev, the two statements that outraged you were in response to two of your declarations: to Mrs. Nino, who accused... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, you're lying. I don't accept this part of the room because that's what you're famous for. You fired the first shots in this battle. I am also not a fan of this here today to stand and fight, and today to waste time on something absolutely unnecessary? of the sixth week to ask for the resignation of the President of Parliament!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u157	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u158	Mr. Simov will answer that I, besides the Communist manifesto, have also read "Besovie" by Fyodor Mihajlovic Dostoevski. I advise each one of you to read it because it is dedicated to your idea [[Applause]] and predicts what will happen, and very precisely when your idea wins, or this idea of yours, which is based on the revolutionary principle, I repeat on the basis of the destruction of religion and family, based on the destruction of the state and statehood, this is the Communist manifesto based on the destruction of private property. It's obviously in your genesis, although most of you probably haven't read it, but in your party's genies are being designed in the present time. I regret that you appreciate history in another way than we appreciate it, and we will certainly have clashes in the future, but I hope that we still remember that we are Bulgarian MPs and should defend the Bulgarian national interest in a very complex international environment instead of dealing with the nonsense you are dealing with at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u159	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Any other speeches? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, I'm not gonna give you a personal explanation, because they're gonna charge some spirals with personal explanations... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] For speeches, colleagues? No more speeches? Do you have a statement, Mr. Gurnevsky? You're giving up your speech. Mr. Tsvetanov for speaking. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u160	There are rules, there are rules! [[Noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u161	I'll give the word to whom I decide! [[Speaks and exclaims: "Eeeee! "]] Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We see that today is quite emotional in terms of the fact that all MPs are present in the Chamber. Because during the meetings there were parliamentary groups who were leaving the meetings to make their meetings of their parliamentary groups. I believe that the reasons for the resignation are untenable and in the way the debate is going so far, it becomes clear to everyone that this was only to be able to have some activity from the parliamentary group of BSP to Bulgaria. Yesterday, when you went out and left the Chamber, yes, there was indeed only one MP from your parliamentary group left. Why didn't you leave him? Because you know you can't stand in front of the voters and say that you left the parliament so you can satisfy your political... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Madam President, please, let her still have respect...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u163	Please be quiet in the hall! Don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u164	Dear colleagues from the BSP and from your parliamentary group, unlike your previous parliamentary groups who were present in the previous parliaments, there could indeed be very constructively spoken on the draft laws that entered the case-law and, of course, the debates that are being held in the committees and in the plenary. Just to tell you that not the amount of the submitted bills is equal to the quality that comes out of the Bulgarian Parliament. And what you are saying is that there is no legislative initiative from the Parliament, I think, however, that when there is legislation which directly corresponds to the commitments made by a political party or the ruling majority, you understand that some of them must also pass through the Council of Ministers. Right here I can tell you that if we were as active as you were in the forty-second parliament, we might have created much more tension. But what the Bulgarian government is currently doing and gives an example of the anti-corruption legislation that is ready, and we could have imported it on the first day, we did not bring it in because the Council of Ministers and, respectively, the Ministry of Justice created a working group so that it could go to public discussion and hear the non-governmental sector about all that we will do as legislation. Because we have never pretended to be the most knowledgeable, the most capable and have always taken into account the non-governmental sector, public discussions and civil society. What I can clearly state right now is that the parliamentary group of GERB will stand firmly behind President Dimitar Glavchev because Dimitar Glavchev is an extremely erudite person, a good professional. I can tell you that he is the man who has always given everyone the opportunity to express his opinion. And the problem is that when we get out of the Presidential Council, inside the Chamber, the relevant representatives of certain parliamentary groups show another person, another behavior. And since there is much debate about divisions, about hatred, I can say one thing: you have given this tone of behavior! Because in the first declarations, which were on the first day of the forty-fourth parliament, everyone said that they would have their position, but no one talked about aggression and hatred. If you had not given that tone with your first declarations, there would have been no reply with the declarations coming out of the parliamentary group by MPs. Let us remember the week before May 24th, when from our parliamentary group, the chairman of the Committee on Education Milena Damyanova and Galya Zaharieva were the colleagues who prepared a declaration with which they wanted to give what they deserved on this bright day. Then you gave another tone. Then precisely colleague Anton Todorov rose from this parliamentary tribune and spoke after you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u165	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u166	Dear colleagues on the left from BSP, let us know that everything we do in this Parliament is being accumulated by the Bulgarian Parliament institution. So my request is to close this page, assuming that this was the probationary term of the forty-fourth parliament, and to start working on the substance. Today, there are already bills that need to be viewed in plenary. They can be a fact not only today, but also in the coming days, because the committees have already begun to look at the accounts of certain institutions over which the necessary parliamentary control is to be carried out and the legislation to be adopted. The government submitted on Wednesday a bill to amend and supplement the Penal Procedure Code to the Penal Code. There is an initiative by MPs who submitted the relevant bills. We are also prepared with the Law on Changes to the Road Traffic Act, because we understand that here we can all unite and do so that we can limit road mortality and create some more restrictive measures that will result. There are topics on which we can actually unite, and as far as the President's Advisory Council is concerned, I can say that there are also many manipulations and suggestions that have been made after this Advisory Council. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, this is also on the subject, because it was affected precisely by you, by the reasons that were presented by your President. Have you forgotten two hours ago what the motives were and what was said by this parliamentary tribune?! There was talk of the Advisory Council and there was talk about exactly that 1,000 policemen would not be appointed because this was not the implementation of our election campaign. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It is not you who can give an assessment of what will happen at the end of the year. Let the calendar 2017 expire and then we will stand right here on this parliamentary platform and note that there are 1,000 employees assigned to the security sector. Ms. Ninova, you know that the Advisory Council explained that there have been procedures that have already been launched, competitions for over 470 candidates for work in the Ministry of Interior system. The other competitions will be held by the end of the year. Why can't you be honest when you stand and talk when there are cameras? When we are at the Advisory Council, we really want to talk constructively, to talk with consensus when the president of the country, who was your nomination and was supported most by you, he read the declaration and said that all the parliamentary groups who attended this Advisory Council, reached a full consensus. Five minutes later you stood in front of the cameras and spoke quite diametrically opposite these. I think that we should, standing out of such a high tribune as the Bulgarian Parliament, speak in a meaningful way, speak objectively and, above all, reduce tensions. Yes, indeed colleagues with the declarations have definitely affected some BSP colleagues. You and your declarations have definitely affected colleagues from our parliamentary group and the government of Bulgaria. Colleagues, if we go down this road: You are an aggressive declaration, we are an aggressive declaration, believe me that this will neither be good for you nor good for us. First of all, Bulgaria and Bulgarian citizens will suffer. Because, when you presented the reasons, you said: "You too, I believe that in the Bulgarian Parliament we should be all of us!" We shouldn't be [[Applause from GERB.]] We can share when we are doing parliamentary campaigns for the National Assembly, when we are campaigning for local authorities, for presidents, and elections. When the elections are over, entering the Bulgarian Parliament, each of us is equal and each of us is a MP from a multi-mandated electoral area. Just two days ago, when I was in Gorna Oryahovitsa, your MP was present, and our MPs, together with me, because I was elected by the Veliko Tarnovo multi-mandated electoral region. When I was given the floor, I said that all MPs, regardless of which political power they are elected from, should work for the prosperity and development of the regions from which we are elected. I don't see anything wrong with talking about it. I would like to thank my opposition colleagues for yesterday's very meaningful, constructive dialogue that we had in the Internal Commission. We come to the conclusion that, in the relevant portfolio committees, when we talk about policies, we can really unite and work together. Proposals were heard for the report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, we spoke so professionally and so responsibly. As a matter of fact, Mr. Krasimir Jankov said: "Praise me. Yes, I will commend you, Mr. Iankov, because you really have asked very meaningful questions. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u167	Mr. Tsvetanov, let's talk about this.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u168	They were critical, but also very constructive. Colleagues, when something good is done, it should be appreciated. I would therefore like to congratulate Vejdi Rashidov on the way he made his short speech and Snezhana Dukova because believe that we have three more years and nine months in this Parliament. If we're not so responsible, that means we just have to leave. We want to spend the entire four-year term because Bulgaria needs this We are dealing with the necessary responsibility and I am convinced that you and your various opinions will be part of the success that we will achieve all the parliamentary groups in the forty-fourth Parliament. [[Woman cheering from GERB.]] Colleagues, if you continue this way, I think it will not be productive, it will not be constructive, but we will have important decisions to make! Thank you, I apologize on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group's declarations if anyone has felt affected. Colleagues, let each one make such an apology. I assure you that if we really have the valor, the responsibility to conduct ourselves only in the public interest, such declarations with similar content will not be part of the forty-fourth parliament. If you keep this commitment, believe that we will never break this rule first. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u169	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Mrs. Nino, come in for a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Regarding me, Mr. Tsvetanov raised two major political issues. One: We are different until the elections, with different platforms, with different ideas for development and according to his ideas after the elections we are together. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u171	I don't think that's what you meant.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u172	I cannot accept this as an address to me because it would be a betrayal to both yours and our constituents. People who believe that the tax system should be maintained have voted for you. For us, we have voted people who believe that family income tax should be introduced to help young families. There is no political and ideological way for us to be different until the elections, then together! This collaboration between different ideological platforms and parties in Europe has led to many problems, to delict both the left and the right. We cannot agree with this thesis, even if it passes through the proposal for a post of President of the National Assembly. We remain different and we are an alternative! Here we should be together when it comes to Bulgaria. We have declared that we are ready to help with everything for the Presidency of the European Union, provided that our priorities are developed in this House and approved together. Mr. Borisov agreed. But have you heard and seen priorities so far? No! We have stated that national security is a top priority for all of us. Mr. Tsvetanov, I will never allow you to manipulate the information from the Advisory Council...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u173	Mrs. Ninova, time's up. [[Strength noise in BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u174	You knew about the sharp clash between me and Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u175	Time's up, Mrs. Ninova, thank you. You had your chance. [[The President turns off the microphones. Cornelia Ninova keeps talking to off microphones. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] I stated at the beginning of the sitting that I would follow the Rules strictly and I would regulate and interrupt within the minutes laid down in the Rules. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, the resignation of the President of the National Assembly is one of the most important political issues. It is quite normal, Mr. Tsvetanov, that the entire BSP parliamentary group be here in this room. This is an expression of responsibility and respect for the subject under discussion. I understand that after Mr. Mareshki's return you start counting the votes and the outcome of this vote. It's okay to be worried. Since the debate so far, it has become clear about the obvious lack of a majority management legislative programme... But I want to talk about the other argument about the removal of Mr. Glauchev. He is the admission of arrogant behavior, in a language of hatred from this tribune. I would like to ask the representatives of the parliamentary group of GERB, of BSP I know them, but the parliamentary group of GERB when are they sincere? When they claim to be handing out to BSP, when they invite Cornelia Ninova to become President of the National Assembly, when they invite representatives of BSP to become part of the government of Mr. Borisov, or when on behalf of the parliamentary group they read declarations in which they qualify us as murderers, as kinless...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u177	Mr. Boychev, this is the third and fourth time we've heard this.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u178	The Bulgarians, as well as the Turks, have not slaughtered them as representatives of a non-Bulgarian political party. Those words sounded out of that tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u179	We've already heard it three or four times.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u180	This is one of the arguments to ask for Mr. Glauchev's resignation, as one of his duties as President of the National Assembly is not to allow offensive qualifications, not to allow personal attacks on anyone. Because by drawing dividing lines in this hall, we draw and dividing lines in Bulgarian society. We cannot accept this extremely irresponsible behavior of GERB to conceal its powerlessness, the lack of a legislative programme, with constant scandals in this Chamber and with attacks and accusations against the opposition. And since there's a lot of talk about destructive behavior here, there's a lot of talk about consensus, I'd like to say a few words about that. There is no way to accept this understanding of consensus, not because we do not believe in consensus and unification around important national problems and objectives. We have proved it not one time or another, but we cannot accept your understanding of consensus, which denies the right to another opinion. We cannot accept your understanding of a consensus that surrounds the main problems and does not discuss the main problems of Bulgarian citizens. We cannot accept your understanding of a consensus behind which the distribution of power and funds is concealed. There is no way to accept this request for consensus behind which widespread corruption is concealed in the country. That's what BSP's gonna be against. The Bulgarian Socialist Party will be a consistent defender of Bulgarian parliamentaryism and will continue to defend the interests of the majority of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from the BSR for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u181	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Mareshki felt hurt because his name was used. Here's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u182	Thank you, Madam President. I'm definitely offended because someone let us down and said the circus is over and we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u183	Mr. Mareshki, please, no such definitions!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u184	Several times from different places the same word was used. I'm just repeating it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u185	I made remarks!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u186	I apologize. Our parliamentary group is here because we thought we were going to vote. We have to make the distinction because for one million and one thing, for the others, almost one million, and for us we have voted about 150 000 Bulgarians who have voted as an expression of the desire to change the entire political scheme, for a change in the way of work of Parliament as we are currently working. That's why I want to tell you that you're here for us and you're here for us. We have not read any declarations in which there is a language of hatred for any of you. All we do is call you to pragmatism, to realism and to work in the interests of the Bulgarian people, the Bulgarian business and the Bulgarian state. I call on you to abort. If you're still thinking about moving on, we'll still go out and come back for the vote. We're all entitled to one vote, and he's equal. We have the right to.............. and abstention...................................... and There's no need for three hours of empty debate that he'll be writing about tomorrow on all the media that we haven't done anything yet, and we've been competing for idle talk. Anyone can express his vote in the vote and then tell the media why he voted in this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u187	How are you going to vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u188	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Any other speeches? I can't see. I give the floor to Mr. Glauchev by art. 5, para. 4 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly for Speaking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u189	My fellow Members, from the beginning of my speech I will declare that I respect all Bulgarian voters equally. Such is the understanding in the Constitution and the division of.......................................... is not in line with the Constitution. Deal with the texts of the Constitution. I will not dwell on the reasons for the request for resignation, as they are absolutely untenable. Not only is there no systematic violation, but there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure at all. Read again what the duties of the President of the National Assembly are. Among other things, the motives are also contradictory because you say that "extends its powers" and, on the other hand, you say that no powers are exercised. However, where you quoted the text, Mr. Popov, you should have read correctly the whole text that it may impose penalties, but there is no such obligation. You make a legal difference what that means, don't you? Maybe, but he doesn't have to. There's a difference! What do you really want me to do, punish or not exceed my authority? Make a judgment call. As for whether Parliament's work is ensured, it is the duty of the President of the National Assembly to ensure order in the plenary. And you know that very well. From there on, if you think I haven't proposed a bill in plenary, your group has the absolute right every Wednesday under para. 3 to offer a point. [[Reply of National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] See, you answered your own question if he didn't go to committee, how can I suggest that?! Then let's go back to how they pass through the committees. Who sets the committee agenda? I regret that I am busy with the entire audience, including the media, with clarification of the Rules of the National Assembly, but obviously there is a need. Who sets the committee agenda? Who? The committee's leadership is one third of the members of the committee. You have a third in the committees. Why didn't you offer an agenda to the committees? [[Applause from GERB.]] Are you sincere in your desire to look at these bills? Why didn't your committee representatives suggest it? And only the third hypothesis is by order of the President of the National Assembly. Well, wouldn't the President of the National Assembly, whoever he is, exceed his authority if necessary, before the previous two hypotheses are fulfilled? I'm asking you a legal case. You have lawyers in the group. Let them tell you when there will be overpowerment. Please, I feel that there is an inconvenience in the signing of the reasons for resignation, the so-called resignation of the President of the National Assembly in your group. Read the Rules before signing anything. I'm saying this best so you don't get in an awkward situation. I'm not gonna dwell on whether or not all of the signatures did it. That's what I leave to the conscience of those who didn't sign, and they signed it, if there is one, of course. On that condition. [[Strength noise in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Otherwise, we all have to work together for the Presidency. This is a rare chance for the Bulgarian Parliament to ask European topics in the region, not only in Bulgaria, in the Western Balkans to pass the European specifics. It's a rare chance, and it's worth it for all of us to do it. I believe that if you have such a sincere desire, you should support it, any President of the National Assembly. Otherwise, theater and politics are similar. Roles are played, however, everyone chooses whether to play a positive or negative role. It's important as a person what's left. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP groups.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u190	Thank you, dear Mr. Glauchev. [[Applause from GERB and OP groups.]] Thanks, guys. We are now going to vote on the draft decision. Project! DECISION on request for early release of Mr. Dimitar Borisov Glavchev from the position of President of the National Assembly. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 5, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He released Mr. Dimitar Borisov from the post of Chairman of the Forty-fourth National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please, voting mode. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 232 MPs: for 114, against 118, abstentions are not. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause from GERB and OP groups.]] Mr. Glauchev, please take the stand. [[Extending applause from the GERB and OP groups. Noise in the hall.]] Please group up. Revoting procedure. I'm not afraid of anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u191	On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, we propose a re-vote. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u192	Revoting please, colleagues, revoting procedure! A repeat is a mother of knowledge. [[Noise.]] Vote 232 MPs: for 114, against 118, abstentions are not. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause from GERB and OP groups. Revelations: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u193	Is there a negative vote? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! I voted against it twice, ladies and gentlemen, because for more than two hours, apart from lyrical, historical, ideological and factual demonstrations of political helplessness and inertness, I have heard nothing else. You showed a lack of any real assessment not only of the political situation, but also of commitment to the Bulgarian citizens. Again a demonstration of the language of hatred you spoke so much about. What's in it for you guys? Have you demonstrated that you are two forces in power with your strategic partner, or have you demonstrated once again the opposition's failure? Mrs. Ninova, sorry for you in personal capacity as Chairman, but congratulations to the ruling majority, to the Coalition, and to you, Mr. Chairman Mr. Glauchev. [[Applause from GERB and OP groups.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Are there any other negative votes? You are welcome to join the people's representative Nikolay Alexandrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I voted against it for several reasons. The first, BSP colleagues managed to get to the problems they described in the solution until the end. Only Mr. Popov and Mr. Boychev were the only ones who affected the functions described in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, namely the functions of the President. I voted against it because I cannot admit that we should really share in the same thing as you. The oath of each Member of the National Assembly at the first meeting:... in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people................................................................................. It does not divide us from different interests, but on the contrary. Mr. Tomov at the first meeting of the National Assembly said something very right: Mr. Zahari Stoyanov, at the inauguration of the first assembly, said: "My MPs are the purest of angels. And Mr. Tomov urged their heirs to think about who we are. In financial theory there is a very nice description that when a butcher sells something at a loss, he usually fails. When a politician does it, he gets picked. And if we're only doing this for the purpose of peeling off some other voice, the people are finally bankrupt, not bankrupt, the people are bankrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u197	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. [[Applause from GERB and OP groups.]] There is no third negative vote. Before announcing a break, honourable Members, special guests of the National Assembly today are children from the vocal group "Bon-Bon." On the occasion of International Children's Day they will perform popular children's songs. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to hear their musical performances at the Club of the National Assembly. Thirty-minute break. At 12:00, we move on. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u198	We continue with the next point, honourable Members: THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE ENERGY LAW. On behalf of a parliamentary group, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u199	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before presenting the topic of today's speech, I will allow myself to share with you that my statement had actually prepared it for yesterday, but somehow at the end of the day I was pleased that it did not happen yesterday, because the room was absolutely empty after BSP colleagues left, as if they had heard an evacuation signal. Since my subject is very important, it is of public importance and I would like to present it in a full room. Unfortunately, today's situation is similar to yesterday's. This morning, when I saw the hall full, I was glad. I was glad that all my colleagues here would hear my proposal because it concerns one of the nation's biggest problems. Unfortunately, today's parliamentary day, half of it, went into an empty political talk, into a show, and we seemed to be in some kind of show. Old habits are hard to eradicate, but still, as everyone says, we are no longer patient and we are losing patience for the fact that Parliament is not working effectively. What I would like to present to your attention and make a suggestion is a topic from the past week. It is related to the health and health status of the health system. Last week, we heard about a lot of events. In the event of a negative event concentration in the sector, the level of negative events in the sector is higher than the level of negative events in the sector, i.e. the level of We've heard about another beat-up paramedic in the emergency room. We heard the prosecutor's spokesperson who provided evidence of proven abuse of the purchase of expired medicines, expiration date and other types of abuse that damage the effective and correct treatment of the oncology patients. We heard from the Minister of Health. Petrov, who on the air of national television reported that most likely the hospital in Lovech is also at risk of closing because there are also found abuses of the management related to the waste of funds and poor management, which puts at risk and will most likely hinder the right access to the quality health care of those living in the area. Days earlier we heard about the hospital in Karlovo, where there was also a risk that a number of wards would close because 18 nurses made mass applications to leave because of extremely low remuneration and inability to meet even the basic existential needs of their families. We heard about purge and personnel changes in Pirogov. "Changes" or "changes" is perhaps the more accurate word. We have also heard and know about the problem at TELK, where hundreds of people are standing and waiting for their destiny, whether they will be defined as permanently disabled. It is no secret to any of us that public hospitals work in extremely difficult conditions. Hospitals and medical centers all over the country have the same problems. The problems are low pay, insufficient number of staff, ageing average age of the staff, as young people leave and seek their salvation outside the country, depreciated environment, depreciated equipment, lack of sufficient supplies for daily work. All this leads to a decline in patients in the system, leads to a decrease in the motivation of the staff, and hence a complete deteriorated service. I'm sure each of you was shocked to hear the news of the abuse in Sofia Oncology last week, but for most of us, this news has passed and we may have forgotten it. However, this must not happen. For people who are cancerous, this problem remains open. We must help them and I am here before you to propose something very unconventional, namely: in June, Parliament should work accelerated only for health reform. I suggest that we pay attention to the most important to the people and to the nation. It is their health and their access to quality health. I propose, if necessary, that we in the Health Committee gather each day, work on laws and legislative initiatives, so that we can offer them here for discussion and acceptance, and that people more quickly begin to feel secure and that doctors and medics throughout our country begin to feel that their work is worthy and is given into a decent environment and environment. What more news do we need to hear about the health of the nation in order to provoke ourselves? Health has hit rock bottom. Think about it, fellow Members, that behind the data released by the prosecution, there are living souls. These are people who are already having a hard time in their lives, and instead of helping them and giving them a hand instead of showing them their respect, she slaps them. Think of someone close to you oncology and now imagine that this person will not win the fight against cancer because he is being given expired medication, or even has no medication. This, dear colleagues, we must not tolerate it anymore because we know it. Once we know about the problem, it must be solved. We work here in the legislative body of the state. We are facing responsibility for the abuses and corruption in the system, which prevent the proper spending of hospital budgets. I'm asking you for a non-party treatment. Let us not now ask ourselves what my party's position will be on Nina Mitkova's proposal and how to vote. The position here, colleagues, is human. Vote like people. Support my proposal and let us start concentrating, flexible and fast to work and give our hand to the sick and to the healthy in Bulgaria as well. I invite you! We here in this erudite body should behave erudically and should bear the responsibility that we have assumed in front of our constituents. When we met them in our election campaigns, we promised them many things, and they stared at us with their own eyes and devoured our promises. Now it's time to work on their performance. We of the Volja Party put the health of the people as a national priority and do not want to close our eyes to the chaos in the country anymore. At the end of my speech I would like to congratulate the children in Bulgaria in June 1st. To wish them health and happiness, and we promise them that we will work in this direction to provide them with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u200	Thank you, dear Mrs. Mitkova. On behalf of a parliamentary group, the People's Representative Vesela Lecheva. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u201	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let us remember today on this day, June 1, that it is our duty to work for the future of our Bulgarian children. Let us not forget that everything we do in the National Assembly, which we vote as bills, policies, will remain not only in the history of the National Assembly, but will remain as an inheritance for the Bulgarian children. This day, when thousands of children will be greeted, a day on which many events will be organized - sports, cultural, musical, dance and other events - will be given away gifts, treats and cakes, we adults will declare that the most sacred, most valuable wealth of a country, these are the children. This holiday will be an occasion to recall once again the Geneva Convention on the Rights of the Child. The hungry child to be fed, the sick one to be treated, the underdeveloped one to be encouraged, the deluded children to be reasonable, the orphans and the abandoned ones to be helped and taken away, the child to be prepared to make a living. Today, at this feast of the National Assembly stands, we call for the most important answer to the question: have we done everything for the Bulgarian children? The facts say, not yet. The children of Bulgaria face the risk of social isolation, poverty and illiteracy. The relative share of poor Bulgarian children is 32% and these are 380 thousand Bulgarian children, 50% of Bulgarian children do not go on vacation, 43% do not sport, 33% of our children do not have a suitable place to study or where to write their homework, 35% of Bulgarians buy a book is impossible, 31% of Bulgarian children cannot afford a daily fruit or fresh vegetable. In Bulgaria there are not only poor but also uneducated children. Only in the 2015 academic year 2016 16,000. children have dropped out of the eighth grade of the education system. We have failed to ensure adequate healthcare for our children; only two examples are indicative. For the past ten years, statistics have not even been made on how many children died from drug use, the incidence of active tuberculosis among children up to 17 years of age is 14.4 per hundred thousand. This alarming statistic can go on for a long time because it is a reflection of everything we have not done for our children today. We, the MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and the Bulgarian children need our united and persistent efforts because they deserve a life other than the present dark reality. We appeal to the MPs from all parliamentary groups, to every Bulgarian politician, to support the introduction of the children's guarantee, which will guarantee the rights of children to adequate healthcare, education, affordable care for them and food. It is scandalous that there are children who go to bed hungry, children who cannot go to kindergarten and receive affordable health care. The Children's Guarantee means a European Fund as part of the European integrated plan for combating child poverty. Today, at the children's festival, we address the MPs from the ruling coalition. Show that you care about all the children of Bulgaria. When discussing the budget, when taking loans that will return our children, when giving Bulgaria's wealth to concessions, think not only about your children but about the Bulgarian children, about all the children of Bulgaria. Let us all show that not only on 1 June we remember our responsibility to the children and vote on the state budget 4% of the gross domestic product for their education, introduce a textbook on an subject and thus release the money from the family budget for healthy food, sport and culture of our children, direct the state's funds only to public and municipal schools and educational institutions, to ensure quality education for each child, regardless of the financial opportunities of his parents. Kids need our care every day of the year. They must be healthy, fed, dressed, able to play, play sports, do music, draw, dance. We must guarantee them quality education, provide them with a chance for development and work in Bulgaria. They are the most valuable capital of Bulgaria. Let us greet them and be worthy of them! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u202	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. On behalf of GERB's parliamentary group, the People's Representative Milena Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u203	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Honourable Grown Children, Happy Holiday! There is nothing more precious in this world, nothing more important than the purity, dreams and hopes of a child. What we colleagues of GERB's parliamentary group and the MPs of GERB wish for is not to politicize this day. Only twenty minutes ago in the Club of the People's Representative were guests at the invitation of the Committee on Education and Science vocal group. We talk a lot about the kids, but we weren't the ones who respected them, and they waited for us for over an hour. When we talk about children's policies, we need to realize that they are not done on June 1st. These are successive policies which need consensus and which must be implemented in the years successively by each ruling majority. What, though, do we witness? I can give many examples, especially when it comes to education. When you are in power, especially you, colleagues on the left, adopt programs, adopt strategies that then, when you need to become a law, you do not support. I will not recall the cases in which we have not paid enough attention as MPs of the children. I'm just gonna give you some facts. During the management of GERB we have built five new schools. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The first new school in Bulgaria since 1989 was built precisely during the management of GERB. The gyms were not renovated for years, for the first time such halls began to be built in the schools during the first term of the cabinet Borisov 1. This policy continued in the mandate of Borisov 2, this policy continues with the currently set aside over BGN 130 million for gyms, for the sport of children, so that they have more opportunities for their free time to be used in the best way. I will not set an example with the funds they have received and have not been received for years for extracurricular activities, the means of interest activities, because it is these activities that will increase the motivation of children to study. I will not give specific data on additional programs for working with children, which are experiencing difficulties in training. I can go on a lot, but what I would like to do is, from today, for example, because we are the first of June, receive support and mothers who have decided to return to work in advance and be able to take better care of their children accordingly. I can continue with these policies, but colleagues on the left, demagogy will not help us to make our children neither better nor motivate them to stay in Bulgaria. They will be motivated by the right policies, policies of successful education systems, policies of systems around the world that have adequate laws to respect children's rights. Here I will return to our first term, when all of them disagreed with the Law on the Child, and that is exactly what he was doing. He synchronized the rights of children in Bulgaria with all accepted world and European documents. We're not there yet, colleagues, in this House to discuss this law. I personally hope that, in this term, we will be able to do so because yes, our children need this, they need new rules, they need this not to talk about how children live in Finland, how children live in Denmark. Yeah, we all like the Finnish education system, don't we?! But when we get to the point where we bring these rules here and to Bulgaria to be competitive, to be educated, to be happy, because what is missing is the happiness of our children. Yesterday, for example, my colleagues and I attended a charity exhibition organized by the Holy Synod. What a child said there was: I changed schools and I am very happy now. I don't care about grades. It's important to be happy and enjoy going to school. This, honourable Members, must be achieved for our children here with the changes we make in laws, not seeking to satisfy one or another interests by introducing one textbook or many textbooks. No, we're not saving the families money with one textbook. On the contrary, this will be at the expense of families because one textbook restricts the choice of textbooks, restricts children's rights. Because children are not the same, dear colleagues. By the way, the son of your chairman of the parliamentary group and the party said so. Because children in a Sofia school and children in a village, where for example we have a large percentage of children from socially vulnerable groups, are not the same, have different needs. But they all have the right to have equal access to education that guarantees them a successful realization. With a universal textbook, colleagues, you can't do that. But this debate is yet to come. The many aids that will compensate for the differences will actually affect the budget of families. And they will be even more busy, and the children will be even more hurt. Again: this is a debate that is yet to come, but because it has been affected, there is no way that I should not report it. In the end, indeed, what I am calling you for is, when we adopt the laws in this House, to be guided not by party interests, not to turn children's rights, the education of children into party gum, or in any way to help ourselves regain our party image and commitment, but to really think about them, to be consistent in our decisions in the years, in the ideas, so that we really protect their interest. Happy Thanksgiving, once again, to all grown children!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u204	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Any other affidavits? I won't. Report of the Energy Commission on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Energy Act No 754-01-8, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev and a group of MPs. You have the floor to present the report, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill supplementing the Energy Act, No 754-01-8, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev and a group of MPs At its regular meeting held on 25 May 2017, the Energy Commission examined the Draft Supplement to the Energy Act, No 754-01-8, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Energy: Mr. Zhecho Stankov, Deputy Minister, and Mr. Nikolay Nalbantov, Director of the Directorate of Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development and Water Regulation Guests at the meeting were: Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Chairman, Mrs. Evgenia Haritonova, Member, Mrs. Rositsa Totkova, Secretary-General, Mr. Plamen Mladenovski, Director of the Directorate of Energy and Water Regulatory guests at the meeting. The bill was presented by Mr. Delyan Dobrev. The aim is to refine the provision that clearly and accurately defines the scope of its addressees, excluding the possibility of unjustified circumvention of the existing provision, which would result in additional costs for all end-users and non-bit consumers of electricity in the country. The Ministry of Energy, in the face of Deputy Minister Zhecho Stankov, supported such proposals a bill to supplement the Energy Act by expressing that the envisaged change creates an opportunity to avoid increasing the purchased amounts of electricity from cogeneration producers of heat and electricity using heat to produce plant agricultural production outside the specified criteria. The bill was also supported by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. In its opinion the KEWRC supports the introduction of such a criterion, which will specify the norm of art. 30, para. 4 of the RES and will create clarity in its application. The introduction is also motivated in terms of the norm content, as it currently defines clear prerequisites with regard to the rule, but not with regard to the exception thereof. After the presentation of the Bill and the opinions followed a debate in which the Chairman of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory Assoc. Ivan Ivanov said the regulator has learned about the case from the declaration of the four national representative employers' organizations. The declaration states that two companies create a small greenhouse and a small sponge in order to recognise 100% of the heat produced and to recognise a very large amount of electricity at a preferential price through the corresponding conversion factor, while enjoying a minimum part of the heat. In this way, a barrier is created so as not to abuse the provisions of the law. The MP Mr. Tasco Ermenkov proposed to consider raising the percentage of the use of heat, which gives the right to a preferential price for electricity up to 85%. According to Mr. Ermenkov 15% is an acceptable percentage for both technological and own costs. People's representative Mr. Ramadan Atalay expressed his opinion on the rates set in the Bill, saying that in order for the change to be beneficial to society, there should be an exact instrument that would indicate the percentage of highly efficient energy. The President of the Commission Mr. Delyan Dobrev pointed out that the Commission's concerns about energy and water regulation are that the current text does not specify any percentages. An attempt is made to prevent the cases in which this vague text is used in the Law to build a sponge shop or a greenhouse that uses 5% of the heat and claims 100% of the electricity at the preferential price. The MP Mr. Iskren Veselinov supported the proposed change in the Energy Act. Following the debates, the Energy Committee with 13 votes for.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u206	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. On behalf of the importers? I won't. I am opening the debate, honourable Members. You have the floor to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u207	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I didn't understand what his personal explanation was. Did he write these prices and data? Dear Mr. Dobrev, I never understood how the protocol was led. There were other suggestions and other remarks that were not mentioned. There were discussions. I had another suggestion. For me, the proposed Law is a formal solution to the matter. It won't solve it qualitatively, but it will put us in an embarrassing position to explain why it's 70% or 80% when asked, but we won't be able to answer because round figures don't mean argumentation. When there are round figures, there are no readings. My proposal was joined by other colleagues in the Energy Committee in the same direction. We do not approve of the Commission's proposal that it is necessary to ensure the inability to use the shortcomings of the Law in order to benefit from preferences from electricity production in the quantity of heat needed to be spent. My suggestion was not to work with numbers because they could not be explained. The spirit of the Law provides preferences for those who produce and spend heat on vegetable production. The law must indicate and indicate that preferential electricity prices will only relate to the percentage of electricity produced, which corresponds to the percentage of heat used for the production of vegetable products. It can be 7, 10, 20, 37% - it does not matter, but as much as heat is used for the production of vegetable products, such a percentage of electricity will benefit from the preference for an additional price for electricity. The rest goes to the free market. In this situation, we do not restrict producers to produce only vegetable products in order to obtain preferences for electricity, but give them the opportunity to diversify their own production. The production of vegetables may take 10% of the heat and the rest will be for another production, for which they have decided that it is useful and have a market for it. In two years, they may decide that the production of vegetables is profitable, then increase the capacity of the greenhouses. This means an increase in heat consumption, respectively an increase in the amount of electricity that will have preferences. Thus, no one will have the opportunity to explain that they are discriminated against or forced to produce what they do not want and that some issues are being resolved with companies that are being negatively affected or are being given incentives for other companies. That was the offer. We'll bring it in between first and second readings. This isn't about nagging. This is about changing the Law, which is not necessary after 2-3 years to be amended again. To be clear the text, to be clear settled prices only for electricity corresponding to the percentage of heat used for lenchukura production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u208	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Genov, in principle, the Energy Act is not a law to promote other proceedings, but there are such laws as the Renewable Energy Act, which gives instructions on how to give preferential prices to encourage production from renewable sources. The same applies to high-tech production, which is part of the directives - Directive 72 of 2009 and so on. The question is this. In the previous National Assembly, we decided to help vegetable producers and people who grow by this method by heating through cogeneration to produce this heat to help vegetable production. The offer you're making is good, but I think things are turning around. We are not helping vegetable producers here, but we are helping all producers of electricity, which, by building such vegetable production, can help their finances to go out on the free market. Things are quite turning around, that is, we are not helping vegetable producers, and those to whom we have tried to take the unregulated high incomes, the millions they have been taking from NEK for years, and now, based on the amendment of the Energy Act, are being assisted in this way in order to go out on the free market, to be able to exist and parasitize. The question is turning around. The question is, if we are going to assist, let us assist people who are watching vegetables in this way. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u210	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u211	Dear Mr. Nikolov, I heard that line in the Energy Commission. The Energy Act is written in art. 30, para. 4:.................................................................................. I am not saying that the Energy Commission is the Committee on Agriculture. It's written in the Energy Act and we're talking about it. I don't want to defend or blame some people who built something and made money from it earlier. I'm talking about this Law to be implemented properly. In no way do I propose to protect one producer at the expense of another. The law must be precise. The heat used for production may be 100%, but only the heat used for the production of vegetables and the equivalent amount of electricity shall be paid at preferential prices. That's what I want, not putting imaginary numbers that we can't explain. Behind each digit must be the cost of heat for the produced vegetable production. This should be controlled in both cases. And to be clear: 7% heat for vegetables, 7% electricity at preferential prices. What's crazy about that, and who am I protecting like that? What bandits? I don't know how you see those who made money out of some opportunities that the Law gave them?! I don't comment on other laws. I comment on this clause in this Law, which must be correct. 70% or 80% of the total is not a correct figure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u212	Thank you, Mr. Genov. The people's representative Ramadan Atalay has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations on your new term! Honourable Members, we are dealing with a very serious energy problem. I regret that the amendment and the supplement of the Energy Act takes place in the first days of each next National Assembly, because this problem could be addressed in the previous National Assembly. The idea is to make sure that the National Electricity Company or the energy system is stable and not drained. There is no political power that does not support such an idea. And the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is what we're about. The recent amendments we made here with Mr. Dobrev and the left-hand side were in this direction. I want to tell you right now that the idea you are currently proposing is not balanced. There is no, like the colleague before me, to say who is the author of this idea of a balanced approach, but what we proposed to you during the Commission meeting and then the conversation I had with the Chairman of the Commission on Energy and Water Regulatory leads me to the idea that the dispute between Mr. Genov and Mr. Nikolov is unnecessary at the moment, because for the highly efficient electricity as such we have preferential prices that need to be paid nothing more. Why, GERB, are you opposed to agricultural production using heat from high-efficiency electricity production? Well, then why are we heating up with high-performance electric power sophians and all those who use heat from heat supply? Then do we not support cross-subsidisation to residents who use central heating? Colleagues, the idea we are proposing is this: we are against those who want to drain the National Electricity Company without producing plant production, and so far we are stopping. However, those using heat to produce.. whether it is 5%, or 20%, or 30% of the heat produced, the reciprocal electricity that they will produce, for this 20% heat, by placing the appliance in question, we want this part to be paid to the producers. Nothing more. What you are proposing right now, looking at the ceiling of 80% of the energy produced is not balanced. This means that somewhere, I don't want to use the word "who's the lobbyist," who, where did he catch the thief, because I'm sure you noticed something somewhere and in your quest to destroy the one who wants to steal, you will stop the whole chain from supporting the production of highly efficient electricity. For short, colleagues, we will not be able to support you at first reading, but at second reading, if we find that approach to find the balance between paying high-performance electricity and using that heat that is used to produce production to pay at preferential prices, we will have achieved the objective of amending the Law. Actions currently under way in connection with certain laws adopted. It is a good thing that the Constitutional Court annulled certain decisions and some photovoltaics failed to convict the state. Looking at the big producers, God forbid someday they should condemn Bulgaria. It will turn out that with the laws we adopt, we have created such a situation that the National Electricity Company or Energy further with interest must pay certain amounts. This is our proposal, colleagues. I think it is constructive and I think that both Mr. Dobrev and Mr. Nikolov will accept and explain to GERB what this is about and we will accept it at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u214	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I cannot support this bill because, essentially, a bill is being made to address problems in some public areas, in the case of energy. In the report itself, which the rapporteur presented, said it was practically about several enterprises. At the same time, however, there are a number of huge problems in energy, because the losses in renewable energy from the thermal plants are in times more. However, nothing is being done to solve this problem. It starts again with the smallest, because one of the businesses that we are talking about is Vidahim. He is practically the only employer in Vidin district. In the previous term, the previous National Assembly, in the previous cabinet of Mr. Borisov came the Minister of Energy in Vidin after the Law you adopted and practically about 400 people remained on the street. This is the last Bulgarian enterprise, which gives albeit on a limited scale, but still produces Bulgarian tires. The only one in Bulgaria, the only one! Why should it be started by the most defenseless, by the smallest? Yes, the problem is principled, there should be a solution, but there should be a solution for all. Not for one, two, three or five enterprises, because the losses of NEK by Vidahim are about 2-3 million BGN. What are we talking about the RES losses? What is the matter with the thermal plants, the Maritsa, why there are no measures and decisions taken there? Nothing, nothing so far! It starts again with the youngest to demonstrate some work in the fight against such phenomena. One law, again, is a law to settle all public relations in principle, not a patch to patch. That's why I can't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u216	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u217	Mr. Popov, you surprised me. I didn't expect you to speak on the topic of energy. However, I am in a hurry to tell you that this is not at all about the smallest we are dealing with. This was one of the biggest we started two years ago, because only the amount for Visahim is 50 million. lv. To remind you of the debate two years ago, 50 million. lv. from current to.Vidahim, against which 50 million. lv. It produces 1 million-dollar tires. Do you remember the reports? In the last two years because of the reform we made back then, we saved that money. This allowed the regulator to set prices that did not shock society with an increase in two-digit rates. These reforms have allowed. The National Assembly endured and had a constructive debate, we were united from the left, and from the right around that reform had to be made. I remind you, we cut costs by 400 million, increased revenue by 400 million, and closed an annual energy deficit of 800 million. lv. Those 50 million you're talking about, the tiniest one you've ever seen, were part of the reforms we've made. For two years we have held back and now what I observe from the left and from the BSP and from the DPS, they draw all sorts of arguments so that we can reverse the reform and give some money to two TPPs again. We are talking about the TPP - Vidahim - and the TPP - Svishtov. Colleagues, I say to you in a straight text: you can reject this proposal with whatever motives you want, because you have no real arguments. These two TPPs refer to the fact that the Law was not clear enough. One says: I will make a sponge, the other says: I will make a greenhouse to produce tomatoes and mushrooms for 100-200 thousand BGN, however to take 30 million. lv. on application. 30 million leva the two power plants on request to the KEWRC! These. 30 million. lv. it has not been accounted for and if you make the bill fall today in plenary, that 30 million. lv. They'll be on your conscience. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u218	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Popov, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. NEK's losses from.Visahim are of the order of 2-3 million a year.................................................................................................. Let me ask you, however, how much are the losses of Sofia's Toplofication from the Maritsa? How many million are there? A lot over 50 million? Why aren't you doing anything there? Why? Why aren't you doing anything there?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u220	How could we not?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u221	Now you've decided to amend the Law, to amend it the same one you accepted. Welcome to Vidin, colleague Dobrev, explain to the citizens and workers why you are doing it with Vidin. Explain to them. Why are you making amendments to the Bill for two businesses only?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u222	It was done two years ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u223	Let's make amendments to the Law, but so that it covers all the losses, not to towel the sack of energy here and there, but to change the concept at all. The concept should be changed for energy losses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u224	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. [[The National Representative Delyan Dobrev wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] You're making a line and a backdrop, so what kind of personal explanation is that? National Representative Tasco Ermenkov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u225	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Just a little story about what we're arguing about right now. First, I would like to stress that the parliamentary group of the then BSP Coalition for Bulgaria and now BSP for Bulgaria and in all its formats as a parliamentary group has always defended the country's electricity security, including attempts to normalise the relations between the relevant parts of the electricity market. Moreover, you know that we have supported and have always voted when the national interest and interests of the sector are required, regardless of who made the proposals in this area. A little far-fetched comes the charges of any lobbying on your part. There is no such person, you can be sure of that. There may be social sensitivity, but lobbying will never be found with us. [[GERB lines.]] I don't understand, but after that, if you have a line to make, make it out of the stands, it's not polite from a place to do it. I'd like to draw your attention to something else. You remember the original text of this article. 30, para. 4 stopped next to the heat energy of domestic customers. Isn't that right? No preferential income prices are paid for three years of 5 million. BGN, with revenue from the sale of electricity, which exceeds 35% of their total annual revenues, unless these producers carry out the transport and supply of heat to domestic customers. I personally made the proposal then that it be continued with the heat produced for the production of plant agricultural production. The idea was also what was explained at the time and the Commission accepted it, and the Parliament accepted this proposal that vegetable production uses what is called high-efficiency cogeneration to produce heat. Very few of the electricity produced goes for its own needs and is sold on the market. Given the price of vegetable production and electricity, so that we can stimulate high-efficiency cogeneration and stimulate the sector of The idea was that the text This is the purpose of the high-performance energy heat to be used at 100% or the percentage of heat used to correspond to the percentage of electricity sold at preferential prices. This is where our doubts begin. I'm serious. I believe that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is currently trying to wash its hands with us because the text is explicitly written, there is no doubt: if someone wants to receive more money than what is normal and more money from electricity produced on a combined cycle without the heat being used useful, there are every reason to deny it. It is not Parliament's job to introduce percentages, because you remember that case with chickens and cattle as a unit of electricity production, which we also put into the Renewable Energy Act then. Here I fully agree with my colleague Popov that a law should regulate public relations as a whole and not be an exception to making a law for Svishtov, to make a law for Svishtov. I'll ask you my next question. Colleagues, I want you to answer me logically if you can: if we now introduce a percentage of the heat produced for the production of plant agricultural production, whatever it may be, no matter what it will be, does this mean that tomorrow, if any of these thermal plants decide to join and transfer heat to one consumer, we will make changes to the Law and we will write............................. unless these producers carry heat supply to domestic customers no less than 100................................. Colleagues, look, our parliamentary group will refrain from adopting the text in this form. We really want this issue to be resolved in principle. This issue should be resolved so that it does not cause further doubts, disputes, and misunderstandings. Colleagues, if you open the Energy Act, you will see from above the path it has been amended. If we do it in a normal font and put it on one page, maybe half of this Law will be with the dates when it is adopted, amended, supplemented, extended, amended, amended and so on. Perhaps it is time for a new Energy Act to try to resolve the issue properly, but this is already a topic that does not affect our current debate. I am convinced that this Law you will accept it at full reading, but I implore you to show reason between first and second reading, so that we do not enter into hypotheses which tomorrow will prove that 70% or my 85%, which I have proposed, will not correspond to what we do and instead of closing a door, we open it wider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u226	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u227	Dear colleagues, I will explain once again why this change is needed, because some of my colleagues Mr. Philip Popov is normal, he does not participate in the Energy Commission, he has not worked on this legislation, we are not doing anything new. What we did to limit the abuse and draining of NEK, we did it two years ago. However, there are now some TPPs that have noticed uncertainty in the Law, according to the regulator, and are trying after not working for two years, have not received this money in both years, to pierce themselves with future plans for making a sponge shop, a greenhouse, to drain again 30 million from NEC. That's what this is about. We stopped them two years ago. Two years they haven't drained NEK, and now they're asking how they want to drain NEK again with 30 million, with the intention of building a sponge shop and a greenhouse. I could go into details of how much tomatoes and mushrooms would cost if we paid $30 million for electricity. Surely this calculation will not be in your favor, so I will not do it. Mr. Ermenkov in his speech was most correct to the case because he gave a retrospect about what happened over the years. The Energy Act was amended twice in 2015 and 2016 and thanks to the changes in the Law, I repeat, we have contracted a tariff deficit of 800 million. lv. The NEK lost 800 million because of the imbalances in energy. These 800 million deficits have disappeared in the first three months of this year, as well as in the entire last year, the profit of the operation last year is 31 million, i.e. there is a surplus of 31 million, and the first three months of this year again show a tariff surplus of over 10 million. lv. Thanks to the reforms we have made. I find it extremely uncomfortable to hear in this Chamber that, instead of congratulating ourselves on the fact that both from the left and the right, and from the central part of the Chamber, on one law, on one subject in this country, we have been constructive for the last two years and we have done the work, we have solved the problem, we have not burdened the society, we have not loaded the business, but I am extremely uncomfortable at the moment to hear arguments about how we can again make the text so that these companies can be pierced, whether it is with arguments that we only pay high-efficiency production and will control, we will put measuring instruments and they will not be able to lie to the state. They make one greenhouse, put all the heat under one end of the greenhouse, open the doors from the other end of the greenhouse and quite calmly manipulate the appliances, and all the other scams will see how 100 megawatts of electricity instead of satisfying with one megawatt of heat this greenhouse will satisfy it with 100 megawatts and all of a sudden all 30 million will pay them. Why should we afford it, why should we make texts in the Law that allow such deceptions? I'll turn to Mr. Ermenkov again. You said yourself that this vegetable production was an exception. I was not even present at the time of the Commission, but I was a business trip abroad, but in the Energy Commission at second reading last year you accepted an addition, saying that we are making an exception except for the heating, we are making exceptions for vegetable production in Bulgaria. The energy, in a way, to help vegetable production. That was your insistence. And on your proposal, it was on your proposal that these activities were also financed, wasn't it? If you want us not to deal with percentages, I suggest we just shut down the vegetable production and stay just the heat feeds. In this case, we will not argue whether it is 70%, 80%, whether it is highly efficient cogeneration or any other criteria, but again I will oppose any texts that will enable the energy in Bulgaria to be drained again. I will remind you once again of the time when we did not make the reform together, thanks to all of us who are from this room, from both left and right, and from the centre of the hall, took 50 million. lv. from electricity and a million leva of tires. In order to produce a million leva tires, the state gave 50 million. lv. for electricity. The same is the case with TPP Svishtov. And by the way, it's not Svizozsia. They've been separated for 15 years. Sviszola with TPP Svishtov has nothing to do with it. This is for the record and to be more correct. So if you'd like, Mr. Popov said we'd start with the youngest we've ever hooked up with the 50 million, not something else. Four hundred million cutbacks, 50 million is one of those scams, the other 350 million are from the US power plants and the RES. You know, we cut from everyone then, from anyone who could. We created an energy security fund to which we transferred 400 million dollars in revenue. lv. That's how we managed to balance the system. Why are we trying to debalance her now? Okay, we're gonna come up with a text that's not gonna work, it's gonna get abused, and so on, it's gonna be 30 million. Where is the guarantee that we will not repeat this exercise in one month for someone else, then for someone else, then for a third, then for a fifth, until we find ourselves a situation where energy is once again in a deficit of 500 million, for example? Right, that's how we start with 30 million to start, and you never know where we're gonna get to. You have also heard in the Committee on Energy and the Ministry of Energy and the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission supported the text and told them that the text is necessary. You are right that our vision is two years ago and the text is already clear enough. It's called: all the heat produced. According to the regulator, however, it is not said the entire one and it really is not the word the whole one, it is said the heat energy is, that is, it can be accepted or the regulator accepts that it is the whole one. Dismisses the claims of 30 million, however, then companies that are dissatisfied with this decision file a complaint with the court, and the court tells me that it is called the heat, but it is not called the whole company, it may be one percent or two percent. That is, the court is ruling in favour of the companies that mourn and we have to pay 30 million. That's why we're doing this so there's no risk after the regulator rejects the claims of the $30 million, someone sues us and we have to pay the $30 million. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u228	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. - What's the line? Mr. Atalay, Mr. Popov, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Dobrev, I cannot agree with your arguments. I've been tracking her for 40 years. There was a time when heat efficiency produced only heat and we imposed by laws to start producing electricity and to pay them highly efficient. Your doubt at the moment, which you are expressing from this platform, is almost that we are lobbyists, DPS and BSP, I do not want to say that if these people did not pay you during the elections and you are currently trying to screw them up. Not at all, I don't intend to. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Not at all! However, I ask you, then, if at the end of the greenhouse it turns on steam and wants the price for high-performance electricity, can't it turn on its steam at the end of the pipe and demand high-performance electricity? Then let's do this, let's offer heat efficiency, electricity, brown energy will not be highly efficient, and Sofians and Plovdivs will pay for their heat. Then, however, your voters will be greatly reduced. Currently, the ordinary, smallest farmer does not use the preferential heat prices in Sofia to heat up. From this point of view, we offer you the balance, and you come up with the doubt that we are lobbyists and the elections have passed. I said from the beginning BSP, DPS and GERB adopted the amendments to the Law, where we made the National Electricity Company shrink its costs. If you want, let's keep going. We won't pay the heat supply, the National Power Company will still cut its costs. However, if you want the balanced approach that we offer you, do not blame us for asking for a progressive and balanced proposal, and you are, because it is not yours, you do not want to accept it. You're wrong. We work well enough in the Commission, I respect your efforts with Mr. Nikolov to please your group, but you are wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u230	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Second line.. the People's Representative Tasco Ermenkov, third "The People's Representative Ivan Genov."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u231	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dobrev, if we are going to exclude from the Law, so to speak, to erase vegetable production, let's erase the transfer of heat and so on. That's not what this is about. It's not about opening a door. On the contrary, it is about regulating things so that there is no possibility that this door will open in another way tomorrow, looking for options to circumvent the Law. Never and in no way are they being done at the moment, or at least from my point of view, things that should lead to the debalance of the system. Here and Mr. Ramadan Atalay said that as an Energy Commission we have always sought to solve matters professionally. And that's what I'm going to try to ask you to do now. Because I'm saying, again, whatever percentage we're going to enter, is there any objective criterion for this percentage? Why 70, why I have 80, for example, someone else's 85, and someone will say 90, and someone else will say 30. The percentage can't be a criterion, understand me. So let's write down: which use all the heat produced. Let's write this thing down and then let's move on. The other thing I'm going to tell you in this situation, if you tell me someone's going to blow up the power plant and let everything down, and the other side is going to open the door, well, he's 80% and 70 can do it. He doesn't have to do it with just 100. I don't really agree with what you did as a line. Think better about how to objectively limit not being able to subjective interpretation and things to really be so as to close any loopholes for the use of high-performance production not for the purposes for which it is made. You know what the targets are. On the one hand, this is an increase in energy security by reducing natural gas consumption, because with one combustion cycle you produce two types of energy. I'm saying this about other colleagues, not you, you know that very well. This is a way to reduce the energy dependence of the state, as less gas produces more energy. Many things are related to this cogeneration, but we need to take those measures that lead to it being really highly efficient and combined, that is, only when heat is used for useful purposes and not somewhere to be hidden or something else to be masked. I'm sorry I overreacted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u232	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. The third line is the People's Representative Ivan Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u233	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Dobrev! I think I speak English. No one here speaks Chinese, Japanese. What in my words gives you reason to believe that I suggest someone spend 200 kilos of heat on vegetable production and get 30 million. lv. from the state for electricity? What in my words gave you such a reason? There's no reason for that. Two hundred kilos of heat for vegetables, 200 kilos at preferential prices. Where's the $30 million, where's the $50 million? It's just that the proposal is to be clear and precise, not to have the percentages that someone is hiding behind. The proposal, the line you made in the Energy Commission, well, that's ridiculous. Someone was going to make a greenhouse, open it all up, leak out the heat and prove heat. What about putting 80% on the guarantee that that won't happen? The guarantee is when there is control when we control that heat is used for the production of vegetables heat, how much heat and how much vegetables are produced. Indeed, if you want to remove these vegetables, but when we make a law, it should be correct, not with numbers invented from the ceiling.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u234	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Personal explanation by MP Philip Popov. [[The People's Representative Delyan Dobrev wants the floor for the doppelganger.]] Sorry, butt first, Mr. Popov. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u235	Dear colleagues, I wouldn't mind both dropping out of the service, I have already told you, and recording all the heat. If you want, between first and second readings instead of These 70%, if you say so, will be 80, 85 or 90, what a constructive proposal Mr Ermenkov made during the Commission. The percentage itself was proposed by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission because there are several such greenhouses in Bulgaria, which are first greenhouses, and to the greenhouses they have built a plant to supply them with heat and have so to say excess electricity. The principle and abuse we are trying to prevent is that someone has a plant and wants to make a greenhouse at this plant so that excess heat can move into the greenhouse. In this case, Mr. Nikolov, in his speech, was quite right, saying: "We are not now trying to help those who produce vegetables, as in the normal case, you are building a greenhouse, next to it you are building some kind of power plant to heat it up, but we are trying to help those who have a plant and to give them the opportunity to build a greenhouse to help power generators with the high price of electricity. This is the essence of the question: whether we allow a loophole in the Law or some dual treatment, ambiguity, possible legal claims and risk of increasing the costs of the National Electricity Company, I told you by 30 million. lv. That's 30 million. BGN, Mr. Genov, are from the applications of two companies. Those two companies, TPP, Svishtov and Vidahim, requested the regulator 30 million. lv. That's why I'm telling you 30 million. BGN, not 2-3, as Mr. Popov says. Thirty million BGN per application is the price they have requested for the high-efficiency cogeneration of electricity. To make it clear to everyone in this Chamber, because as Mr. Ermenkov said: "Not everyone is in the Energy Committee, they represent a lev on the obligation to society. The obligation to society, which is currently thirty-something leva, must be increased by one lev from the top of those eighteen pennies, which the regulator has already foreseen to compensate for in order to collect the 30 million. lv. Colleagues, that's what this is about. Those are the facts. The decision is in plenary. I suggest we adopt the Bill again at first reading, I don't blame anyone. Once again, I would like to say because Mr. Atalay thought that I have accused someone in lobbying several times. I'm just saying what the risks are and what is expected of us. So to support the Bill at first reading, and between first and second reading we will look at the proposals and support the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u236	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Personal explanation by MP Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My reason for asking for a personal explanation is Mr. Dobrev's statement, who was surprised to hear that I was speaking on the topic of energy, almost incompetent. I'm answering you specifically, but I didn't want to get into those specifics. The speculation that for 50 million, as you said, then reduced to 30, which is worth the work of the plant, is costs that reflect the cost of responsibilities to society. This statement, however, is absolutely false, as the elementary account that anyone could make, of course, you, as a person dealing with this matter, is multiplying the declared average annual production of 160 thousand. 310 megawatt hour with the last established price of Vidahim. of 134,08 BGN. in the megawatt hour or this is a total of BGN 21 494. It is false that this amount is automatically reflected in the price of the obligation to society as you claim, since there is no electricity producer in Bulgaria to present free energy to NEK, and its cost to someone else to pay for it. In this order of calculations, if we apply all the rules for the formation of electricity in Bulgaria, we will find that the price that every Bulgarian consumer will pay for a secure supply of Bulgarian energy amounts to 0.002 BGN. in kilowatt hours or in total for one year this makes about BGN 0.59. - 59 pennies, with an average annual consumption of 2400 kilowatt hours. On an annual account of a household of BGN 528. This is precisely 59 C.E. For comparison, in the difficult winter months, if we did a new calculation, how much would it cost a household for the lack of electricity [[the President signals that time has run out]] In the autumn-winter period, the minimum amount that each user should pay in one year is about 1 BGN. or nearly twice as much if the factory plants could be relied on. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. It's the simple bill, that's what I'm talking about. That's not speculation at all. Specula comes from your side, Mr. Dobrev. I call on all MPs from the Vidin region to unite because these are the facts and to vote as they see fit, but not to support this type of bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u238	Here you go, Mr. Velchev. Before that, there are declarations on behalf of the United patriots' Parliamentary Group. [[National Representative Krasimir Velchev wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u239	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I didn't understand what the personal explanation from the unspeakable one was. Did he write these prices and data and want to be explained in person? Follow the rules! When a personal explanation is said, say exactly what it is affected by. It's the rule of law! Since the Forty-first National Assembly, I have insisted that a conflict of interest be declared when spoken by this tribune. What do I mean? It is very interesting that when you talk about energy production, there are people here who are very active. When we talked about RES in the Forty-First National Assembly, the same people defended the same interests, and then they forgot that they were being protected. They subsequently tried to make it clear that GERB was guilty of increasing the price of electricity. Therefore, I insist that, when spoken of by this tribune about such issues, everyone should declare whether he or his related persons has anything to do with electricity producers and specifically the RES, because as Mr. Dobrev said just now, this is precisely about protecting the interests of electricity cogeneration producers. Therefore, I ask you very much, when you go out, not to tell me that I do not have a water power station, but that there are persons connected with it and he himself, with electricity producers. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u240	Such an obligation is not only to declare each Member of the National Assembly on this issue when there is a conflict of interest. People's representative Philip Popov said he was affected because he felt a hint of incompetence. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, we have asked for the floor on behalf of the United Patriarchs on the occasion of the attack on a Bulgarian municipal councillor in Ukraine, which we, the United Patriarchs, strongly condemn and want the Bulgarian state and Bulgarian institutions to intervene strongly and to protect the Bulgarian minority in Ukraine. This is not the first time the Bulgarian minority in Ukraine has been subjected to terror by far right-wing representatives in Ukrainian politics. We insist on the Bulgarian Embassy in Ukraine, the Foreign Ministry, and we propose to the parliamentary groups in the Bulgarian Parliament clearly and strongly to condemn this attack on Vassily Kashti so that the Bulgarian state can protect the representatives of the Bulgarian community in Ukraine. I can recall that they're between half a million and 800 thousand. Souls at different stats. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen that certain forces are trying to involve the Bulgarian community in Ukraine into internal or external conflicts of Ukraine and the Bulgarian minority to be the scapegoat of these problems. We, as Bulgarian politicians and the Bulgarian state, should clearly and categorically state that the Bulgarian minority in Ukraine can rely on the support of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian parliament. We as politicians should not allow representatives of the Bulgarian community anywhere in the world to be attacked, beaten, harassed and offended for being Bulgarians and for having the appropriate position! I would like to recall another case of the violation of a Bulgarian monument in Bolgrad on the eve of March 3rd, namely the monument of the Bulgarian militias, where precisely such finite elements again showed that they do not want representatives of the Bulgarian minority and to live there on the territory of Ukraine. The inscriptions urged the Bulgarians from Ukraine to pick up their luggage and go to Bulgaria. It is time to propose a way in which Bulgarian minorities in Ukraine and in other countries to be protected. It is time for the Bulgarian state to show that it cannot agree with such treatment of Bulgarians abroad. Therefore, once again, I call on all the parliamentary groups on whether, in the form of a declaration to the media, to condemn this case and to stand behind the Bulgarian minority in Ukraine. I thank my colleagues from GERB, who yesterday in the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad offered to request all information from our institutions in order to get acquainted specifically with all cases of attack on Bulgarians or insulting Bulgarian monuments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u242	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Are there any other statements on the bill we discussed? I won't. I close the debates and put to the first vote the Draft Law on Supplement to the Energy Act, No 754-01-8, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev and a group of MPs on 18 May 2017. Vote 157 MPs: 91, against 6, abstention 60. The bill was passed in the first vote. Let's move on to the next point: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION FOR ENERGY AND WATER REGULATION 2016 There is a report from the Energy Commission that will be presented to you by the Vice-President of the Energy Commission Mr. Valentin Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I'm doing a procedure for admission. I propose to allow Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Mrs. Evgenia Haritonova, Mrs. Svetla Ivanova, Mr. Remzi Osman, Mr. Vladko Vladimirov, Mr. Alexander Yordanov, Mr. Dimitar Kochkov, Mr. Valentin Petkov and Mr. Georgi Zlatev all commissioners from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u244	Please vote on the proposal made. They voted 105 MPs: for 100, against 5, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Invite the persons to the plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u245	♪ I can't believe for the activities of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for 2016, No 720-00-1, submitted on 24 April 2017 At its regular meeting held on 25 May 2017, the Energy Commission examined the Commission's Energy and Water Regulatory Report for 2016, No 720 00-1 of 24 April 2017. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission: Mr. Ivan Ivanov Chairman, Mrs. Evgenia Haritonova Member, Mrs. Rositsa Totkova Secretary-General, Mr. Plamen Mladenovski Director of the Department of Electrics and Heats, Mrs. Elena Marinova Director of Legal Department, Mr. Ivaylo Kaschiev Director of the Department of Vikik. The report on the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in implementation of art. 20, para. 4 of the Energy Act was presented by Mr. Ivan Ivanov. The report shall monitor the Commission's activities and the main tasks decided by the Commission in 2016. An extremely important task, which the Commission has decided for a second year in a row, is the financial stabilisation of the electricity sector. In 2015, the National Electricity Company was in a difficult financial situation with a current tariff deficit of 586 million. lv. The changes in the Energy Act and after the price decisions that the KEWRC adopted within the two years reached a situation of operating profit from current collections of the relevant tariffs. The third important task was the Commission's action in the continuation and acceleration of the process of liberalisation of the energy market, as well as of the gas market, although it is in the backward phase. With regard to this liberalisation, as early as the second half of 2015, the Commission adopted the Rules on Electricity Trading, substantially changed since 5 August 2015. The result is the establishment of the Bulgarian Independent Energy Exchange, which started operating on 19 January 2016 in its first segment. In the middle of the year, the second segment for the conclusion of bilateral contracts was activated through a trading platform and is expected at the end of 2017, at the latest beginning of 2018, to be functional and the third segment for the trading of electricity within the day. The two segments will enable the Bulgarian Energy Exchange, as well as the Bulgarian energy system operator to participate in the regional network and regional trade of electricity. In addition to the functioning of the Exchange, an important element for the liberalisation of the electricity market is the fact that, through the rules of trade at the end of March 2016, the three companies via EVN and In the past year around 1000 domestic and 85360 non-domestic consumers came to the free market. The Commission has established an instruction to replace the electricity supplier, an important act which allows for a very simplified procedure by direct application in the company or by a notarized power of attorney for each household consumer to enter the free market, something which in a small number of European countries has been signed. That is, if, after the change of supplier, the consumer is found to be deceiving in its expectations due to poor conditions on the part of the new supplier, he is entitled, without any financial penalty, to return to the regulated market and without financial commitments, to the regulated market. In the field of natural gas, practically the entire regulatory framework has been introduced and the regulatory base for liberalisation of the gas market has been prepared, including in the form of an unused regional reserve capacity platform used in the exchange with the Romanian gas operator. Two important regulations apply in the water sector, one for regulating drinking water prices and the other for the quality of regulation of drinking water. All water operators in the country were obliged by 30 June last year to present their business plans and there are several water operators whose business plans were adopted by the Commission and accordingly established prices of water services. Guidelines were adopted by the Commission which were given to the water operators and dialogue was carried out with those operators who did not comply with those guidelines. The next thing that is important for the regulator is interaction with end users. Following certain structural changes in its administration, the Commission is much shorter and much more involved in dealing with consumer complaints and ruling on them. And another work by the Commission, which cannot be passed, is the international activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. In 2016, Commissioners from the KEWRC took part in the meetings, respectively, then informed the Commission of decisions adopted and continued contact with the other regulators in the European Union. Following the debates held, the Energy Commission with 16 votes for the 2016 Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and expressed the following opinion: proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a report on the Commission's activities for energy and water regulation for 2016 No 720.1 of 24.04.2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u246	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. From the importers? I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u247	Dear Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission! Mr. Chairman of this Commission. Given the advanced weather and the fact that we have committees waiting for us, I will try to be as brief as possible. Firstly, I would like to say that we, as the National Assembly, continue to be obliged to the Committee on Energy and Water Regulatory, bearing in mind that we are constantly and with some amendments and additions to the Law expanding the functions, but we do not budgetly guarantee them quite normal. Yes, this year we have increased the Commission's budget a little bit, but it still seems to me that when we have a Commission that regulates such important public relations, it should be better financially, framed, logistically secured so that it can do its job qualified. Perhaps this is one of the reasons why I will mention several of the shortcomings that I see in this report, so that it can, however,, as is said to be an effort to improve the activity. I may not be right, of course, this will become clear afterwards from the speech of the President of the Commission. The first thing I keep saying for several years is that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in most cases appears to be a registrar of events, unfortunately, including things that concern its activities and which it should be the originator to change through us. MPs in the laws somehow feel a little shy and shy to do so, after which some events occur, justify that the Law does not allow them to do this work. So I advise them in my next year and the actions they are doing, to have a little more initiative and to fight more for their rights, because otherwise these shortcomings will continue. I am also saying another thing - sometimes the Commission gives a little bit more to the conjuncture than to objective circumstances. An example is at the end of last year with the price of gas, which had hardly moved, despite the demand increase, knowing that this price is about to rise and a sharp jump that occurred in February by 30%. Somehow in two months, it's hard to imagine that there have been such changes in the conjuncture that want such a sharp leap. There has been an impression, I hope it is only an impression, of such compliance with the Commission's decisions with the electoral situation in the country. I'm sure you'll oppose me, but I'm telling you what an impression this has created. Nowhere in the Report, and I don't see it now in yesterday's work report, which came out of the working group, about the prices you are taking, I don't see anywhere, and I didn't hear an estimate of how the incorrect forecasting of carbon prices is affecting pricing and what it has led to and what the regulator's policy to compensate for these differences is, because you know that last year some emission prices were set, they were practically twice lower, which led to an impoverishment in the Electricity Security Fund. The same thing applies to whether they are in control, whether they are in power and whether it should not be in terms of which of the debtors pay 5% in the Fund, because I have information that not all have paid the five percent that are inside. This also leads to a shortage in this Fund and to a lack of compensation for NEK and its costs, which goes into the column then uncompensated costs for previous periods, which we will eventually have to compensate all of us from our pocket. This seems to me to be part of the improvement of the Commission's work so that we do not reach such drastic numbers that could happen. One more thing that concerns consumers, and the last thing I want to say is that I didn't read in the report, maybe I missed it, but I think I didn't. On several occasions, we ask the question of the general terms and conditions of the European Union as both MPs and our meetings with consumer organisations, about these general conditions of the ERPs, about the heating companies, about the water companies being approved by you, published and the companies being obliged to publish them on their website, the current ones, with the date of their adoption. I think I did not see that in the report whether such measures were taken and what the consequences were. Many of the things that have been read in the Commission's report, which dealt with this report, have happened, but I propose to the President of the Commission, if he considers these remarks that we have made serious enough, to try to avoid them in the future this year, because in the end we are here to defend the interests of those who have chosen us. They are all users of energy, water and warm. It's nice when we talk about a public regulator, to really be the regulator of relationships, not their registrar. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u248	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Ermenkov? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. For the procedure please, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u249	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I am making a procedure based on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is related to shortening the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Energy Act proposed by Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs, three days old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u250	Thank you. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made to shorten the period between the first and the second vote on three days of that bill. Vote 94 MPs: 60 against 13, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Are there any other comments on the report? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will make a very brief statement, given the advanced time. I just felt obliged to congratulate the commissioners and the Commission on the harmonious approach. Thanks to the previous National Assembly and the consensus that there was between the political forces, we were able to make sure that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission was elected by the National Assembly, that is, we made sure that it was indeed an independent Commission, not dependent on the executive power and could make decisions more freely. Of course, then the previous National Assembly? Forty-third, boiled our energy at a very dramatic time? with huge deficits, with huge imbalances, unreformed, illiberalized and so on, and so on? not only the energy but also the gas sector. Thanks to the Commission's work, I would still like to thank God for working in such harmony and without a doubt that there are political impacts on it, I think that the energy sector is no longer the main topic of the debates between the political forces even in the election campaign. I wanted to express this when we are working in a constructive dialogue and when we are taking out the main priorities, we can create, firstly, the authority of the National Assembly and, secondly, make really some of the regulators that the country needs. God willing, forward to the Commission, to have a full, fine mandate and to be deprived of any doubts about impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u252	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Ivanov, Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u253	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The report on the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which was presented to your attention, shall comply with the provisions of art. 20, para. 4 of the Energy Act. Those provisions require the Commission to submit a report on its activities from the previous year by 30 March each year. I will not dwell on the content of the report, as all the priorities that the Commission has been working on in the last and this 2017 have been quite detailed in the report by the Energy Commission. I will only allow myself to say that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is one of the three pillars, which, for the second year, is already starting a third year, are active participants in the reforms that are being carried out in the Bulgarian energy and water sector. In the framework of this reform, the Commission, with its decisions, is decisions relating to regulations which serve to regulate energy and water sector activities, with its price decisions and with all other acts, is indeed an important participant in this reform. I would mention that the other two pillars are precisely the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, which, through the amendments to the Law, which were made in 2015 and 2016, gave a horizon for implementing these reforms, and the Ministry of Energy, which conduct energy policy in the country and in this regard are an engine in this reform. The main directions in which the Commission worked in the past 2016. I will only list them, are primarily the creation, as I told you, of the whole package of regulatory regulations in the field of electricity, natural gas, and in natural gas we actually built the whole practical and legal basis for future liberalisation in the sector of natural gas. Also, the work that was done as power regulation with the changes voted six months earlier in the Electricity Trading Rules created an opportunity to work as of 19 January 2016. The Bulgarian independent energy exchange in the Through the instructions that we have given to change the supplier of electricity, we have allowed small businesses and domestic consumers on a regulated market to change their supplier and what is one of the leading European practices, if it turns out that they are not satisfied with the new supplier, to be able to return to a regulated market without any financial penalties. The Commission in the area of the water sector, on the basis of the two rules on price regulation and the other one on quality regulation...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u254	Please focus on completion, Mr. Ivanov, so that we can vote on the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u255	Of course, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u256	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u257	And based on the second regulation regulating the quality of water services requested and the business plans of over 50 water operators were presented. In active dialogue with them, the Commission already approves for the new regulatory period the business plans of an essential part of them, others are in the process of approval. Before I graduate, Mr. Chairman, if you would just allow me to answer Mr. Ermenkov on one of the specific questions, the rest of me have written down.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u258	I'm afraid we won't have time to vote on the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u259	Okay. In that case, by thanking the National Assembly for its support for the Commission's activities by changing the Energy Act and other accompanying laws, I assure you that the Commission will continue to work in defence of the interests of the Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u260	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. I'm offering you a professional. Project! DECISION on the 2016 Energy and Water Regulatory Commission Activity Report The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 10, para. 3 of the Energy Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission's Activity Report for 2016. Please vote. They voted 127 MPs: for 100, against 1, abstention 26. The report has been adopted. Please, Mr. Nenkov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have just seen that the quorum was not necessary in order to be able to accept the reduction of the deadline from seven to three days, I am now making a new procedure the deadline for adopting proposals between the first and second votes in the Energy Act to be reduced from seven to four days. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria (BSP for Bulgaria))]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-01.u262	Don't call from the hall, quite another proposal makes for a 4-day period, not for 3 days. [[Noise.]] And it has nothing to do with what was not accepted before this proposal. Please vote on the proposal. Vote 124 MPs: 90 against 27, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. The deadline is set at four days. Parliamentary control messages on 2 June 2017, Friday, 9:00: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer five questions from the MPs Vassil Antonov; Ivo Hristov; Petar Vitanov [[two questions]] ; and Dimitar Boychev. 2. Interior Minister Valentin Radev will answer a question from the MPs Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva. 3. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer two questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Stanislav Vladimirov. 4. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer a question from MP Krum Zarkov. 5. The Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov will answer six questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Valentina Naydenova, Georgi Yordanov, Anelia Klisarova and Ilian Timchev, Kristian Vigenin and Nikolay Penev, Nina Mitkova with two questions; and Georgi Mihailov and two questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Mihailov, Valentina Naydenova, Ilian Timchev, Anelia Klisarova, Georgi Gokov and Ivan Ibrishimov. 6. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer two questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova; and Philip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev. 7. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer a question from the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev and Manol Genov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to a question from the National Representative Elena Yoncheva; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valery Simeonov to two questions from the MPs Jayhan Ibryamov and Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov at a question by the MPs Mihail Hristov, Anton Kutev and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova, one question from the MPs Krasimir Jankov and Daniel Yordanov; - the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to three questions from the MPs Miglena Alexandrova, Georgi Stoilov, Pencho Milkov, Krum Zarkov, Yordan Mladenov and Nadia Klisurska; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to five questions from the MPs Manol Genov, Stanislav Vladimirov, Valentin Milushev, Stanislav Ivanov, Dragomir Stoinev, Nikola Dinkov, Nadia Klisurska and Yordan Mladenov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to four questions from the MPs Nina Mitkova "two questions, Irena Anastasova and Petar Vitanov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev to the Minister of Culture Boyl Banov; - a request from the National Representative Manol Genov to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. Due to the country's absence in the parliamentary control session, Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will not participate. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda set for today, I am adjourned. Tomorrow, June 2nd, Friday, a 9:00 p.m. session, we begin with parliamentary control.
