ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u1	There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to include the following additional points in the weekly programme for the work of the National Assembly: Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act. I suggest that this be point two for today. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. I suggest that this be point three for today. According to the first bill are the MPs Danail Kirilov, Stanislav Ivanov and Ivelina Vassileva on 11 July 2017. He was adopted at the first vote on 19 July 2017. Under the second bill, importers are the national representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 4 July 2017. He was adopted on the first vote on 19 July 2017. I suggest you include one more point: Draft Declaration on the signing of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia. The representatives of the National Assembly are Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Cornelia Ninova, Krasimir Bogdanov, Imren Mehmedova, Polina Tsankova on 26 July 2017. This is going to be point four for today. Please vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 191 MPs: 119, against 58, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Mr. Boychev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday, I made a proposal that the point concerning the work of the NPC Commission and our proposal to extend its duration to be a fifth point. Then you said: calmly, the time will come, we will look at this point. You offered three points today. I understand that this topic is extremely unpleasant for you, and if you can save it, it is best for you. In the way we have completed the Programme, however, I have concerns that parliamentary time will not be enough for this point at all. By decision of the National Assembly, the deadline for the Commission's work is 29 July. My procedural proposal, Mr. President, is item 10 of the agenda "Project of an extension decision of the Temporary Commission for the National Palace of Culture and its report, to be point two of today's programme after discussing the nominations for Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u3	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Zhelyo Boychev. [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 190 MPs: for 94, against 59, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u4	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u5	Come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u6	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I ask for a re-vote, as colleagues have failed to vote. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u7	Thank you. It's a re-vote. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Vote 194 MPs: 97, against 82, abstention 15. [[Loud noise, laughter and shouting: "Eeeeeee!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]] The offer is not accepted. [[Voices from BSP for Bulgaria: "Procedure! "]] I'm sorry, the vote has been suspended. [[People's representative Petar Vitanov goes out to the stands.]] Please take your seat. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Please take your seat. Quiet in the court, please! Quiet in the court, please! [[National representatives from BSP for Bulgaria stand right.]] Take your seats. [[Noise and banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Take your seats, one by one, I'll give you the floor. [[Replys from MP Tasco Ermenkov, reclining at the first bank.]] This is not your place, Mr. Ermenkov. You don't belong there, Mr. Ermenkov. Take your seat. I'll give you a procedure in the manner of conduct. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u8	Mr. Chairman, I understand your great reluctance to include this item on the agenda, given the hot potato you cooked yourself. I understand the desire to veil and cast the NPC problem under the quilt in the hope that people won't notice this thing. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that by the end of the vote, there were two seconds left, and my colleague raised his hand that he could not vote. I must tell you that it is absolutely your duty to monitor when, what and how it happens in this Chamber. There, the Quaestors saw that he had raised his hand and that he couldn't vote. Two seconds were left until the end of the procedure. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] And you randomly ended a vote that violated the rules of the National Assembly. Please, get a hold of yourself! Stop playing the role of Sergeant here! Start running the National Assembly in a democratic manner, following its rules! Otherwise, we will remain convinced that instead of being President of the National Assembly, you are playing the role of a front for some decisions that are in no way in favor of our authority or the authority of the state. Attempt to hide NDK crimes will not help you not to become public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u9	Come in for a procedure, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u10	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am doing procedure item 10, which was voted in the Work Programme during the week, to become item third of today's agenda. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u11	A reverse opinion? [[Noise and lines.]] Please order in the court! I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 206 MPs: for 103, against 93, abstention 10. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The offer is not accepted. [[Relations from the National Representative Philip Popov.]] One minute is up. You didn't vote, Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u12	He didn't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u13	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u14	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm doing a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u15	Revoting procedure, provided that if there is a person who has not voted in the first vote, then his vote will be respected. Otherwise, the result remains from the first vote, as the procedure will be unfounded. Agree to be unwarranted. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Revoting procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 205 MPs: for 103, against 93, abstention 9. [[Loud and long applause and applause: "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]] The proposal was adopted point three is the NPC report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u16	Thank you. Mr President, regarding the agenda, the Law on the Judiciary was only yesterday seen at a second reading in the Commission, and in the late afternoon. The time limits required by the Rules of Procedure have not expired to be seen in plenary, so I suggest...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u17	What deadline hasn't expired?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u18	There's a deadline. I suggest the item be removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u19	Thank you. A reverse opinion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u20	I will not dwell on formal grounds, Mr. Chairman. These are the people who until that day were saying that there were no laws and that this National Assembly was not working, and now they are proposing not to look at the laws. [[Applause from GERB.]] Fairs and circuses! Come on, please! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u21	[[He addressed Philip Popov.]] Do you keep your offer? [[Noise and lines.]] I put to the vote the proposal of MP Philip Popov for dropping the item from the agenda. Please vote. They voted 209 MPs: 81 against 101, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. Message: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its order has authorised the passage through the territorial sea, the stay in the inland waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the visit of the port of Varna to a ship of the Greek Navy from 9 August to 12 August 2017 including. The visit is related to the conduct of training sailing of cadets and students at the College for the preparation of Petty Officers in the Greek Navy. The notification was received on 26 July 2017 by the Commission. No 703-09-26 and granted to the Defence Committee. The first point of today's program is: ELECTRONIC-DEPENDENT REPRESENTATIVE, REGULAR MANAGEMENT AND REPRESENTATIVE, REPRESENTATIVE MANAGEMENT OF THE FINANCIAL REPRESENTATIVE AND REPRESENTATIVE. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking for a procedure. I ask that Mrs. Karina Karaivanova be admitted to the Chamber. Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, both candidates for Vice-Presidents Mr. Rumen Sokolov and Mr. Yordan Chompalov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u23	Please vote on the proposal made. They voted 191 MPs: 163 against 7, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u24	Mr. President, according to the Rules of Procedure, I will present a summary of the report. ♪ I can't believe on hearing the proposed candidates as Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission: Rumen Dimitrov Sokolov for Vice-President Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of At an open meeting held on 25 July 2017 and aired in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Budget and Finance Committee held a hearing of the proposed candidates for Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission under Section IV of the rules of procedure adopted for the proposal of a candidate for a Vice-President, Head of the Management Board and of a candidate for a Vice-President, Head of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Budget and Finance Commission, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. The President of the Budget and Finance Committee Mrs. Menda Stoyanova noted that the documents presented show that the candidates meet the requirements of the Financial Supervision Commission Act for members of the Financial Supervision Commission and should be allowed to be heard. According to Section III of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission's opinion on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army is that at present no documents have been found establishing the belonging of Rumen Dimitrov Sokolov and Yordan Nikolov Chompalov to the authorities under art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents, and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The candidates were presented by the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission Ms. Karina Karaivanova, who emphasized their impeccable professional reputation. According to her, these are individuals who will greatly help to realize the ambition of the institution that is in charge of becoming an independent regulator. The proposals proposed by the MPs are by undisputed professionals, who would increase the authority and capacity of the C.F.R.S., would help exclusively to validate it as an independent regulator who successfully tackles the challenges of the daily supervision of the non-banking financial sector. In conclusion, Ms. Karaivanova called for support for the applications. Following the submission of the applications, personal presentation and concepts of their activities in the Financial Supervision Commission have been developed. First his concept presented Mr. Yordan Chompalov a candidate for vice-president, head of management, Security supervision and stated that he would work on a team principle for realising the Commission's concept of financial supervision and raising the Commission as a modern regulatory body associated with professionalism, dialogue, transparency and impartiality. Its activities will focus on: protecting the interests of insured persons and pensioners, and ensuring stability, transparency and confidence in financial markets, as well as ensuring stable, secure and adequate pensions of insured persons. Mr. Chompalov stressed that the regulatory relations on supplementary pension insurance, especially in the second pillar, are of exceptional social importance in order to ensure financial security of Bulgarian citizens, through an additional pension and this social importance requires caution for the creation of regulation which does not allow financial collapse with the funds of the second pillar. This would be done by strengthening the efficiency and quality of regulation and supervision of the supplementary pension insurance sector. He pointed out in detail that he would work to achieve concrete results by explaining in detail the specific measures in the field of the regulatory functions of the FSC in relation to the supervisory function, as well as the measures aimed at increasing the financial culture of the insured persons. The next person to present his concept was Mr. Rumen Sokolov, a candidate for vice-president, head of management. He pointed out the main objectives that will lead in his activity: continuing the work with the participants in the capital market in relation to the implementation of the directive on markets in financial instruments II and the regulations of the European Commission; for the protection of investors' interests; for updating the ways of revealing information by supervised entities; for regular institutionalized meetings with representatives of associations of supervised entities; for strengthening educational initiatives related to the prevention of fraud as well as for raising the financial culture of investors; for working with other market participants on the occasion of strengthening initiatives to attract new issuers among good Bulgarian private companies; for constant analysis of the market situation and the proposed instruments of the information provided by market participants. Following the presentation of the concepts, the candidates were asked many questions by the Commissioners and those present. To Mr. Chompalov the questions were as follows: - by the MP Rumen Gechev, who expressed satisfaction with the qualification and professional experience of the candidate. He raised questions about occupational pension funds: is there such in Bulgaria and what is their future; what exactly are the recommendations from the International Organisation of Pension Supervisors and, in particular, those concerning Bulgaria; what is the management experience of the candidate and what teams has he led in his activities so far? - by the National Representative Maria Ilieva in connection with the liberalisation of investment restrictions for pension insurance companies in the medium-term aspect of the need for a change in the restrictions put before pension insurance companies in relation to their investment policy? - by the National Representative Sergey Kichikov in relation to the said need to increase the financial culture of the insured persons how and by what mechanisms will the awareness of the Bulgarian citizen about pension funds be raised? - by the National Representative Lalo Kirilov - how will the problems of disclosure of information and investment in related persons be solved? To the questions asked Mr. Yordan Chompalov gave detailed answers: regarding the compulsory funds, which are the second pillar of the current insurance system; regarding the question of changing the restrictions on pension funds in relation to the draft Social Security Code and the proposals made therein regarding the financial culture and the recommendations made by the International Organisation of Pension Supervisors, which is called the Principes of Private Pension Supervision. To Mr. Sokolov, the questions were as follows: - by the MP Rumen Gechev were asked supplementary questions about the education and specializations of the candidate and his professional experience. - by the National Representative Lalo Kirilov: what are the measures envisaged in the direction of increasing the number of traders and issuers of shares and bonds on our market. Mr. Rumen Sokolov answered the questions he asked. On the basis of the hearing held, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to examine and vote in accordance with Section V of the Rules of Procedure the proposed applications of Rumen Dimitrov Sokolov as Vice-President, Head of the Board of Directors,.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Project! DECISION on the election of the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 5, para. 2 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act... Mr. Chairman, there are two purely technical adjustments here that I will read: I'm sorry. I'm 1. Rumen Dimitrov Sokolov has been added to this article, and Vice-President of the Board of Directors. 2. Yordan Nikolov Chompalov as member and vice-president in charge of the Financial Supervision Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Under the rules I will now introduce you to them again: the election of a candidate for Vice-President, managing the Financial Supervision Commission of the National Assembly. First, the meeting is broadcast in real time on the Internet.. through the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. Secondly, the National Assembly is listening to a summary of the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. Third, each candidate shall be submitted by the importer within two minutes. Fourth, debates are being held on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Fifth, the vote is obvious through the computerized voting system. Sixth, the candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present MPs is considered elected. Seventh, if the candidate does not receive the necessary votes, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. The author of the proposal is Mrs. Karaivanova, please order to present the candidates. You have two minutes each, dear Mrs. Karaivanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention two applications: Mr. Rumen Sokolov for the Head of the Investment Activity Board and Mr. Yordan Chompalov for the Head of the Management Department. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u27	Colleagues, I beg you to be quiet in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u28	Mr. Rumen Sokolov holds a Master's Degree in Economics from the University of National and World Economy in Sofia, as well as a Master's Degree in Business Administration from the University of Croatia. He has acquired the right to carry out business as an investment consultant by the State Securities Commission. He speaks English, Serbian and Russian. Its professional development over the years is exclusively in the field of finance and, in particular, in the field of capital markets. This is a person with a clear personal idea of the dynamics of the processes of the capital market and the regulatory base governing its development. Until now Mr. Sokolov is the manager of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange and is responsible for public disclosure by public companies. In addition to his good knowledge of the present on the nation's capital market, Mr. Sokolov has very good and interesting ideas for his future development, and I will rely very much on this together and jointly to support the development of the capital market in Bulgaria. The other candidate, Yordan Chompalov, is among the most respected lawyers in the field of securities and financial markets law, trade and banking law. Mr. Yordan Chompalov holds a Master's degree in Law from the Faculty of Law at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski and subsequently acquired a postgraduate qualification in financial management at the University of National and World Economy, the additional six-month qualification in the US complements his knowledge of investment, banks and finance. He's been a member of the Sofia Bar since 2001. The beginning of his expert career Mr. Chompalov began in the State Securities Commission, where he later took up the position of Head of the Department of Normalisation and then became a member of the Commission. There is active participation in the development of the regulations of the capital market in Bulgaria. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the proposed applications are of impeccable professionals with impeccable reputation, and I believe that if elected, they will contribute to improving the Commission's work, improving its expertise, and increasing the reputation of the Commission as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u29	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karaivanova. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As always and now, we will respect and understand the submitted applications, as the two colleagues who are represented are people who have graduated from economic and legal education with excellent success. From this point of view, we do not question their general education, their professional experience. However, what we want to comment on is an issue which is not mentioned in Ms. Karaivanova's recommendations. In her choice, it is the extent to which the candidates and to what extent they meet the requirements of the posts which they must occupy if they are selected. Dear colleagues, under the supervision and protection of the Financial Assets Commission, there are 23 billion. lv. or that makes a little more than a quarter of the gross domestic product of the Republic of Bulgaria. The current capitalization of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange is 10 billion. lv. This body regulates and controls 360 public companies, 40 investment firms, 30 management companies with over 100 funds under management. Its powers and scope are: Bulgarian Stock Exchange, Central Depository, 9 pension companies with 29 supplementary pension funds and 44 insurance companies, plus about 400 insurance brokers. In other words, honourable Members, we are talking about an institution that is no less important than the Bulgarian National Bank. This is about management and control of tens of billions of leva, and it concerns the interests of millions of Bulgarians, and therefore our requirements must be high and must be related precisely to the performance of functions in these positions. With regard to the insurance supervision, Mr. Chompalov graduated with honors from Sofia University, graduated from the Sofia University, specialized at the UNWE, has specialized at the American University in Wisconsin. Reviews, if I can afford, since I don't personally know them both candidates, are very good for him as an expert. But we have asked questions and will ask Mrs. Karaivanova to answer the question: what is her confidence that a proven professional as a lawyer, as a lawyer in the field of realization of securities, undoubtedly with a high score, which has not had management experience? But the colleague has not managed teams, and in this case he must manage 30 experts, be responsible for pension funds and others for billions. The first question to Ms. Karaivanova will be: can she give us guarantees that the lack of this management experience will be compensated and how? Are management risks taken? Secondly, as regards investment supervision. Dear colleagues, my colleague Sokolov graduated with honors, but specialty "Territorial systems" at the UNWE, not "Financials," not "Accounting," not "Economics," not "International Business." His education at Bachelor level is a completely different specialty that has nothing to do with finance and capital markets. Secondly, he has graduated from a Master's degree programme in Croatia, according to the basics of management, which also has no specialization and focus on finance and capital markets. It is disturbing the professional experience of Mr. Sokolov, who is impressive, but is not in the sphere we are talking about. One part of Mr. Sokolov's experience is as a journalist from various editions, not to advertise them in any way, with announcements on the capital markets, but are not related to expert work. Second, a well-known internship, Mr. Sokolov has in a company that gave up its license in 2010 due to a lack of turnover, because after all the annual fee, I think is about 1500 or 1700 BGN. Besides, Mr. Sokolov is currently running a company of 4 people, including him. This is a room rented in the Bulgarian Stock Exchange and the function of this four-member company is to maintain the server on which investment firms are uploaded adverts. Mr. Sokolov's excellent education is in a completely different realm. Secondly, its management experience in recent years is to manage three more people, given that it is an investment supervision in which they work, I think of 70 highly qualified experts in the Financial Supervision Commission. I am surprised that qualifications are being made in Mrs. Karaivanova's letter, which says she is impressed by his expert erudition and management scale. The question to Ms. Karaivanova regarding this candidate will be: can she explain to us what this management scale is, managing three people? How does education and practice relate to the management of these billions of levs? We also have the following question to the honourable Mrs. Karaivanova. Currently there is a deputy director of the C.F.R.I.S. Deputy Director of the Board of Directors. I'll tell you the facts, you make the comparison. The new candidate, who is proposed, has graduated from the Business School number one in Europe, the man who performs these functions and has chosen him in the Forty-second National Assembly with the votes of all parliamentary groups, has graduated from the Business School number one in Europe, the Landon Business Cole in Finance; he has graduated from the International Economic Relations and the UNWE; he has worked as head of the financial corporation Discovery in Moscow with a staff of 10 thousand people, and 20 billion turnover; he has worked in Credit Suis and UBC; he has specialized in the New York Bank; he manages and we are satisfied with the results of the implementation of the CCCS Strategy since last year under the leadership of Ms. Karaivanova. The question arises: why are we going to replace a man with a fantastic education in finance, who performs these functions, who manages tens of billions of assets, who will replace him with a great candidate, but from another area? If anyone thinks they want to secure a majority of the five people: one plus two, so that they can make their own decisions, I think, honourable Members, that we are going in a direction that can lead us to unnecessary management risks. With all due respect, we will not support these two applications and will ask Ms. Karaivanova to answer our specific questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u31	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll allow myself to say a few words after professor. Gechev, as I am one of the MPs who participated in the hearing and election of Ms. Karaivanova in the previous parliament. I would just like to remind you that at the hearing, I asked a question to her about the gap that was between the Financial Supervision Commission's Rules of Procedure and the Law. In essence, the Rules had taken away all the powers that the law gave to the Commission's governors for their operational and management autonomy in their activities. It has committed that this will be returned to practice and work in the Commission. As I understand it, at the moment, a year after that choice, none of this has happened. The decisions shall continue to be agreed in advance with the Chair and any outgoing correspondence shall be accompanied by a letter from the Chair. After Professor. Gechev explained the lack of management and administrative experience of the candidates, I want to say something very important. In this Chamber a few days ago absolutely unanimously, with consensus from all political forces, the Law on Public Offering of Securities was adopted. Here we have a similarity and a clear understanding of the development of this market. With the approach Ms. Karaivanova is making at the moment, she has made no sense of the agreement that has been reached! I would like to say that with these applications, we are missing a unique opportunity to select a professional and independent team of the Financial Supervision Commission. My doubts are that there will be a need and an effort to impose a single type of management from which we have stated that we will distinguish ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. Ms. Karaivanova was motivated enough when she made the proposal. If he's willing to say anything else, but he doesn't have that obligation. I won't. We are voting on the draft decision proposed by the parliamentary platform. Project! DECISION on the election of Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 5, para. 2 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act HAS DECIDED Choose: 1. Rumen Dimitrov Sokolov for member and Vice-President of the Board of Directors of the Financial Supervision Commission. 2. Yordan Nikolov Chompalov as member and vice-president in charge of the Financial Supervision Commission. Please vote. Vote 215 MPs: 90 against 110, abstention 15. The draft decision has not been adopted. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal on the agenda: to exchange the review of the reports for the second reading of the draft laws "The bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Judiciary to pass before the Law on the Protection of the Environment."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u35	A reverse opinion? I won't. We vote on the procedural proposal. Vote 215 MPs: 132, against 73, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE COURT OF JUSTICE. Come in with the report, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Report on the Draft Law on amendment and supplement to the Law on the Judiciary, No 754-01-35, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov, Hristian Radev Mitev, Anna Vasileva Alexandrova and Iglika Ivanova Subeva, on 4 July 2017, adopted at the first vote on 19 July 2017. The Law on the Judiciary was amended and supplemented by the Law on the Law on the Judiciary. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u37	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 168 MPs: 127 against 1, abstention 40. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u38	According to § 1, there is a proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Yordanka Fikirliyska and Maria Ilieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28, para. 1 after the words the elected member of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be added to the relevant college within 14 days of the date of expiry or early termination of the term of office, and after the words
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u39	You have a say in this? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 1 on the Commission report. They voted 154 MPs: for 110, against none, abstentioned 44. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u40	Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50, para. 1 after the word "inspectives" shall be added to the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council within 14 days of the date of expiry or early termination of the term of office.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u41	Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 with its respective content in accordance with the Commission report. Vote 150 MPs: 110 against 1, abstention 39. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u42	Proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Yordanka Fikirliyska and Maria Ilieva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 195 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 3 shall be added after the words of the Service Officer and shall be added in any form, including in person, through a plantee and/or with a clear and/or hidden agent, and the words of the professional associations of judges, prosecutors and investigators or other lawyers shall be replaced by the professional associations in which they are members. (b) point 4 is amended as follows: "4." obtains remuneration for carrying out an activity under a contract or other relationship with a state, municipal or public organisation, a commercial company, a cooperative, a non-profit legal entity, a natural person or a sole trader and to pursue a free profession or other paid professional activity; (c) point 5 is repealed. 2. A new para is being created. 2: A Judge, Prosecutor and Investigator, while acting, may also receive remuneration for: 1. carrying out scientific and teaching activities or the exercise of copyrights; 2. participation in European and international programmes and projects; 3. participation in the drafting of draft legislative acts awarded by the National Assembly, the Supreme Judicial Council or by executive bodies. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it the words of the administrative courts, the judges of the Supreme Administrative Court and the words of the Supreme Administrative Court shall be deleted. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u43	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In § 3, t. 4 is written down that the State, municipalities, commercial companies, individuals and so on may not receive remuneration for the work carried out under a contract or under another. It is true that here there is a record of the salary, but depending on the interpretation, it is established that it cannot actually receive, for example, remuneration from a lease. In my opinion, is it to be interpreted as a reward in this particular case of hard work? There must be some clarification, otherwise it's insane. They will not be able to receive rent income either because it is by contract or by another relationship with a natural or legal person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I shall put to the vote § 3 on the Commission report. Please vote. There are 146 MPs voting: 107 against 1, abstention 38. § 3 of the Commission Report was adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u46	According to § 3 there is a proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Yordanka Fikirliyska and Maria Ilieva. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ Article 217 is amended as follows: Art. 217. (1) Judges, prosecutors and investigators may freely form and belong to organisations that protect their professional interests. These organisations may not be members of federations and confederates of trade union organisations of workers and employees. (2) Organizations under para. 1 acquire the quality of a legal person after their entry in accordance with the order established for the entry of non-profit associations. Founders and members can only be judges, prosecutors and investigators. (3) A Partnership Council shall be established at the Supreme Judicial Council. The Council shall consist of three elected members of the Supreme Judicial Council appointed by the plenary by representatives of each of the organizations under para. 1 whose membership is not less than 5 per cent of the respective number of judges, prosecutors and investigators, as well as representatives of judges, prosecutors and investigators not members of such organisations. (4) The Council shall conduct a dialogue on all matters relating to the professional interests of judges, prosecutors and investigators. (5) The organisation and activities of the Partnership Council shall be determined by a decree of the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u47	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 4 on the Commission report. The vote is 139 MPs: 110, none, abstention 29. Paragraph 4 of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u48	Under § 4, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of the paragraph which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 230, para. 1 words in the case of art. 132 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u49	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The Commission report was submitted at 8.58, and I was given 15 minutes ago. I believe that this is contrary to the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly. There must be 24 hours before the discussion, but nevertheless, given that certain members of the National Assembly are still members of the Legal Committee and are aware of the proposals, I can take account of the texts. However, I do not know how much the vote of my colleagues will be informed. With regard to the proposed paragraph. In the present case, the amendment of the Law on the Judiciary provides that in the case of an indictment against a magistrate, the latter should be removed from work until the matter is clarified. Now it is suggested that this should happen when the crime, first of all, is deliberate, and second of all, is of a general nature. I agree to have the text edited by us, to be replaced by the word "intentionally," but why should it be of a general nature? I'm setting an example. If a magistrate commits a crime of a private nature, he insults someone or slaps someone, it's a minor bodily harm. The current editorial will give him the right, with such an accusation, to continue law enforcement or to press charges against other people. I therefore propose that in this text it be understood to be of a general nature and to remain solely for a deliberate crime. I believe that my proposal was well motivated and you would accept it. A person who has committed a crime of a private nature cannot carry out his activities as a magistrate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote the proposed proposal made by the MP Milkov for dropping the expression of general character at the end of the text. We are voting on a proposal made by the parliamentary platform. Please vote. 140 MPs vote: 35, against 64, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 5 on the Commission report. They voted 141 MPs: 111, none, abstention 30. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u52	Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 233, para. 6 A sentence is created second: The judges in the Administrative Court of Sofia-city are assigned the corresponding remuneration of a judge in the Appeals Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u53	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 143 MPs: 50, against 69, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u54	Proposal from the National Representative Maria Ilieva. The motion has been withdrawn. According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov, Yordanka Fikirliyska and Maria Ilieva. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1 after the words "Judicial employees can't be added to the list.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u55	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My speech is more of a question to the importers: what did the change of 180 degrees to the initial position of Osanna to the unfolding position? Did you have a call about what happened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u57	Are there any lines? There are no lines. Statements? There are no other speeches. I shall put to the vote § 6 on the Commission report. 110 MPs voted: 102, none, abstention 8. Paragraph 6 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u58	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 6, which becomes § 7, and proposes to establish a section of the Final provision, with the following wording: "Concluding provision' § 7. Within 30 days of the entry into force of this law, all judges, prosecutors and investigators, members of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Chief Inspector, inspectors from the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council shall submit to the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council a declaration under art. 195a, al. 1 sentence first.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u59	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u60	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the Final provision is the time to say that this Law, the way it was tabled, discussed and adopted today, focused on itself everything that legislative technique should not be. From nowhere, tabled at the last moment, which caused a public scandal, began to be corrected between first and second readings even before being voted at first reading, at the last moment a major text withdrawn from it, which the report says the Commission supports it in principle and finally tabled for consideration in plenary in violation of the most elementary period, which can allow MEPs to get acquainted with what they are voting on. And this on the topic on which we had to work together on the topic, which is one of our priorities, on the topic that we all declared in the first days of the National Assembly that we will work because we need the subject of our justice system. This was a force exercise, an imposition of a Law and the BSP did not vote for any text! Let that be known!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u61	You don't make laws with declarations!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u62	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. I was going to use the Final Provisions for such a statement, but let's see what Mr. Kirilov has to say about the substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u63	Honourable Members of the House, Mr. Chairman! I can hardly describe such attitude and behavior. I am only explaining it to myself in view of the need to seek a clash and a political debate. I would like to inform colleagues who were not present at the Committee on Legal Affairs yesterday, obviously assessing that this issue is not so important. The Committee on Legal Affairs yesterday debated about four hours this report, even though it is only six paragraphs. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Yes, here colleagues in the Chamber specify, until 19.00 "19.30." Including representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council, those who judged, those who had an entirely opposition opinion and an opinion on the bill. Representatives of all NGOs who recognized themselves as recipients of funds from here and hence were also involved. I will not comment on the views on the implementation of the Rules of Procedure, but I believe that a broad debate has been held on this bill. It makes sense that some party wants to report to these organizations and to say: "Here's our party does not vote, not once voted on these provisions. Yes, colleagues, you did not vote for transparency. You didn't vote to have clarity on the status of the magistrates of justice. You couldn't even navigate in the provisions that give the magistrates a greater opportunity, clearer rules, even to conduct scientific, teaching and any activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Any other speeches? [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Let me use the closing provisions too. No term of the Rules has been violated by the opposite means either speculation or ignorance of the Rules. [[Noise and lines.]] Paragraph 7 shall be put to the vote. Please vote on the Commission report. They voted 153 MPs: 119, none, 34 abstentions. Paragraph 7 of the Commission report has been adopted. There's a proposal from MP Hamid Hamid Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u65	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u66	You're withdrawing him. Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u67	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I suggest a t. 3 on the agenda shall be the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u68	A counteroffer? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u69	Mrs. Chairman! I'm making a counterproposal of what I've done. I'm going to try to argue that my own counterproposal. I understand the reluctance of GERB's parliamentary group to discuss the NDK problem. I understand they don't like their dirty laundry coming out. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u70	Mr. Ermenkov...!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u71	I am aware that the management of the NDK, which was in their time and has led to a suspicion of massive embezzlement of money, is not necessary and is not on their agenda because it embarrasses them. However, I ask you, let us go according to the order in which we united at the beginning, not quite, of course, only colleagues from GERB were opposed, and discuss a continuation of the activities of the National Palace of Culture Commission, because otherwise we become accomplices to what has happened. If it is normal for GERB to disappear hundreds, thousands or millions of leva per building, I think that for the other MPs this is not normal. So I suggest that the point that was at the moment remain, without making any changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u72	I don't see any drama in what you're saying, because we have about half an hour at the environmental point and then by 2:00 we have to debate on the NDK. Nobody has any worries. I put to the vote Mrs. Vasileva's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u73	Please suspend the vote and declare a result. Vote 196 MPs: 105 against 87 abstention 4. The motion is accepted. You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal to extend the working hours of today's plenary session until the item on the NDK agenda is exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u75	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 192 MPs: 172 against 16, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION LAW. Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber Mr. Boyko Malinov Director-General of the Ministry of Environment and Water.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u77	We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 185 MPs: 166 against 11, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. The Commission report will introduce us to Mrs. Vasileva. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u78	Report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act No 754-01-43, submitted by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Stanislav Ivanov and Ivelina Vassileva on 11 July 2017, adopted on the first vote on 19 July 2017. The Law on the Protection of the Environment is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Protection of the Environment. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u79	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the text of the importer for the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 153 MPs: 146, none, abstention 7. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u80	Paragraph 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u81	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. [[(Reply from the National Representative Danail Kirilov:]] There are no speeches. We are voting § 1 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 155 MPs: 113 against 1, abstention 41. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u82	Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov and a group of MPs: A new paragraph shall be set up: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 88 new paras are being created. 4 and para. 5 with the following content: The decisions of the Court of First Instance on complaints against decisions of the competent authority on plans relating to the realization of sites which are designated as objects of national importance by an act of the Council of Ministers or are defined as municipal sites of paramount importance by an act of the relevant municipal council or are certified as priority investment sites under the Investment Promotion Act. (5) The Court shall examine the appeals under para. 4 and shall rule by decision and the proceedings shall be concluded within six months of their submission. The Court of Justice shall declare the decision within one month of the hearing in which the hearing of the case was concluded. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ivelina Vassileva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 88 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 4 and 5. The decisions of the Court of First Instance on appeals against opinions and decisions under para. 4 are final. 1 under plans, programs and investment proposals related to the realization of sites which are designated as objects of national importance by an act of the Council of Ministers. (5) The Court shall examine the appeals under para. 4 and shall rule by decision and the proceedings shall be concluded within 6 months of their submission. The Court of Justice shall declare the decision within one month of the hearing in which the hearing of the case was concluded. 2. Previously on AMC's... 4 and 5 become respectively. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u83	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the proposals submitted and just read by us to amend the Law on the Protection of the Environment are mostly dictated by the opportunities we seek for more effective, for faster legal proceedings concerning the contested environmental procedures relating to this Law. Because for all of us it is undeniable that it is a large part of these environmental procedures that are slow and long, and court practices about these procedures are very sluggish and clumsy. In this regard, our proposals are. In view of the spirit of the debate, which was held in the committees and the proposals already adopted by GERB colleagues related to this Law, is also our proposal, by which I propose to extend the scope of the single-instance judicial review to these contested procedures and, of course, the judicial procedure on environmental impact assessments. We propose that the sites, which are of primary importance for the Bulgarian municipalities, on the one hand, and on the other, certified as priority investment sites under the Investment Promotion Act, should be included in unitary control. This, in our view, will result in the acceleration and rapid finalisation of environmental legislation procedures, which is actually related not only to the most important and large national infrastructure projects, but also to the municipal and certified ones related to the Investment Promotion Act. We believe that, in the single instance proceedings in this sense, appeals will be significantly reduced and the lengthy and severe procedures for the cassation appeal of environmental impact assessments will be avoided. While we are avoiding the standard two-instant cassation trial and control here, we believe that the single instance is not a denial of justice or a lack of control, but rather an optimal, reasonable way to preserve legitimately and appropriately these deadlines for the contested acts, decisions and opinions on the environmental impact assessment. With our proposal we aim and uniformity of the legal regime by the Law on the Protection of the Environment and by the Law on the Construction of the Area............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 25, para. 7 of ZUT. In our opinion, judicial control will still remain guaranteed, albeit one-instantial, all the more so that all these sites, projects, whether national, whether municipal, pass through and have gone through many public, open and co-ordination procedures. It's kind of a guarantee of publicity, of openness to the process. In view of the speed of the trial itself, we propose to introduce a six-month period, albeit instructive, to complete the legal proceedings. During yesterday's meeting of the Committee on the Environment and Waters, there was a serious debate and we met serious reservations and disagreement with our proposals by human rights, environmental, environmental and green organisations. This, of course, should not surprise anyone, because for most of them it is a profession or perhaps even a livelihood. Some of our colleagues disagreed with them because they believe that our proposals contradict relevant international conventions signed by Bulgaria. The Orhus Convention is in mind. Another part of our colleagues claimed that we are almost at a deviant level and contrary to the Bulgarian traditions in the judiciary, but ultimately it is not only the legality that is important to us, it is important for us and the appropriateness, it is important to protect our beautiful nature, it is important to protect the environment, but it is also extremely important for us to develop the economic environment in the country and support the relevant regions through these proposals. We believe that they are reasonable, rational and appropriate. We hope that they will be evaluated and accepted by the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u86	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Stoyanov! As I mentioned to the Commission, here the balance is between protecting citizens' rights and their right to defend themselves in court and large investment projects. We will inevitably compromise by limiting people's right to defend themselves. It is no secret to anyone, I have shared it publicly that I am a supporter of this idea and support it as a representative of the National Assembly elected by Veliko Tarnovo to speed up the processes. In the internal debate that we had in BSP and with our colleagues, I met the argument that once we make this compromise, tomorrow we will do it for another, third and fifth, and we will go too far. I have always believed that we have enough responsibility and consciousness not to make that mistake. But, Mr. Stoyanov, with your suggestions even before the Law became a fact, you have shown that such a responsibility we do not have and we immediately went too far. Going this way, how far can we go if the procedures are clumsy? Well, let's do for the criminal trial of an instance, because the procedures are clumsy and the process is slow?! Going that way, I think we're gonna get to a very wrong place. Mr. Stoyanov, we strongly oppose your proposals. [[(Applause and cheering by "BSP for Bulgaria": Bravo, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u87	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u88	Thank you for your opportunity to reply, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Member, you are adjourned here and declared yourselves in practice against some fundamental principles in law. In the administrative process, the proceedings are bilateral and the subject of appeal of the first instance is the administrative act itself, and the second instance is the cassation instance, and it examines the decision of the first instance. Especially when it comes to such important, nationally important sites of great public interest, with great importance for our nation, it is unacceptable to shorten the judiciary. There is therefore a court in the end, precisely in order for all acts to be as legal as possible and both the acts of the administration of the Council of Ministers and the first instance. That's why there are two instances! This is a basic principle, norm in Bulgarian law in both administrative proceedings and criminal and civil proceedings. We understand the desire for the so-called 'fast track', but accept our proposals, keep the two branches, maintain control, because everything else leads to the conclusion of stimulating practice of corruption. On the one hand, you declare that you are fighting corruption and, on the other hand, control, when there is an opportunity to create such corruption, you remove it and make judicial control one-instant. This is insane, ridiculous! Thank you. PRESENTER GAVEN: Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Is there a third line? No. Mr. Stoyanov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bojankov, dear Mr. Popov, dear colleagues! No one intends to violate either the Constitution or the Bulgarian legislation. Moreover, our proposal is related to the extremely important issue of the development of the Bulgarian regions. A large part of the colleagues present here were representatives of the local authorities, mayors, municipal councilors, chairman of municipal councils. The basic principle on which we have moved in the preparation of this Bill is indeed for the adequacy and proportionality of this single-instant judicial review. Because there is no way for us to subject important national infrastructure sites to such control, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, for smaller sites - smaller on a national scale, but extremely important and priority for each of the 264 municipalities in Bulgaria - the judicial proceedings will be two-instantial. It was this principle that led to the preparation of our bill. I call on all those who, indeed, in some way, and I am convinced that you are all such people for your regions, for their municipalities, let us make so that projects which, because of letters of ecologists, have been dragging themselves into a courtroom for years and cannot be realized, with common efforts to implement them. That's our effort. I hope for your support as well. [[Applause and cheering from OP: "Bravo, bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u90	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the Commission proposal that we are considering, the proposal of colleagues from the Patriotic Front Atanas Stoyanov and a group of MPs, and a little further the proposal of colleagues from BSP, there is one thing that unites them. In the three proposals, although to some extent they fight each other or contradict each other, what unites them is the desire to speed up the investment process. This is also what the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is empathetic to. In our election program t. 1 is...................................................................................... Now I address my colleagues from the BSP! How can we speed up the investment process when your proposal for short term for two-in-one is good, but only for national sites? Why should the sites of municipal importance, which are the great basis of the investment process, fall away from this? You want us to keep the two-way? Great, let's keep it! You want a quick investment process, a fast track! I appeal to colleagues from GERB. Let us accept it as municipal, to be bilateral within six months. Because, colleagues, before the election campaign began I am making this deviation because it is relevant to the topic and to our position, we had a meeting with the employers' organizations of the Bulgarian business and with the American Chamber of Commerce as the largest foreign employer in Bulgaria and investor. The general thing was that everyone wanted to speed up the investment process. Everyone in one voice was crying against five-year-old cases, and I'll even quote what they were saying: "Look, gentlemen of politics! When an investment decision is appealed and two, three, four years is delayed, it loses its relevance as an investment. What investments do you expect in your country after the investment process has been tripped by five years of court hanging out? Let us unite in this Chamber in decisions that do not conflict with fundamental principles of law, but really speed up the investment process! Now we're going to speed up the objects of national importance, great! One-instant, quick, six months, okay! What about the main mass of investments that are made in municipal sites? Why don't we do that? What's stopping us? I heard law enforcement colleagues say that the appeal of the municipal courts was first in the district court. This is not enough level to be appealed, it must be bilaterally. Well, well, let's do for the national one-in-a-station six months, for the municipal two-in-a-station, six months. What's the problem? Then we will give a really clear sign that we in this Chamber understand, honourable colleagues from BSP, that pension money comes from investments, does not fall like manna from heaven, as once fell on the Jewish people led by Moses. There's no way they're gonna fall! Investment, investment and investment is the solution to all social problems and speeding up this process must be a common task of all parliamentary groups. That is why we at the DPS are appealing for these proposals today to be voted in such a way as to speed up the investment process and the objects of national importance and the investment process and the sites of municipal importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u93	Thank you. My line, Mr. Tsonev, is very brief. First of all, you know that the appeal does not stop the execution. Secondly, making reference to this type of cases concerning objects of national importance, the whole procedure is a maximum of one to two years. In other words, in the first and second instance, there is no waste of time and that is not the problem. Don't waste time in court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u94	How can it not be lost? That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u95	Don't waste time in court! This proposal that we have made is because there should be two-instant control. At the expense of investment intentions, projects and what Bulgaria will gain from removing the legal order and control of these administrative acts from two instances! We don't want there to be no fast track. On the contrary, we want the fast track, but to maintain the two-installed production. The second instance does not waste time in this procedure. That's not the problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Second line? I can't see. For the doppelganger, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Popov, if I had known that the debate would go this way, I would have brought you five-year-old cases, not one and two.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u98	Just a reference!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u99	Just a reference, yeah. Because the cases weigh heavily, you're right. The lawyers immediately know what to answer. Okay! We really need to think this way. If it's two-way, well, let's do two-way. It's about speed, it's not about institutions. If there is an exact time limit of six months, the problem is solved. Even if it's not six, even if it's nine, he's still determined not to be two years, not five years! For your proposal, I ask you: you are making a proposal for two-instant production and you are excluding objects of municipal importance, why? [[Reply from SG to BSP for Bulgaria.]] How can you not turn it off? I have read your proposal carefully. It concerns exactly what the Commission is dealing with, and not the proposal of colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u100	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Kirilov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u101	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am tempted to mention these and opinions by the previous speakers very quickly and without wasting much time mentioning the following. Instant court proceedings: In the Law on the Construction of the Area, art. Art. 215, Art. 216 "one-installed proceedings'; Opinion No 1 of 2008 of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the European Union confirms the uniformity of administrative proceedings; Law on public procurements........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 88 "97" "one-installed proceedings; Articles 297, 256 and 268 of the DPC "all these three proceedings are one-instantial; Law on the protection of personal data; Law on the protection of disasters; Law on the protection of single-installed proceedings; Law on the Cadaster and the property register "one-instantial proceedings; note, Law on the production of crops and materials of the same-instantial proceedings; Law on the judicial authority "one-instantial proceedings." In the GPC I will not list them, but they are extremely visible, they are defined between 12 and 15 single-instant productions. So, colleagues, let's talk in general, not specifically, and looking for suggestions. I asked for this speech mainly because I was unable to participate as an importer in the second reading in the Committee on the Environment and, how can I say, severely limited my ability to further develop the thesis as an importer, precisely in view of the debates and in view of the applications of environmental organisations in relation to the designation of sites of national importance by an act of the Council of Ministers, it is said that this is hardly subjective action of the Council of Ministers, of the government. That's not true. I would say that this is one of the fundamental manifestations of state and executive power to take such decisions on state property management, including those of national importance. If I could participate in that meeting at the second reading of the Committee on the Environment, I would consider, in the context of the request of these human rights organisations, adding another additional criteria to go alongside the concept of a national object with an act of the Council of Ministers. For this reason, Madam President and honourable Members, I am making an editorial proposal everywhere, in all paragraphs, where the expression "national objects" is used with an act of the Council of Ministers, to add the expression "of strategic importance" to it. If you allow me as a procedure, allow me, give the opportunity, I will offer to your attention the following definition of the additional provision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u102	Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u103	A strategically important object is each site designated as such in the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for reliable efficient and cleaner energy by 2012 and the Integrated Transport Strategy by 2030. If you do not accept this proposal from me, then I am making an alternative proposal to interrupt this plenary sitting, honourable Members, for the extraordinary convening of a meeting of the Committee on the Environment and Waters and for drawing up an additional report on the proposals I have presented to our attention. I allow myself to request such a procedure because I believe that these changes will balance the relationship between us as legislators, between state power and all human rights organizations that will know that they always have one, two or three planning documents in which this object is explicitly described is of strategic importance because... And so on, there is a detailed preliminary argumentation in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u104	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We will discuss with the Chairman your proposal, and I will inform you in a moment. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u105	Dear colleague Kirilov, you are right about these cases, which you quoted in relation to the single-station proceedings. But here the scope, the public interest is on a completely different level, of a completely different magnitude. Such cases, which are of exceptional public interest, exclusively of national importance, of national importance, can not be one-stop production! I will present to you very briefly a list of the contested acts for national sites issued under Section III, Chapter 6 of the Act for the period 2013 - 2017. The date of the contested act, the date of entry into force of the Act. These are the contested acts. Date of issue: construction of the South Stream gas pipeline, for example, 30 August 2013. I don't want to list them all because there's a lot of them. I'm giving it to you as an example so you can see that you're not delaying yourself in the judicial phase of what you're saying. You can't really for this type of national, strategically even add objects to have one-stop production! Let the time limits be made up, yes, but be two-in-one, because, again, you are a fellow lawyer, and you know perfectly well what the function of the cashiership is in the second instance in the administrative process, to monitor the first instance decision with regard to its legality and correctness, not the administrative act itself. It's a first instance job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any other lines? Mr. Kirilov, will you do the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Popov! I will not agree with the general reasoning on the role of the cassation proceedings and I will not go back to the speech at its beginning to argue in which cases the legislator resorts to uniformity. I shall refer in this regard to the Orhu Convention................................................................................................ 9, para. 4 where it is said: a higher command, which can be even arbitration, not only judicial, but can be a simple arbitration, but says: fair control and fast control. And fast! That's what the International Framework says. While we are being monitored by cassation at first instance, or by first instance of appeal? Well, time is running out and here Mr. Tsonev's reasoning as a speaker and as a representative of the National Assembly is absolutely relevant. Time is running for all projects and for those of national importance and for any investment project! We need to create a fair framework for this. Dear Mr. Chairman, in order to save parliamentary time, I will not further develop my thesis with regard to the line made.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u109	I would like to make a procedural proposal, however.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u111	Let us interrupt the discussion on this bill in order to allow the Committee on the Environment to meet within the framework of the rest, discuss these proposals and possibly draw up an additional report. So far, I suggest we move on to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u112	If I may, one more clarification, if you agree, colleagues. [[Noise and lines.]] I will put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's proposal in the hopes of drawing up the additional report. I suggest that after the break, we immediately look at the declaration on Macedonia, which is absolutely consensual, all the parliamentary forces have signed off, and immediately afterwards we proceed with the items on the agenda. That's the offer. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u113	Vote 182 MPs: 174 against 6, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO APPROVE THE ACTION OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON THE FACTS AND FACTS IN THE DISCLOSURE OF THE FACTS PRESENTED TO THE NDK'S TARGET FOR THE SETTLEMENT OF THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION'S COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION AND REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE CONVERSATION OF FACTS AND FACILITIES FOR THE DISCOUNTING OF A NDK'S TARGET FOR THE SETTLEMENT OF THE BULGARIAN PRESENTATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION. Come on in, fellow Members.. Report of the Temporary Commission on the establishment of facts and circumstances. Who's gonna introduce him to us? Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u114	Madam President, I have a procedural proposal. There has been a proposal for an extension of this Temporary Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u115	Colleagues, please take your seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u116	If the reading of the Report starts and then the extension period is voted on and adopted, I ask you what report will we look at? Purely technological, firstly, a continuation must be voted on to extend the deadline. If rejected, the report comes, it is read, debated and accepted or rejected. However, if the proposal for an extension is adopted, what report will we read when the National Assembly has extended the Commission's period of validity? Therefore, my procedural proposal is, firstly, to put to the vote the proposal for an extension of the Commission's duration and, if it is rejected, then the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u117	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Please, colleagues, take your seats! I vote on Mr. Tsonev's procedure, first to vote on the Commission's extension period and then on the report. [[Noise and lines.]] Cancel the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] We are voting on Mr. Yordan Tsonev's procedure first, to vote on the extension period of the Commission and then to read the report. We are voting on a procedural proposal. The vote is 199 MPs: 99 against 89, abstention 11. The proposal under this procedure has not been accepted. It's a re-vote. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u118	Thank you, Madam President. I'm doing a re-voting procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] Here, and Mr. Glauchev has failed to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u119	Revoting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u120	Vote 204 MPs: 100 against 95 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted. Mrs. Yordanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Report on the activities of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances in the spending of funds allocated to the National Palace of Culture for preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u122	Please take your seats in the hall! Mrs. Yordanova, wait a minute. Colleagues, please, let's stop the movement in the hall! [[Noise and lines.]] With that kind of movement, we might as well be cataclysers. Please take your seats, colleagues, and then we will continue reading the report. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u123	During the Commission's mandate, five meetings were held on 6, 11, 18, 24 and 25 July 2017. The Commission's task is to establish facts and circumstances in the spending of funds allocated to the National Palace of Culture for preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. I. Factual surroundings. By a protocol decision of the Council of Ministers of 16 September 2015 as appropriate buildings to hold the events of the Bulgarian Presidency, the National Palace of Culture and the Boyana Residence were designated. With Protocol No 1 of 9 September 2015, signed by Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, acting as an authority exercising the rights of the state in the National Palace of Culture, the Sofia Congress Centre, Veselinov and Valentin Petrov Krastev were elected members of the Board of Directors. By a decision of the Board of Directors of the National Palace of Culture "Sofia Congress Centre" EAD of 9 September 2015 Miroslav Laszlo Borsosh was elected Executive Member (executor), and Valentin Petrov Krastev as Chairman of the Board of Directors. By Order No R-41 of 16 March 2016, the Deputy Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy established an Interdepartmental Working Group (MCG) to prepare the National Palace of Culture as a main building to secure the building fund needed for the Presidency and to conduct coordination procedures for implementing the necessary measures to bring the building fund into line with the Presidency's requirements. Representatives of the political cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, which is led by Mr. Miroslav Borsosh, are involved in the political cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy; of the political cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs; of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, of the Ministry of Finance, of the Chamber of Builders, of the Chamber of Architects. A report by representatives of the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Finance participating in the Interdepartmental Working Group said that on 13 April 2016 a meeting was held at the Ministry of Finance to discuss the activities to be financed for the preparation of the Presidency. During the meeting the National Palace of Culture informed that an order has already been announced for "Supply, installation and commissioning of congress conference equipment" with a estimated value of 3 million. Six hundred thousand. BGN, as well as that the building of the National Palace of Culture is to be declared renovated. It is not clear on what basis the contract for the conference technique is declared and whether it is consistent with anyone. In addition, its scope, quantity and quality should take into account at least the basic parameters set out in the project, which at this stage has not yet been submitted to the Interdepartmental Working Group. The contract for repair and adaptation is undertaken to be agreed in the appropriate order, including with the Interdepartmental Working Group. In the same report, it became clear that on 14 April 2016, the NDK announced an open procedure for projecting, restructuring and adaptation of the main building of the NDK with a estimated value of 12 million. $800,000. lv. This action of the NDK management is not agreed with anyone, which requires appropriate measures to be taken by the NDK principle and the competent authorities, and on 20 April 2016 the Interdepartmental Working Group was convened to discuss the situation. At the meeting the members were first acquainted with the preliminary draft adaptation of the NDK building, stressing that the announcement of public procurement in mid-April was in line with the period of action of the old Public Procurement Act. It is clear that the preliminary project has already been submitted to the Ministry of Interior and the National Assembly and has received their approval, for which no written information and confirmation has been submitted. Due to the many ambiguities and problems in the documentation and the project, which call into question the achievement of the requested effect and response to the needs of the Presidency by letter from Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, was proposed to the management of the National Palace of Culture to terminate the procurement, No 02715-2016-0003 - "Designing, restructuring and adaptation of the main building of the National Palace of Culture." On 9 May 2016, the NPC terminated the procedure. The activities of the Interdepartmental Working Group are prevented from sending non-current, incomplete and incorrect information. In addition, the failure to provide requested documents or opinions to other competent NPC institutions makes the examination of the documentation extremely complex and decision-making by the group. The overall monitoring is that the NDK does not fully use the specialized expertise of the Interdepartmental Working Group and for the entire period of work contests specific requirements and recommendations arising from the regulatory base and the requirements of the Presidency. As a result, the coordination process is extended within two and a half months, during which time all the efforts of the working group are aimed only at the rapid resolution of the serious deficiencies in the documentation submitted by the NDK and its alignment with the requirements of the Presidency. In the course of the talks, the NDK shall send a list of the expenditures incurred and expected for the purposes of the Presidency to be approved by the group. During the examination of the list, serious contradictions and unfounded requests have been identified, which have never been discussed or proposed by the group, as well as those which have nothing to do with the preparation of the Presidency, such as the reconstruction of Hall 2, the stage mechanization of Hall 2, the conversion of the House The Council of Ministers' Decree No 193 of 1 August 2016 approved amendments to the Council of Ministers' budget for 2016 for additional payments in the part of the financing of the budget balance at the expense of the central budget of 17 million. lv. to increase the capital of the National Palace of Culture - Sofia Congress Centre "Sofia" in connection with the financial provision of the restructuring, modernization and adaptation of its main building for the needs of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union for 2018. Decision No 641 of the Council of Ministers of 3 August 2016 gave an agreement to increase the capital of the National Palace of Culture. 17 million. lv. by issuing new name shares with a nominal value of 1000 BGN each by the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, as exercising the rights of the sole owner. Order No 1 of the Council of Ministers of 9 February 2017 changes the authority to exercise the rights of the state as sole owner of the capital of the National Palace of Culture With Protocol No 1 of 24 February 2017, signed by Denitsa Zlateva, Deputy Prime Minister for the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union By a decision of the Board of Directors of the National Palace of Culture "Sofia Congress Centre" EAD of 24 February 2017, Miroslav Borsosh was elected Executive Director, and the same continues to have representative power and functions and Mario Anastasov as Chairman of the Board of Directors. By Protocol No 2 of 3 March 2017, signed by Denitsa Zlateva, Deputy Prime Minister for the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, as an authority exercising the rights of the state in the National Palace of Culture, he was released as a member of the Board of Directors Plamen Nikiforov Djurov because of his refusal to take office for health reasons and was appointed Svetlindara Petrova Encheva as a member of the Board of Directors. With a letter. No 00909 of 29 March 2017 according to the description of the NPC and the ICC. No 11.00-95 of 30 March 2017 according to the description of the Council of Ministers Mr. Miroslav Borsosh provides to the attention of Ms. Denitsa Zlateva with decisions of the Interdepartmental Working Group on the ongoing monitoring of the implementation of the activities for the reconstruction and adaptation of the NDK building, with the relevant Annexes thereto: - Report on the results of the Board of Directors on 15 March 2017, which justifies the need for the provision of 14 million. 677 428.10 BGN with VAT for carrying out additional activities; - Report on the justification for the need for a change in the scope for the implementation of the project "Design, restructuring and adaptation of the main building of the National Palace of Culture for the needs of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union - 2018." 427 thousand. 245.09 BGN, with VAT for carrying out additional activities; - Report on the results of the working group for the construction of the Press Centre of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which justifies the need to provide 1 million. Eight hundred and 773.78 BGN, with VAT for carrying out additional activities; - Report on the necessary additional funds of the NDK on the preparation of the Presidency of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Council of the European Union in 2018, which justifies the need to provide 11 million. 103,000. BGN 412. VAT of which: - Seven million. Twenty-three thousand. BGN 541. represent a financial deficit when starting construction and repair activities. This means that, on the one hand, there is a financial deficit of 3 million. 962,000. £344. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 962,000. £344. with VAT and the vote of the Council of Ministers by decision No 641 of 3 August 2016, an increase in the capital of the NDK by issuing name shares for a total of 17 million. On the other hand, there is a deficit of 3 million. 61,000. BGN 197. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, buildings, 798 thousand. £800. and declared a public procurement procedure and won a contractor at a price of 19 million. 859 thousand. BGN 997 of which: - 383,000. BGN 994. with VAT for digital photographing and drawing up a technical passport of the main building of the National Palace of Culture; - Seventy-eight thousand. £600. with VAT for monitoring the energy efficiency and certification of the main building of the NPC; - 840,000. lv. VAT for current and emergency construction and repair works; - 214,000. 922 lv. with VAT for spectacular facade lighting of the main building of the National Palace of Culture; - Two million. 238 thousand. Three hundred and fifty-five. for designing a conceptual model, design, execution, delivery and installation of stage mechanics, lighting, sound and chairs of Hall 2 of the National Palace of Culture; Three hundred and twenty-four thousand. lv. for the design and implementation of the Communication Centre for the Presidency. In total, the additional funds requested amounted to 38 million. 65,000. BGN 856.97 with VAT. Protocol No 3 of 2 May 2017, signed by Denitsa Zlateva Deputy Prime Minister for the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency, acting as the authority exercising the rights of the State in the National Palace of Culture, approved the annual financial statement for 2016, the National Palace of Culture certified by the appointments of the registered auditor IsaOdit., Ltd. and grants discharge for their activities in 2016, the members of the Board of Directors Valentin Krastev, Miroslav Borsosh and Lyudmil Veselinov. The independent auditor, IsaOdit Ltd, validated NDK's annual financial statement for 2016, with an expression of qualified opinion, as I quote, did not receive sufficient confirmations from external sources of information about the balances on the accounts of the estimates with counterparties and were unable to be reasonably convinced, including by applying alternative audit procedures on the reliability of claims and liabilities at the date of the balance sheet. We were not able to determine whether adjustments would be made in relation to the reported or unaccounted estimates and the items contained in the statement of financial position, the statement of profit or loss and the other comprehensive income, the statement of changes in equity and the statement of cash flows. Order No 3 of the Council of Ministers of 10 May 2017 changes the authority to exercise the rights of the state as sole owner of the capital of NDK by the Deputy Prime Minister in preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency. By Protocol No 3 of 16 May 2017, signed by Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018, as a representative of the State as sole owner of the capital of the National Palace of Culture, have been released as members of the Board of Directors Mario Blagoev Anastasov and Svetlindara Petrova Encheva, without granting them discharge, and elected Borislav Slavchev Velkov and Lazarinka Georgieva Stoichkova as members of the Board of Directors. By decision of the Board of Directors of the National Palace of Culture of 17 May 2017, Miroslav Borshos was elected Executive Director, with the latter continuing to have representative power and function and Borislav Slavchev Velkov as Chairman of the Board of Directors. By letter No 03-325 of 29 May 2017 to Mrs. Milka Gecheva, Head of the National Building Control Directorate, Minister Lilyana Pavlova asked for a check to establish the lawful implementation of the construction works of the construction so far. The conclusion of the DNCC's report states that the internal kitchen conversions on the 7th floor, of a restaurant with the auxiliary rooms on the 8th floor and of the newly designated WCs on the 8th floor, the reconstruction of the interior heating, ventilation and sewerage installation, the reconstruction of the internal, building plumbing installation, the separation of the plumbing from the fire-fighting installation, in the presence of a categorically constructive opinion that there are no structural elements of the building affected, constitute a fourth category, according to art. 137, para. 1, t. 4, b. "E' of the Law on Construction in the Area and may continue after proper issue of construction papers. The internal renovations of the first to fourth category buildings, including those which do not affect their construction, are fourth category constructions and the control of their implementation is entirely within the competence of the municipal administration, according to art. 223 of the LU, and their implementation is within the competence of the authority to grant the building permit in accordance with the provisions of art. 177, para. 1 and para. 3 of ZUT. By letter No 03-336 of 29 May 2017, to Mr. Georgi Nachev, Director of the State Financial Inspection Agency, Minister Pavlova requested the verification of the procurement and procurement activities: under contract No T-00859 of 24 October 2016, with Amendments to the contracts concluded on the basis of art. 116, para. 1, t. 2 of the Public Procurement Act, but clearly from the opinions of the Public Procurement Agency, not all of those grounds may qualify as "unforeseen circumstances' within the meaning of § 2, item 2. 27 of the additional provisions of the CPO. With a letter. No 03-00-11 of 13 June 2017, Mr. Nachev informed Minister Pavlova that by Order No ФК 10 532 of 8 June 2017, a financial inspection was awarded at the National Palace of Culture on the legality of the contracts awarded in 2016, public procurement, verification of the execution of the contracts concluded, grounds for amending the contracts and payments made thereto. At present, the financial inspection has not been completed and a report on its results has not been submitted. In my opinion with ex. No K-13 of 10 May 2017, under contract with "Galchev Engineering" Ltd. with subject "Design, restructuring and adaptation of the main building of the National Palace of Culture" worth 16 million. 549 thousand. 997, 99 leva. without VAT, or 19 million. 859 thousand. BGN 997,59. with VAT and duration for the implementation of the activities 30 September 2017, the Public Procurement Agency concludes that for two groups of activities an amendment of the contract may take place. The first group of activities is due to identified inaccuracies in terms of the amounts and types of MRI included in the investment project. The investment project was drawn up on the basis of a project which was carried out without existing construction papers for part. Architecture, resulting in certain volumes of capital, especially in the hidden infrastructure of the building. To the extent that the design is within the scope of the AOP contract, it is assumed that the award was not objectively possible to accurately provide for all the necessary types of work and their quantities. The second group of activities is related to the provisions received following the conduct of the contract by different institutions involved in ensuring the Presidency in relation to which changes in the investment intentions of the contracting entity are required. Most of the letters received relate to the need to provide additional security measures, a higher level defined by the competent state authorities. Another part concerns requirements related to the translation of meetings, provision of functional needs related to the organization of humanopototics and so on. On this basis, the Public Procurement Agency concludes that, without their implementation, the building cannot fulfil all the requirements relating to securing the Presidency. In so far as the cited documents have been issued after 24 October 2016, it can be assumed that the requirements which they have submitted have become known to the contracting authority after signing the contract. It is disturbing the finding of the Public Procurement Agency that the lost works on the architectural part of the main building of the NDK can hardly be defined as a circumstance unknown to the contracting entity, since it is assumed that the latter were also necessary in the preparation of the preliminary design of the site. In addition, the verification in the archives was carried out in November 2016, i.e. after the initiation of the procedure for signing the basic contract. In addition, the report explains in detail the additional activities necessary for the implementation of the project, that quantities and volumes of CMR are recorded, which do not relate to the hidden infrastructure of the building, such as a ramp for disabled, interior doors, sanitary doors, etc. With regard to that need to replace technical specifications due to changes in the relevant regulations, there is no specific information on what the amendments are expressed, respectively, having entered into force after the open procedure, resulting in the conclusion that, in its conclusion, the Public Procurement Agency summarises that there are insufficient arguments for the implemented activities, indicating that they are the result of unforeseen circumstances within the meaning of Paragraph 2, i.e. 27 of the additional provisions of the Public Procurement Act. In this regard, the NDK should have further arguments and evidence that the activities discussed are not the consequence of subjective deficiencies in the preparation of the project or other weaknesses in the conduct of the main order. In my opinion with ex. No K-15 of 19 May 2017, under contract with "Dinacorde Bulgaria" with subject "Providement, installation and commissioning of congress conference equipment" worth 3 million. 106,000. And 629.80 leva. without VAT, or 3 million. 727 thousand. BGN 955.76. with VAT, the Public Procurement Agency concludes that, with the change in the basic contract at issue, its value increased by 1 million. 548 thousand. And BGN 144.82. without VAT, the requirement of art. 116, para. 1, t. 2 of the Public Procurement Act, i.e. due to unforeseen circumstances, there has been a need to carry out additional supplies, services not included in the initial procurement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u124	Mrs. Yordanova just...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u125	The reasons why the conclusion of an additional agreement has been initiated is the need established after the conclusion of the basic contract, the inclusion of new...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u126	Mrs. Yordanova!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u127	Let me finish my sentence. Can I have my coworkers? Madam President!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u129	... and volumes of equipment in additional halls and premises to build an International Press Centre and integrate them into the common system.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u130	Mrs. Yordanova, is there much more of the report?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u131	Yeah. The report is long, detailed at the insistence, including with additional parts of the colleagues who were representatives of the BSP in the committee of inquiry, so it is quite detailed. I ask for patience for my fellow Members on the left to agree with their representatives in the Commission. I think it's interesting for everyone, we wanted to get to that point, rushing doesn't lead to good.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u132	Colleagues from the parliamentary group of Coalition for Bulgaria want us to use our 11:30 break because they have scheduled events, so at 11.30 am I give a break.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u133	All right, we're done here.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u134	At 12.05, we'll continue the report again. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u135	We are continuing the meeting, honourable Members. Please invite the Quaestors to the Chamber. There has been a request for a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group. [[GERB lines.]] When there's a request from a group, I should give them the floor right away. You have the floor, Mr. Tomov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Honorable Meeting! I invite you to welcome an organization, a remarkable organization of the apostles, as expressed by Western and mediocre European Metropolitan Antony, noting that courage is a Christian virtue the Association of Bulgarian Schools abroad, which aims to protect the national identity and unite Bulgarians living abroad through education. For me personally, this is perhaps the strongest, most important organization to preserve our language abroad. The Association was established only ten years ago by 14 Bulgarians, most of whom are my friends. I would call them the emissaries. Yesterday they had a party at the Aula of Sofia University. There was a brilliant speech from their leader. They were at Patriarch Neofit's. They're at the Rila Monastery today. Let me take you back, very far back. The date is January 30, 1873 and the poet's hand writes the title: Will it be, and when will it be to see my dear homeland again, which has become so many years since I have not seen it?! Far from her years of life I spilled years of the best, spilled them, and why? What have I done in my life? My dreams didn't come true, my wishes didn't come true, and here I am now what I often did from my childhood in front of the shack that I've spent my whole life working to lift it up all day, but it's not a joke hut that I've spent my whole life trying to raise it up, but I've spent my whole life trying to build it up for not one day, but for tens of years trying to raise it up. Oh, yeah, I want to go there, I want to go there for a child's heart, I want to, and I can't. Give me, give me my dear Motherland or let me die for her! The author of these lines will become a Bulgarian MP like us, but then he invested 10 years of his life away from the home end of the city in Constantinople, the biggest Bulgarian city then. And he writes in his newspaper "Macedonia" and I have photographed this at the time where he did it that about 150 thousand Bulgarians are in the capital of the Empire. There are probably fewer, but among them there are hardly 15 thousand, who are recognized as Bulgarians and of them there are hardly 15 clean Bulgarian families. He works among them. These are abadwigs, merchants, bakers, servants, cooks, argati, shepherds, cattlemen, tobacco makers, masters, an amazing and unique view of the living Bulgarian museum in Constantinople. This man was called by Konstantin Irechek the Bulgarian Odyssey. Of course, you all know it's about Petko Ratchev Slaveykov. And Toncho Zhechev, perhaps the greatest Bulgarian I've ever communicated with, with whom we used to film together in Tsargrad the Passions of Bulgarian Easter, spoke with love, like this, about these typical Bulgarian peasants who lived in a covetous and thriftly, as he said, looking with fear in God's in this world city, living with the thought of their villages, with the memory of domestic coziness, of women's flattery and father's hearth. And there was no need for them to make a trip around the world to discover their Iztaka. Souls never left her. Today millions of Bulgarians, no one knows their exact number, but in my opinion these are perhaps the most vibrant, the brave, the smartest, the most powerful part of our people, I would call them the avant-garde of the nation, are scattered around the world. Welcome to Yakoruda, a woman told me recently, my children are in London. In Razlog, another bragged to me that his child was an engineer in Formula One. My first friend translates to Barack Obama at Camps David and the Secretary General of the United Nations. And my director's son is filming Johnny Deep and Robert De Level. The operator's son became a senior official of Google in New York. This list can be continued, but the big question is how many of them remain Bulgarians? How many of them will their children know Bulgarian and will be called Bulgarians? A remarkable woman, I had the happiness to see them the last few nights while they were here in Sofia, Mrs. Snezhina Mecheva, Director of the Bulgarian school, Ivan Stanchov, Director of our Embassy in London, a person with whom every nation can be proud, said so: "We realized the need to cover the children as early as possible because the first years the young are popikovtsi and if they do not have contact with their native language, they become foreigners, and the Bulgarian becomes unrecognizable to them. The stressful thing was that Bulgarian parents came to the school and both spoke Bulgarian at home and their children born in England responded in English. This is the melting of Bulgaria. This scared all of us. " She said and gave us confidence that the degeneration must be fought against. And here we already lived as Paisivians, and we had to work as such without fail. And as often happens with us when this Association of Bulgarian Schools was established abroad, the state did not want to have a dialogue with them. Here I would like to note the huge role of a remarkable man - Ambassador Ivan Stanchev. When schools were shut down to diplomatic missions because the state had no money, this remarkable man, a living revivalist, a teacher of nobility restores the school, opens it for every Bulgarian child, gives you a sum of his money, makes a chapel in the yard of the embassy, makes Chitalishtes. Provides support for the school mainly with its own money and donations. This is, in fact, a teacher, a patron and a confidant. The interesting thing is that the Ministry of Education refused support. You're not schools! Then Snow Mecheva says, "Call us sanctuaries!" Things are different today, of course. We have a National Program "Born language and culture abroad" and we have nearly 400 schools on all continents. But given that we are talking about millions of Bulgarians outside, schools should grow many times, and the means for their support, because in the end these people write the history of Bulgaria outside Bulgaria. I would also like to turn my attention to a very interesting, remarkable woman. She's been in Chicago for over 20 years. Seven days a week she teaches the children five days she teaches them to become Americans, two days she teaches them from Americans to become perfect Bulgarians. She made two outstanding forums of Bulgarian schools at the highest level in Chicago, and this year she performed one of the most significant cases for the Bulgarian language abroad...................... by her and her colleagues from the school.................................................................the highest status for the Bulgarian language in the United States of Illinois. It's the first time you've had exams. Mrs. Ivanova told me that the children worked on these exams during a four-hour exam. They allow their students to have a bilingual stamp placed in the secondary education diploma, which at B1 level and B2 is certified in Bulgarian. This stamp gives advantages when applying to colleges, higher education institutions, and also when taking a job. Note: the exams were carried out by Sofia University Kliment Ohridski, the language education department. According to the example of Boyanka Ivanova, the Association has filed a petition in the European Parliament for the introduction of Bulgarian language exams in the training systems of the member states of the European Union. Here is one of the main priority tasks in front of all of us by taking over next year the Bulgarian language with equal rights with languages such as English, French, German, Italian in foreign education systems. My fellow Members, I am convinced that the 21st century will be a battle, a war of identities, and we need to protect our national identity with teeth and claws. I hope that it will not be far away the day when from this definitely high tribune of the nation an alumni from these schools will address you with their plans for the welfare of Bulgaria, for how it should be in the 21st century. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u137	We move on to the Draft Declaration on the signing of the Treaty of Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia. Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I propose to invite Prime Minister Boyko Borisov to the Chamber during the discussion and adoption of the declaration. Dear colleagues, very rarely in this House we have reached agreement in the name of national interest. You must remember that we started this session with a declaration exactly for Macedonia when they invaded the parliament. There was violence there. Then we proposed to you and we all united in condemning such violence and a desire to return democratic principles to the Macedonian Parliament. The treaty that we are going to discuss today and the Declaration that we are going to adopt is historic for Bulgaria. I hope everyone understands that. Worked by many governments successively from different colors. The treaty is important for Bulgaria and for good neighbourly relations in the Balkans. At our request, we asked for it to be imported here, where it is the place of discussion in the Bulgarian Parliament, in the parliamentary republic. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u139	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u140	Mr. Borisov asked for, sought through mutual compromises, and found our national agreement and support for this treaty with the Declaration which we have drawn up together, but with his behaviour today he is about to blow up this national agreement. Once again, at such a historic time, the prime minister cannot show disrespect to the parliamentary republic and to us who have united to send it there with one force of the parliamentary republic to sign this Treaty. I propose that Mr. Borisov be invited here at this time. If he refuses to come to the Bulgarian Parliament, I declare that I am withdrawing my signature on behalf of the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria. Guilty for blowing up our fragile agreement will be the Bulgarian Prime Minister because of the disrespect of the Bulgarian Parliament [[GERB noise and lines]] From which he asked for support.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u141	Thank you. I'll contact the Prime Minister. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u142	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thank you for the beginning of Mrs Cornelia Ninova's speech. Indeed, we have reached a consensus, which is a bit of an opportunity in the current parliament to reduce this tension and not to participate in its provocation.. I assure you that from the talks I had this morning, the Prime Minister is traveling to the Bulgarian Parliament so that he can join this debate. [[Loud applause from GERB.]] And I think, Mrs. Ninova, that if you had asked if the Prime Minister was planning to come, we would have told you that he was traveling to the Bulgarian Parliament and would not have needed this emotion and this emotional charge that you gave in the opposite direction. Mr. Chairman, I assume that any moment now the Prime Minister will come in and there is no obstacle to starting the subject on the ground. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u143	Here's a personal explanation, although I can't give you a personal explanation. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: "In the way we conduct it!".]] Okay, the way you're leading me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u144	Mr. Glauchev, please answer Mr. Tsvetanov. Did I ask you twice today: will the Prime Minister come, and did you answer me twice today? Mr. Tsvetanov, do not think that on such an important subject that we have reached a difficult agreement, I or my colleagues will abuse, make policy, or block this process that has been going on for years. I have asked the first among the equal: will the Prime Minister come? I've received an answer: no. So I made a statement or it's coming or we're pulling out. Since he is on his way here, I ask that we start with another point until he arrives and then move on with Macedonia. [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u145	Shall we proceed with the Commission's report, then?! Today we've made so many changes in the program that... [[Noise, lines and laughter.]] Mrs. Yordanova, please proceed with the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In accordance with Order No RD-11/26.05.2017 a Council was formed to the Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018, as an expert advisory unit to assist him in matters relating to the management, monitoring and control of the activities of design, reconstruction and adaptation of the main building of the National Palace of Culture for the needs of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018. With a letter in my letter. No 03-343/29.05.2017 from the Executive Director of the National Palace of Culture to the Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 as an authority exercising the rights of the State as sole owner of the company's capital, according to Order No 3 of the Council of Ministers since 2017, documentation has been received showing that there is a shortage of funds of approximately 36 million. lv. Following an analysis of the documentation provided and the financial estimates and justification for each of the activities requested by the Executive Director of the NDK, it was found that the funds requested by the Executive Director of the NDK, amounting to approximately 36 million. lv. they should not be approved at that amount. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Chairman, please bring order to the court! The colleagues insisted so much on this important topic, and they don't want to hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u147	Honourable Members, please be quiet in this Chamber! Mrs. Yordanova, you have the right to resent me. Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u148	In a joint report of the Minister of Finance and the Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency, attached to a letter with ex. No 03-407 of 05 June 2017, is proposed to the Council of Ministers to increase the capital of the National Palace of Culture. lv. This amount shall include: 1. 7 million. lv. with VAT to cover the entire value of the contracts already concluded, as the previous increase in the capital of the NDK by 17 million. lv. BGN made in 2016 is insufficient to cover the payments on them. 2. Funds up to 50% according to the requirements of art. 116, para. 2 of the Public Procurement Act from the value of the concluded contract No T-00859 of 24 October 2016 between the Executive Director of the National Palace of Culture and the Executive Director of the National Palace of Culture. 3. Funds up to 50% according to the requirements of art. 116, para. 2 of the Public Procurement Act, from the value of the contract No T-760 of 05.11.2016 between the Executive Director of the National Palace of Culture and the Executive Director of the National Palace of Culture and Dinacord. 4. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. with VAT for the conduct of a public procurement under the Law on Public Procurement and the choice of contractor for a single homogeneous global security system. By Decree No 109 of the Council of Ministers of 9 June 2017 the amendments to the Ministry's budget for the Bulgarian for additional payments in the part of the financing of the budget balance at the expense of the central budget of 28 million were approved. lv. to increase the capital of the National Palace of Culture (National Palace of Culture) Sofia Congress Centre (Sofia) in connection with the financial provision of the conversion, modernization and adaptation of its main building. By decision No 310 of the Council of Ministers of 9 June 2017 agreed to increase the capital of NDK of BGN 28 million. by issuing new name shares with a nominal value of 1000 BGN. each Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 as exercising the rights of the sole owner. Order No 4 of the Council of Ministers of 28 June 2017 changes the authority to exercise the rights of the State as sole owner of the capital of the National Palace of Culture by the Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 of the Minister of Culture, a position to be performed by Mr. Boil Banov. By Protocol No. PR 19 of 30 June 2017, signed by Boil Banov, Minister of Culture, exercising the rights of the State in the capital of the National Palace of Culture, were released as members of the Board of Directors "Lazarinka Stoichkova, Borislav Velkov and Miroslav Borsosh, without granting them discharge, and elected five members of the Board of Directors according to art. 26, para. 1 of the Statute of the company Krasimir Petkov, Borislav Velkov, Tatiana Tsvetanova, Rositsa Istilyanova Bacheva, Tsvetanova and Angel Ivanov Mitev. [[In plenary goes Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u149	The Prime Minister is already in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u150	Mrs. Ninova's gone?! [[Radio, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u151	Please tell Mrs. Ninova that we can continue to discuss the declaration. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. The Prime Minister is here as you requested! Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Ninova! Normally, I knew the declaration was due tomorrow. In my entire plan for tomorrow, that was the first point of viewing her, being here. Mr. Tsvetanov called me. I think I got here quick. Once again, I appeal to Parliament to support this declaration. It passed the Committees on Foreign Policy, everyone is familiar with it. It would be nice to have a mandate to sign this contract. I am convinced that each of you understands that it is better to have a stable Republic of Macedonia that has the prospect that people in this country have the prospect of both NATO and the European Union. You'll have a great deal. Thank you. From us, from the government, if you think this can be done. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u153	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. On behalf of the importers, the word is given by the People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u154	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the spirit of constructiveism, I can actually confirm everything that has been said by the Prime Minister and at the beginning by Mrs Cornelia Ninova. Yesterday we managed to reach full consensus on the declaration, which will be put to the vote today, in order to give full support to the Bulgarian government to continue all actions related to the Republic of Macedonia. I will read the declaration, which found full consensus and was signed by all the chairmen of parliamentary groups, for which I thank you. "Declaration" on the signing of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia. Leaded by: - continuity in the negotiation process under the Treaty, conducted by a number of Bulgarian governments representing the entire political spectrum in the Republic of Bulgaria; - the quest for further development of good neighbourliness and friendship between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia; - the need to develop cooperation in all areas based on mutual respect, trust, understanding and respect for the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia; - the desire to activate economic and cultural relations and close contacts between the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia; - understanding that the European perspective of the Republic of Macedonia is a guarantee for the security, stability and prosperity of the region, National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria: 1. Appreciates the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia to finalise the negotiations on the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation and expects the signing to take place in accordance with the preliminary arrangements between the two countries. 2. Expresses its readiness to launch ratification procedures as soon as possible after its signature; 3. Expects the Treaty to put on a stable, principled and pragmatic basis relations between the two countries and be of direct benefit to their citizens. 4. It proposes that the Council of Ministers should submit to the National Assembly an annual report on the implementation of the Treaty after its signature, ratification and entry into force. Importers: the Chairs of all parliamentary groups represented. As a representative of the importers, I would like to say a few words as motives for everything we need to do today and what will outline the true European perspective of the Republic of Macedonia. Bulgaria follows policies of good neighbourly and friendly relations and comprehensive cooperation with the Republic of Macedonia as an independent and sovereign state. On 20 and 21 June this year a delegation of the government of the Republic of Macedonia led by Prime Minister Zaev made an official visit to Bulgaria at the invitation of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Boyko Borisov. In the framework of the meetings, positive messages were sent to open a new page in bilateral relations. Our relations are based on consistent policy and continuity of all Bulgarian governments from January 15, 1992, when Bulgaria first recognised Macedonia's independence. On 22 February 1999, a declaration was signed in Sofia by the Prime Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia, expressing the common will to develop comprehensive friendly relations and to strengthen understanding, peace and stability in the region of Southeast Europe. The declaration adopted a mutually acceptable language clause addressing the issue of language dispute when signing bilateral documents. This opened the way for the construction of the bilateral contractual and legal base. For its part, the Republic of Macedonia declares that nothing in its Constitution can and should not be interpreted in such a way as to form a basis for intervention in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria in order to protect the status and rights of persons who are not nationals of the Republic of Macedonia. The conclusion of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation is among the foreign policy priorities of the Bulgarian state. In 2012, Bulgaria proposed the signing of a Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation and defined its signing as a precondition for the Bulgarian support for further progress of the European integration process of the Republic of Macedonia. The last 12th round of negotiations on the Treaty was held in the period 8 July this year, at which the Bulgarian proposals were adopted by the Macedonian country to the maximum extent. We expect the Treaty to be signed during the upcoming visit of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov of the Republic of Bulgaria to Macedonia next week. We, the MPs, are convinced that signing the Treaty of Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation will be a success not only for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov and his government, but also for the long-standing efforts of all Bulgarian governments, MPs who have actively participated in this process, all politicians, public figures and Bulgarian diplomacy. The treaty will be a legally binding document between the two countries governing lasting and stable good neighbourly relations and seeking to develop cooperation between them. We need broad parliamentary support, which is an important condition for signing the Treaty. We expect concrete action by Prime Minister Zaev's government on the path of the Euro-Atlantic perspective for Macedonia and believe that the Treaty will create a pragmatic basis for building good neighbourly relations between the two countries, which will bring direct benefits to the citizens of the two countries. Parliamentary support from all political forces will be clear proof of our country's consistent foreign policy towards the Republic of Macedonia. The adoption of a declaration by the National Assembly will confirm and support continuity and consistency in the national policy towards Macedonia. Promoting good neighbourly relations and inclusive regional cooperation are one of the European Union's objectives in the process of integration of the Western Balkans. The future and European perspective of the Western Balkans will be one of the main points on the agenda of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union next year. In May 2018, we will also host the summit of the European Union and the Western Balkans. My fellow Members, I believe that with these historical facts and all that all Bulgarian politicians have done, despite the differences led only by the national interest, I believe that today, with the declaration that we are going to vote, we will be able to really strengthen the diplomatic tone that Bulgaria has always had and has established politically against the Republic of Macedonia and we will outline the serious real perspective for Macedonia in the European Union and the Euro-Atlantic orientation. Thank you and wish you luck! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u155	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. The debates are open. Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Borisov, Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I start by saying that today's discussion should be a discussion of well - measured words, because everything that is being said today, especially today, can and will probably be used to strain further tensions here, and probably above all in Skopje. Perhaps you, Mr. Prime Minister, did not use the exact term, but still this declaration should not be perceived as giving a mandate by the National Assembly for the signing of the treaty, as you did not ask us for such a term. Consider it a political request rather from the Bulgarian Parliament that it stands behind your visit and the actions you will take there. First of all, we from the BSP for Bulgaria and we appreciate the efforts made by both governments, both the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia to finalise the negotiations. The current result is not a reason for some triumphalism, as it was achieved above all because it changed power in Skopje and there came into government a government that set for its purpose a radical change of both internal but foreign policy and made a clear statement that it wanted to change relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia. We believe that this is a unique chance and it must be used as much as possible and we hope that you will indeed do so. Signing the contract is one step to this. Secondly, from an internal political point of view, we appreciate the fact that you have complied with our request to present the contract to Parliament, to discuss this topic and to become part of the National Assembly's agenda before signing it. Let us clarify, of course, the important issues need to be discussed here, but this is a process. The signing of this treaty and today's discussion is part of the process that will continue with ratification, that is, today's discussion will not materially enter into the clauses, the treaty. This discussion will have to be done in depth when it is signed, when it is tabled by the Council of Ministers on ratification, and we will have the opportunity in the Committee on Foreign Policy, and here in Parliament, to continue what we are starting today. Of course, we cannot fail to note that yesterday there was some confusion probably, both Bulgarian media and Bulgarian citizens received access to the text not from the Bulgarian government, but from the government of the Republic of Macedonia. This mistake was corrected a little later, but such situations, I would call confusion, should be a lesson and should not be repeated. Thirdly, we hope that the majority will appreciate the constructive approach of the BSP for Bulgaria. We really want the Bulgarian Prime Minister to go to Skopje and with the weight of the entire parliament behind him. More than once, we have given a hand, despite everything, in the name of national interests, we are doing it today. This action is not, in principle, blanquet support for the overall government policy of the Republic of Macedonia. It is an element, as I said, this policy, which is key for Bulgaria, will be an element of our parliamentary control and discussions from now on. Fourth, signing the Friendship, Neighborhood and Cooperation Treaty is a framework that must be filled with content. Otherwise, there will be just a sum of good wishes, as there are inevitable wishes for such a contract, but they must be developed. We hold from now on the annual review of the implementation of the contract, which is provided for as a clause in the project, to include the Bulgarian Parliament, that is, this review, as we state in today's declaration, which is still only one intention, but we hope that you will comply with it, will lead to the fact that an annual report on the implementation of this Treaty will be submitted to the Bulgarian Parliament, when it is signed and ratified and entered into force, so that we, the MPs on this key issue can have the floor, our assessment and, accordingly, our proposals. In fifth place, we ask you for concrete actions to show that the citizens of the two countries will have specific direct benefits of this treaty, and the claimed reversal of a new page in relations will not only be good intentions, but will also have a real result.. Infrastructure, energy, trade, investment, new border crossings, cooperation in the field of education and culture. Without strong and rapid progress, we will not achieve the long-term goals of strengthening the links between people on both sides of the border. I believe that you understand this.. it remains to go to Skopje, to do your job there and we expect you again in the Bulgarian Parliament after this visit, after the talks and the things that will be done to inform us about the outcome and to prepare the next steps together. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u157	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Are there any lines? No. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u158	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedom supports the government's efforts to establish good neighbourly relations for the conclusion of this treaty, whose lack and need felt for years in relations between the two neighbouring countries. Relations between peoples and countries in the Balkans are historically burdened and emotionally motivated. The more historically burdened and emotionally motivated our relationship with the Republic of Macedonia! However, we at the DPS believe that historical burden and emotional motivation interfere with good relationships, hinders the development of countries, hinders the well-being of peoples. That is why we have always supported the institutions, and we support you today, Mr. Prime Minister, and the Council of Ministers in our efforts to put our relations on a pragmatic basis, on the clarity of the objectives, and on a community of interests. The movement for rights and freedoms has always believed that all Western Balkan countries should be members of the European Union and NATO, especially Macedonia. We have been worried about the event from a few months ago and we are of opinion, and we have expressed it from this tribune and in the media that the solution to the problem there and in other countries of our region is in their membership in the North Atlantic Pact and in the family of the European Union. Bulgaria in this situation can play the role of mediator, the role of catalyst of these processes. We see that you are making these efforts and welcoming them, so we will support each step in this direction. It is extremely important that what will happen between our countries of Bulgaria and Macedonia, and our peoples, really be in the interests of the peoples of the two countries, to have good economic ties, starting with common projects, cross-border and so on, not to enter into the whole problem and the whole spectrum of relations, are well listed in the Treaty. Our parliamentary group has become acquainted with the Treaty and we believe that this is a step in the right direction. We therefore support the Declaration and will participate in ratification after the Treaty is signed. We wish success in the field of climate improvement in the Balkans, because the historical emotional node must be solved with such steps! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u159	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u160	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, to say that the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" will support the proposed Declaration. That's why we put our signatures under it for a reason. I would like to congratulate the entire Bulgarian government, the Prime Minister, and, of course, the Foreign Ministry for the success of the efforts of many Bulgarian governments. In almost the entire transition period, there was experience, there were contact points where we were getting closer, and we were moving away from our neighbouring state of Macedonia, but ultimately as a result of these efforts made by all these governments, we have now reached the completed version and the forthcoming signing of the Treaty of Friendship and Good Neighborhood between the two countries. This treaty undoubtedly opens up ways for many new opportunities between Bulgaria and Macedonia, and they were mentioned by the representatives of the other parliamentary groups who spoke before me. We have already seen concrete actions in the direction of infrastructure projects, the allocation of funds by the European Union to open transport links and corridors with Bulgaria. This thing is indisputable, and it's going to go deeper from here to there. But this Treaty, in addition to the general arrangements that would have been signed in any treaty with another state between Bulgaria and another country, is undoubtedly a special Treaty, Bulgaria and Macedonia must have special relations and relations. They are conditioned by their common historical destiny, by our common historical path, our common history. That is why I have said and welcomed the efforts and success in achieving the final version of the Treaty, because this set-up has found a very serious place in the Treaty with Macedonia, precisely our common history. What does Bulgaria gain, and what does Macedonia gain from this Treaty? This, I think, is very clear to everyone in this House, but we must also take into account that our neighbouring country declares that there are no claims, there are no, first, territorial and second place claims concerning people who are not citizens of the Republic of Macedonia. This is also in the spirit of pan-European trends and pan-European practices, and we are therefore extremely satisfied with the Treaty. The question of the past. Let us really leave this matter to historians in the 21st century. The matter must not be politicized. He in Bulgaria, as you can see, is not on a political basis, but until recently in Macedonia was mainly used anti-Bulgarianism and the language of hatred as the main instrument of political formations there, which are in opposition now. We therefore feel that it is extremely important that we come to an end to hate speech. You know how many films, how many shows, how many media appearances were directed with sharp arrows against Bulgaria, against everything Bulgarian. Last but not least, let us not forget that the modern dimensions in the Republic of Macedonia are very different from those that were 10, 15 or 20 years ago. Let us not forget that there are nearly 120 thousand people living in Macedonia who have Bulgarian identity documents, meaning they have Bulgarian citizenship, and these people want the country in which they live to have their European prospects, to have their European future, to have their normal relations with the nearest country, namely this is Bulgaria. So once again, I declare on behalf of the United Patriarchs, without unnecessary pathos, without expecting that the problems that have been accumulated decades will be solved as with a magic wand and tomorrow will be wonderful. Of course, this is only the beginning of a process that will go on for many years. But this treaty laid the foundation for the normalization of relations, for the eradication of this ice period, in which we had little contact with the Republic of Macedonia and would open the way for the triumph of historical truth. Then, when there are contacts, when there are opportunities to get acquainted with the position and the truth, I think you have a huge opportunity to understand who you are, where you come from and what your national identity is. Thank you. [[Applause from OP and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u161	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, dear fellow journalists! I stress it because I remember January Day in 1992, when I personally changed the front page of the newspaper "Democracy" to open a place and there to write the title: "Bulgaria recognised Macedonia." This was with the government of Philip Dimitrov. As you can see, 25 years have passed since then, and here is a government that is now making a real, serious and significant step in normalising our relations with Macedonia. We admitted it first, but it took a quarter of a century to get to some major step. I think there have been a lot of gaps in the actions of a number of governments over the past 25 years, and we haven't behaved properly. During this time, our neighbours used the situation they entered economically, they acted pragmatically and although they did not recognize Macedonia's name, there were their banks, and business, and relations and everything, while we were playing a little bit of Grumpy Petko. I think today's government policy is pragmatic. I am pleased that we "United Patriarchs" are participating in this government, and this is the moment that this Treaty is being obtained. We support the Declaration, of course, some of these are who we signed first, and we will insist, we will want these relations to develop, not to remain with just one treaty, not to remain with just one solemn handshake, but indeed Bulgaria and Macedonia to be in communication with economic, cultural, social, whatever. Only then will it be removed and this language of hatred will be erased. Indeed, there have been problems with our compatriots who have a Bulgarian self-consciousness, but we hope that the talks and communication, as well as Macedonia's inclusion in the European Union, will wipe out this hatred and then everyone will be able to freely communicate their belonging ethnically, nationally and as a name to maintain the Bulgarian national identity. This is a really historic moment in the Bulgarian new political history and I am glad that I am part of it. I hope it doesn't take another 25 years until things really get back to normal. I wish it sincerely, good luck! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u163	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on your draft declaration proposal. Vote 207 MPs: for 206, against 1, no abstentions. [[(People representatives from GERB and OP are doing well. (Applause)]] Re-vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u164	Mr. Glauchev, I propose a re-vote procedure because one of my colleagues didn't have the apparatus working and didn't properly take into account the vote. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u165	Re-vote, please. Vote 206 MPs: for 206, against and abstention there is no. [[Extreme applause, MPs from GERB and OP, Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva are up.]] The declaration is unanimous. You have the floor, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u166	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The only thing I can say is a great one.Thank you! "Because in this tense situation, Mr. Vigenin just described it, it is a great shoulder and support for the government. And whether it's a declaration, whether it's a mandate, I won't argue with that. What is important is that the Bulgarian Parliament shows that what is prepared as a text, you would support it afterwards in ratification. Once again, thank you! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u167	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. We wish you luck! [[Mister Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and Deputy Prime Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva leave the Chamber.]] We should now continue with an Additional report by the Committee on the Environment, if there is such willingness. We don't. Sorry, guys! Let's continue with: THE REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON THE FACTS AND FACTS OF THE DISCLOSURE OF vehicles PRESENTED TO THE NDK A TARGET FOR THE SUBSTITUTION OF THE BULGARIAN PRESENTITY OF THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're pleasantly surprised, perhaps! Mrs. Yordanova, come again on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the report for the audit of the activities of the National Palace of Culture, the Congress Centre Sofia "EAD" related to the spending of the funds from the increase in the capital of the company by Decision No 641 of the Council of Ministers of 3 August 2016 to an external audit firm, provided to Minister Lilyana Pavlova with Вр. No 03-823/10 July 2017, the results of the verification of the following public contracts are reflected: - Procedure with subject. supplier, installation and commissioning of congress conference equipment; - Procedure with the subject "Designing, restructuring and adaptation of the main building of the National Palace of Culture for the needs of the Bulgarian Presidency"; - Procedure with the subject of the exercise of independent building supervision in the design and implementation of the site. The report notes that the management of the NPC has repeatedly and formally requested information on the expenditure incurred for the purposes of the Presidency, as well as rules on the expenditure of these funds, but none have been provided. The external auditor is therefore unable to formulate findings or to express his opinion on the expenditure incurred by the Presidency. The external auditor of Semper Fortis points out a number of violations in public procurement procedures, the most disturbing is the finding made by him regarding the procedure with the subject-matter of projecting, restructuring and adaptation of the main building of the National Palace of Culture for the needs of the Bulgarian Presidency and, in particular, that the proposed by the participant appointed as contractor exceeds the estimated value of the contract referred to in the 999 thousand. lv. without VAT. The price offer of the participant amounts to 16 million. 549 thousand. BGN 997,99. without VAT; or 2 million Fifty-fifty thousand. BGN 997,99. without VAT more than foreseen. The Public Procurement Act provides that if all tenders received exceed the financial resource that the contracting entity can provide, it should terminate the award procedure. On a stronger basis, if any of the tenders received exceed the financial resource provided for the contract, it should be removed from participation. Nowhere in the contract notice or documentation as a whole has the contracting authority indicated that, where necessary, it would provide additional financial resources to finance the activities. If such means would be available under the legislation in force, they must be mentioned in the notice. Therefore, the contracting authority should have removed the three tenders exceeding the intended means and allowed only the bids of the other two to be evaluated. Hearing of the persons representing the state in the capital of the National Palace of Culture At their first meeting, held on 6 July 2017, the MPs united around the idea to be heard: Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency, Mrs. Denitsa Zlateva, former Deputy Prime Minister for the Preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency and Mr. Boyl Banov, Minister of Culture, who, for the period from 2016 until now, have been allocated funds from the state budget for the financial provision of the acquisition, modernization and demand of the building of the National Palace of Culture, for the needs of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union for 2018, exercised the rights of the state as the sole owner of the capital of the company. With a letter. No 01.35-8/07 July 2017 Ms. Denitsa Zlateva informed the MPs that due to an overseas mission to the United States of America from 8 to 15 July 2017 and a subsequent leave there by 25 July 2017, including she will not be able to attend the Commission meeting on 11 July 2017. By decision of the MPs on 18 July 2017, Ms. Denitsa Zlateva was again invited to be heard on 24 July 2017. At a Commission meeting held on 11 July 2017, before the round of questions raised by the Members of the National Assembly, each of the persons heard made a brief presentation. In his statement Mr. Tomislav Donchev noted that as a person who exercised the rights of the sole owner of the company's capital for a period of about a year and a half, he was guided by several main priorities in his work, namely: 1. The quality of cultural production produced by the NDK because, apart from space, it is a Palace of Culture and, as such, should have a similar function and commitments. 2. The preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union for the implementation of which has been decided to use the building fund of the National Palace of Culture. 3. The company as financial estimates to be managed in a sustainable manner. With regard to the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency in March 2016, it was established at the initiative of Mr. Donchev Interdepartmental Working Group to outline the perimeter and scope of the upcoming repairs, which will reflect not only the views of the management what needs to be repaired, but also to reflect the complex needs related to the Presidency. While the Interdepartmental Working Group started working in March 2016, in April of that year there was an attempt by the NDK management to organise a public contract to repair the building. The same at Mr. Donchev's insistence has been terminated as it does not reflect the product from the work of the Interdepartmental Working Group, namely "as scope, financial and technical parameters," it does not meet the recommendations given by the working group. Mr. Donchev stressed that on 21 July 2016, the working group prepared a report on the work carried out by agreeing with the draft documentation for the conduct of a public procurement contract, agreed with a preliminary draft for the reconstruction of the building and approved the necessary funding of 17 million. 468 thousand. £620. On the basis of this protocol, on 3 August 2016, the Council of Ministers increased the company's capital with the necessary means of repair. He stressed the fact that during the work of the interdepartmental working group, he insisted on seeking a complex approach, such a functionality of the building, which would allow it to work and win after the end of the presidency. The experience of other countries shows that it is not necessary to invest money in surplus facilities which then do not bring any value. In this regard, the recommendations of the Interdepartmental Working Group are aimed precisely at the possibility for the NPC to carry out additional activities in the mode of congress tourism after the completion of the renovation activities and the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. With regard to the other two priorities related to the role of the NDK as a cultural factor and the financial situation of the company, according to him, things are somewhat contradictory. Mr. Donchev noted that he was not able to personally verify the quality of the cultural production that NDK produces because of its limited time, but he received numerous positive feedback from cultural figures in different cultural spheres, who have not once expressed their satisfaction with the activities of the NDK, making it clear that in cultural circles it is normal to have healthy pluralism and that one thought in one way is not a guarantee that another thinks exactly the same way. As regards the third priority for the company's financial performance, it indicated that it had facts that the company generated losses such as for 2015 and for 2016 was moving within about 9 million. For example, for 2015 the loss amounts to 9 million. Two hundred and eighty-eight thousand. lv. A fact that can't help but cause concern in the principal. In this regard, it has repeatedly held talks with the management of the company and, in particular, its executive director with the insistence on taking specific measures for the financial stabilisation of the company. The explanation Mr. Donchev received is that the loss generated is due to depreciation and the need to invest in new spaces that can be used for cultural purposes, but would have functional connectivity with the Presidency. The dissatisfaction of its explanations made it four times in 2016 to require the company's management to present a business plan that provides measures for the financial stabilisation of the company. Unfortunately, such a business plan is not provided to him, but only those oral explanations. In her exhibition Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova pointed out that she has exercised the rights of owner of the company's capital "National Palace of Culture" EAD from 10 May 2017 to 26 June 2017, i.e. a month and a half. As a result of an analysis of the state and stage at which the repair activities are located and an analysis of the financial situation of the company and how it operates, a number of problems and discrepancies have been identified which the management of the company should have immediately eliminated, namely: 1. As regards the commercial company itself, its financial statements show a lasting trend of losses. For 2015, the company has a non-approved financial statement and for 2016 the independent financial auditor's report ends with a qualified opinion. For the first 5 months of 2017 the accumulated loss is over 3 million BGN. Although it has repeatedly required the following documents: an up-to-date business plan, the company's recovery plan, the Rules of Employment of the Board of Directors, the rules on procurement, the rules on financial management and control and the rules on payments have not been presented to it, nor have any action been taken to develop them by the management of the company. 2. With regard to the missing rules and timetable for conducting public procurement for the implementation of the activities related to bringing the NDK building to meet the requirements for preparation and implementation of the Bulgarian Presidency, as a result of the provision of target capital increases of the National Palace of Culture. As a result of the identified problems Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova stressed that she initiated four inspections in the company: from the Chief Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers, from the State Financial Inspection Agency, from the External Auditing Company and from the National Building Control Directorate, the results of the first two inspections are expected by the end of July, and the final audit report from the external audit firm and the report of the DNCC are ready and can be provided to the MPs. The audit report shall include two components, the first part relating to the financial situation of the company and the second part to the three procurements carried out and awarded. The first part of the audit does not end with a conclusion and findings as the company does not provide the necessary documents to the auditors. The second part of the audit ends with findings relating to infringements of the procedure for carrying out the three public contracts. The final report of the external independent auditor has been sent to the State Financial Inspection Agency to take the necessary action under the State Financial Inspection Act. In Mrs. Pavlova's words, although they have doubts about the unlawful conclusion of contracts with the contractors of the three public contracts, it is a fact that the contracts are in progress. She stressed that it is extremely important to implement them in time and quality so that by the end of the year the NDK building is brought in line with the requirements for holding the Presidency. However, a number of problems have been identified: 1. As regards the contract for design and repair of the building, a delay was found in the planned schedule of one month. Under contract, the timetable for implementation of the construction works is the end of September and the deadline proposed by the contractor and adopted by the NDK contracting entity is the end of October. 2. Seven months after the conclusion of the contract for design and construction until the last day on which Mrs. Pavlova exercises the rights of the State as sole owner of the company's capital, there is neither an approved work project, such as the completion of the design of the necessary repair activities, and a construction permit for part of the activities which are of category 4 within the meaning of the Construction Act in the territory. These findings were also made in the State Construction Control Directorate's report as a result of the inspection initiated by Mrs. Pavlova. In addition, during the same period, the ongoing renovation of the building was carried out without investor control by the contracting authority to ensure that the costs declared by the contractor to the contracting entity are appropriately certified. Ms. Pavlova stressed that until the date when she exercised the rights of the sole owner of the company's capital, no payments were made on the construction and installation activities for the current renovation. The contract for the implementation of the compulsory and required under the Law on the construction supervision of the territory was concluded on 5 May 2017 shortly before Mrs. Pavlova started exercising the rights of the State as sole owner of the company's capital. Up to now, the repair activities have been carried out without an investment team and without construction supervision, as despite its repeated requests, an order for the appointment of an investment team by the NDK management has not been granted to it. In addition, she is not provided with a linear timetable for how the construction and installation works will be performed in order to be synchronized with the second contract for delivery, installation and installation of congress conference equipment in the halls and the ongoing cultural program at the National Palace of Culture. 3. As regards the contract for the delivery of sound congress conference equipment, no delay has been found and is implemented within time and quality. As regards both contracts in March and April 2017, the Executive Director of the National Palace of Culture Mr. Borsosh initiated a procedure for their annexation, for an increase in their value and for the award of additional activities up to 50% of the value of each of the two contracts by means of the Interdepartmental Working Group to the Deputy Prime Minister exercising the rights of the Company's principal. Ms. Pavlova pointed out that the contract for the construction and repair of the National Palace of Culture provided for the renovation of the premises in which the press centre will be housed and renovated the premises where the teams of the International Press Centre and the media will work, but none of the contracts provided for the purchase of the necessary equipment for this press centre and in this regard the requested additional funds of 1.8 million. lv. 4. As regards the contract for carrying out construction supervision, no problems and violations have been identified. During the service cabinet, the Interdepartmental Working Group accepted the request for additional funds up to 50% under the contract for design and construction and the contract for delivery and installation of congress conference equipment and an additional increase in capital, which is confirmed by the subsequent government. The request for additional funds for the conclusion of an additional contract through the award of a new procurement contract for the so-called "United Global Security System" in view of the increased security requirements has also been accepted. Only partially accepted was the request for the annexation of the contract for design and construction, since in its opinion the Public Procurement Agency states that not all the proposed activities correspond to the definition of "unforeseen circumstances' under the Public Procurement Act and should therefore not be covered by the new application of the contract with "Galchev'. As a result of the initial request by the Executive Director of the NDK during the Office 38 million. BGN, which becomes 36 million. lv. During the next government, only 28 million were satisfied. lv. $28 million. lv. The company's capital increases in several directions: - $7 million. BGN covers the difference recognised and confirmed, which is underfinanced by the first capital increase; - the requested amount for the Single Global Security System for a new procurement is approved; - The requested amount for a contract for installation of equipment, which concerns the Press Centre is satisfied. The requests for additional funds to increase the capital of the Company concerning the renovations of Hall Azaryan, the Peroto and other accompanying activities do not concern the renovation of the NDK building with regard to the needs of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. In conclusion, Mrs. Pavlova noted that the above-mentioned problems and violations, as well as the refusal of the Executive Director to carry out its orders within the time limit and due to a significant risk of delaying the completion of the repairs, led her to propose that Mr. Borsosh be released from the Management Authority of the National Palace of Culture. In his brief exposé Mr. Boel Banov, Minister of Culture, stressed that he exercised the rights of the sole owner of the company's capital for only eight days. On this basis, he outlined two main priorities in his activities with regard to the NPC, namely: - to bring the building in a qualitative and legitimate way, ready to accept the great challenge, the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union; and - to ensure in the short and long term the continuation of NDK's work as cultural but also in much greater terms, already after the renovation of the building and as a congress centre. After the short expositions, the Members of the National Assembly had the opportunity to ask their questions relating to the subject matter of the Commission's activity to any of the persons heard who may be summarised as follows: - The following questions were asked to Mr. Tomislav Donchev: what forced the return of NDK under the hat of the Ministry of Culture (GERB); why didn't he immediately fire Mr. Borsosh, who carried 10 million each. lv. State losses over the last few years (BSP); why the company's capital increased by 17 million. BGN, provided that the Interdepartmental Working Group has accepted that 20 million are needed to prepare the building of the National Palace of Culture. 962,000. lv. and the contract concluded at the end of 2016 in the first major design, reconstruction and adaptation procedure of the building is for 19 million. 859 thousand. BGN 997. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 482 thousand. £615. for electricity consumed by the NPC and 2 million. lv. in implementation of a contract of 10 October 2015 for the Theatre "Azaryan"; where the money was spent from the increase in the capital of the Company assigned to them; who, when and how did he manage to create the suggestion that the NDK is a cultural institute (DPS); what measures he had taken within one year after four times he was not provided with a business plan by the Executive Director of the National Palace of Culture. (Will) - The following questions were raised to Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova: whether Bulgaria is in danger of removing the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in relation to the repair activities in the National Palace of Culture (GERB); in these illegal contracts will be able to implement the construction and installation activities (BSP); whether there is information that the targeted funds allocated to the preparation of the NPC building for the Presidency have been spent on other activities; since at the moment the implementation of the activities under the contracts has been partially suspended, what is happening with the NDK now (BSP); is there any clarity whether the construction works carried out exceed the paid advance of the contractor; is there pressure on her part to Mr. Borshos for public procurement (Volja). - The following questions were asked to Mr. Boel Banov: What stage is the renovation activities and whether they will be completed by the end of the year and whether she can confirm that Mrs. Zlateva has been relieved for 2016. The Board of Directors of the Company, whose member is also Mr. Borsosh (GERB); whether she is familiar with the structure of the NDK's revenues and the obligations she generates annually, and is there a vision of what will be done with this facility after the end of the Presidency; who controls the implementation of current repairs now, provided that there is no team for investor control (BSP); what will change in her work in order to be able to complete the repair of the NDK by the end of the year (United patriots). In response to the questions Mr. Tomislav Donchev pointed out that his principle opinion is that the place of the National Palace of Culture is in the Ministry of Culture. With regard to his attitude towards the management of the NPC, he stated that for his decision not to propose suspension and leave the management he was responsible for taking into account all the nuances of what the Company was doing, at what time it was located, how it stood publicly and with the financial results. As regards the criterion that the company is at a loss, it should be borne in mind that this is not the only state-owned company that is at a loss. This will mean that each year these companies have to change their management. According to him, the problem here is not personal, but structural. At present, the NDK behaves to a large extent as a provider of cultural production, not as a state-owned company, which must support itself or even form a profit from the provision of its assets for rent or other related services. The desire of the management is for the NDK to be a provider of cultural production. That's where the conflict comes from. His hesitation in what to do was based on his unresolved conflict.. how things should be settled. Indeed, loss is a problem, but at the same time, dozens and more letters from a number of creative circles have arrived to it, expressing satisfaction with the activity that is being developed in the National Palace of Culture. If he is guilty, it is that he has not found a solution to this structural conflict or problem that existed previously, and will probably also exist afterwards, if an adequate and basic solution is not found. Regarding the order for the preparation of a project, Mr. Donchev noted that he does not remember details about it, but does not normally interfere with the work of state companies about what a public contract they have conducted, and even less gives them instructions on who to be elected as a contractor under it. In this case, the Company has enjoyed all the support it needs and its colleagues to review documentation, old projects, establishing an Interdepartmental Working Group, organizing all departments to provide the necessary assistance and assistance. He stressed that with the management of the Company they were arguing which parts of the NDK should be repaired for the purposes of the Presidency. His view is that the Presidency must proceed in the best way, but it is against unnecessary spending. In addition, the synergies that are being repaired for the purposes of the Presidency should be able to be used afterwards. The presidency is six months, and if the state pours millions, it must be convinced that the result of the repairs will then generate revenue in the future. As regards the question of why a contract was entered into at a higher value than was the target subsidy to increase the company's capital, Mr. Donchev clarified that the conclusion of such a contract was an operational commitment of the management and it assessed what to repair and, if it could provide the necessary funds, it could also conclude a contract for 30 million. BGN, but given the financial situation of the company, the conclusion of such a contract is not particularly reasonable. As far as the big question is concerned, where is the money, Mr. Donchev expressed hope that they are invested in building materials and improving the state of the building fund of the National Palace of Culture. He explicitly stressed that an investigation of the competent authorities is ongoing at the moment, as it neither says who should be elected as a contractor nor gives judgments as to whether a public contract is lawful. He clarified that, for the period in which he represented the State in the company, there was a given financial inspection based on a specific signal and it ended with findings of relatively minor amounts, but they had no connection to the repair of the NDK building. Regarding the question whether electricity was paid on August 23, 2016, Mr. Donchev pointed out that he had regularly monitored the payments of electricity from the Company, as representatives of the Left often asked him in plenary whether the company's current had been paid. He has seriously considered the issue of setting up a special account for the purposes of the renovation, on which to transfer funds from the Council of Ministers. The appointment of a financial controller has been discussed with colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, but unfortunately there is no such practice, which has not led to the implementation of both measures. Their opinion on the current management of finances, from which source of revenue they go, is a matter of operational commitments and responsibilities of the management of the Company. The issue is in the final of the reporting period if 17 million are given. lv. for construction, to spend 17 million. lv. for construction, no less, no more, not at the expense of these funds to cover other costs, but this may be known when the end of the reporting period has come, i.e. when the construction has ended. In response to the questions asked to Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova about the withdrawal of the Bulgarian Presidency, she categorically stated that such a procedure does not exist and this topic has not been subject to discussion. Bulgaria cannot be denied the presidency, and only the UK is denied the presidency due to its exit from Europe. It should be borne in mind that the Bulgarian Presidency is not the National Palace of Culture and its repair. With regard to the issue of the vices in the procedure, Mrs. Pavlova explicitly stressed that the audit has established unlawful actions during the conduct of the procedure which lead to vices in the procedure, but this does not mean that the contracts concluded cannot or should not be implemented. If there are vices in the procedure as a result of unlawful acts, persons who have committed them may be sanctioned by the competent authorities. However, the contracts are legal and have their contractor, their contracting entity, their term, penalties for delays or failure to comply. As regards architect Stanislavov, who was revoked on 30 May 2017, Mrs. Pavlova noted that the decision of the Chamber had not entered into force because it was appealed by him, but even if confirmed, it had no retroactive effect and acted in the future. The individual parts projects have a designer with a separate specific competence: part Heating, Ventilation and Sewerage, part of the Architecture and so on. In this sense, the implementation, finalisation and approval of the work project should not be compromised. In response to the question of payments, Mrs. Pavlova explained that there was an advance payment paid by the NDK under the contract for construction works, the contract for design and construction, there were payments made for the installation of the equipment. Payments under the construction supervision contract during the rights exercised by it to the sole owner of the capital have not been made. To the question whether the funds were targeted or not spent, Mrs. Pavlova pointed out that she was unable to answer because she had not received this information. In addition, it is not appropriate to comment on such data in so far as checks are currently being carried out by the Prosecutor's Office. Mrs. Pavlova explained that in her joint report with the Minister of Finance Mr. Vladislav Goranov stated that part of the activities of the reconstruction and adaptation of the main building of the National Palace of Culture were suspended, but the same could continue after the approval of a working project and the issuance of building permits. As far as current repairs are concerned, they have not stopped. Mrs. Pavlova pointed out that there are quantitative-value accounts for the current repair activities and partially have information on the approval of the moisture materials. It explicitly pointed out that at the time when it exercised the rights of the sole owner of the NPC, public procurement was not carried out and therefore could not have put pressure on the choice of contractor, and could not have been given one, provided that the public procurement had been carried out long before it represented the State in the company. In conclusion, she noted that she only required the Executive Director to carry out his duties and duties as Director and contracting entity as soon as possible, following the law and following the instructions of the Public Procurement Agency, to proceed to the conclusion of the necessary contracts and where necessary to carry out the procedures for the selection of contractor, to respond to her letters. As such was not taken by Mr Borshos, this led to her decision to request to be dismissed from the Office of the Executive Director and a member of the Board of Directors. Before answering his questions, Mr. Banov made it clear that he never said there were no problems at the National Palace of Culture. What he has said is that quality within time and legitimately everything will be done. He subsequently clarified that its grounds for this claim stem from the fact that construction works are currently being carried out within 60%. The activities are suspended until a construction permit is obtained. They expect within days to receive the building permit from the Department of Architecture and Urban Development and Sofia Municipality on the three sites: building a toilet, building a kitchen and there are systems that need to pass and be replaced at the moment. The systems represent less than 5% of all construction and installation activities. That is why, according to him, things should not be dramatized. He also added that there is currently investor control by one person, but he has appointed a Board of Directors, which is all investor control. It's all about building engineers and lawyers. He assured the MPs that day and night, no Saturdays and Sundays, a tile by tile, square by square, what and how it is done, what specifications, what prices. As a matter of fact, he noted that the permission to conclude 50% additional contracts on construction works and on the other contract on equipment is made during the time of Ms. Denitsa Zlateva. The four million costs, which are not in construction and construction works, but in other activities, are again during the time of Denitsa Zlateva............................... is a proposal from a working commission to be recognised as part of the construction activities. Those are the facts. Whether they're coincidences, random or not, they're facts. It confirmed that on 2 May 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 231/2014. A few days before the work of the caretaker government was completed and the new government was elected on 4 May 2017, Deputy Prime Minister Denitsa Zlateva gave discharge for the financial year 2016. Miroslav Borsosh and the other two members of the Board of Directors, and accepted the financial statement for the same year. Mr. Banov pointed out that the rents entering the company amounted to 420 thousand. BGN, and the wages are 460 thousand. BGN, i.e. there is an approximate money between salaries and rents. With regard to electricity, things are more dramatic, as during the winter months the cost of electricity exceeds 300 thousand. BGN, and in summer with the construction works the cost of electricity is 200 thousand. lv. Therefore, the rent income is not sufficient for the maintenance of the NDK. In response to the question about the future of the National Palace of Culture Mr. Banov categorically stated that it is a policy issue whether the National Palace of Culture to produce a cultural product or to be a serious congress centre, or to hire serious cultural products. Each of this type of policy can be defended. The question is why it is made, with what money and with what plan. He pointed out that while cultural institutes can afford to do something to attract a new audience, even if it brings a financial loss with regard to the policy of the Ministry of Culture, the trading company must justify why it does one thing or another. It is not forbidden to produce a cultural program, it can and has the right to earn money and make a vision of a cultural program, including its own, but this must be under strict control. Trade companies must have a clear vision of what costs are given for the production of a cultural product and what revenues are expected, there must be a clear business plan. In conclusion, Mr. Banov assured the MPs that the National Palace of Culture will definitely continue to perform serious cultural functions............................................................................................. At a meeting of the Commission held on 24 July 2018, the MPs also listened to Ms Denitsa Zlateva, former Deputy Prime Minister for the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the European Union 2018. Before the issue was put by the MPs, Mrs Zlateva clarified that her departure on a business trip and her subsequent leave were not part of an organized event, as there were comments from members of the Commission. The following questions were addressed to Ms. Denitsa Zlateva by GERB: what were her reasons for releasing the old Board of Directors and the stay of Mr. Borsosh in the new; whether political pressure has been put on her and has she extended a political umbrella under pressure from any other factors; whether she has imposed a check and required from the new Board of Directors information on the company's activities and financial situation, and why she has later approved the financial report and has relieved the Board of Directors, including CEO Borshos, provided that the annual financial report is certified with a qualified opinion by the independent auditor; what actions has she taken regarding the report in which additional funds are requested; is she aware of the delays in the construction and installation activities in the Board of Directors? Questions asked by the BSP for Bulgaria: whether there were additional costs for NDK, which were approved and offered by it; whether it was informed that in mid-2016 when it was translated 17 million. lv. NDK, there were 62,000 in the accounts. lv. NDK's money and immediately thereafter the company began to pay for non-presidential activities; whether it knew that after the Council of Ministers' decision to translate these 17 million. lv. no special account has been set up under special conditions for the purpose of spending the funds, and the money has been transferred into the NDK's common account? Issues from "United Patriarchs": Was it known to her that there was no specified brand and model of equipment in the contract concluded with "Dinacorde"? Questions from the DPS: Was she aware of the status of the NDK when it renewed its CEO's mandate? Questions from Volja: on what basis did she decide that exactly 50% should increase the value of the two main contracts for construction and purchase of congress equipment? In response to her questions Ms. Denitsa Zlateva stressed that there was no political pressure on her and she has not extended a political umbrella on any member of the teams preparing the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The only argument with which the Executive Director of the National Palace of Culture has not been replaced is that his team is operationally dealing with the preparation of the building of the National Palace of Culture, its reconstruction and preparation for the needs of the Bulgarian Presidency. She made changes to the other members of the Board of Directors in terms of their profile. As regards the certification of the annual financial report, Mrs. Zlateva pointed out that it does not give full, limitless, unlimited immunity to the Board of Directors. The audit for certification of the annual financial statement confirms the financial policy of the company whether the requirements of the international and Bulgarian accounting standards are met. She said she read the report very carefully before signing it. In its view, depreciations in all years from 2011 to 2016 led to a loss of NDK. Since 2011, the NPC has been at a loss due to depreciation of between 5 and 7 million. lv. The financial result for 2016 was improved by close to BGN 1 000 000. or 30% compared to 2015. This does not in any way mean that members of the Board of Directors are exempt from criminal or administrative liability. Regarding the question of what she found when she took office, Mrs. Zlateva noted that she had encountered a decentralised coordination and lack of communication system. During its term of office in the NDK, a special NDK employee was appointed to deal with investment control regarding the building construction and modernisation project and the procedure for selecting a company for construction supervision was finalised. Ms. Zlateva provided detailed information on the reports of the sub-groups of the Interdepartmental Working Group, which justify their request for additional funds for carrying out additional activities on the adaptation of the NDK building for the Bulgarian Presidency of the European Union. As a result, it stressed that the additional costs were summarised and finalised within three months and the main objective was to provide additional funds through the increase in the company's capital. Mrs. Zlateva informed the MPs that on 31 March 2017 the financial resources of the individual bank accounts of the company were BGN 8 162 000. She has conducted a number of meetings and consultations with both the contractors' team and the Public Procurement Agency to clear the legal requirements for making a political decision on capital increase and additional allocation within the 50% threshold. With regard to the issue of the management contract, it pointed out that it is absolutely similar to the contracts signed with the previous members of directors, i.e. the guarantee of good management is of 3 salaries. After the hearing, some of the MPs summarized that it had found problems in coordination with regard to the European Presidency, but this is far from the pathos of the representatives of the BSP who claimed that there was almost a den of corruption and abuse. In conclusion, Mrs. Zlateva said that in the short term in which the caretaker government worked, she tried to make up for the delays, to create a better organisation between the teams, specifying that during the previous government the financial controller at the NDK had left and until the end of the mandate of the caretaker government, a new one had not been appointed. By letter No 33-00-347/17.07.2017 the Ministry of Culture of the National Assembly was provided with all official correspondence and documentation related to the reconstruction and adaptation of the NDK building for the needs of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018, containing the report of the National Construction Control Directorate, the final audit report, the opinion of the Public Procurement Agency. By letter No 03-904-1/17.07.2017 of the Ministry for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018, the documentation referred to by Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova during her hearing by the Commission, including the report of the National Building Control Directorate, the final audit report, the opinion of the Public Procurement Agency, the order for the establishment of the Council, etc. In the closed session of the Commission held on 18 July 2018, the MPs listened to Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency of National Security and Mr. Georgi Nachev, Director of the State Financial Inspection Agency on issues related to the subject of the Commission's activities, and the results of the hearing cannot be disclosed under the provisions of the Law on the Protection of classified information. III. Hearing of the persons who held the position of Executive Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the National Palace of Culture "Sofia Congress Centre" EAD for the period 2016-2017. At a meeting held on 24 July 2017, Mr. Valentin Krastev and Mr. Mario Anastasov were heard and former Presidents of the Board of Directors of the National Palace of Culture "Sofia Congress Centre" EAD; Mr. Borislav Velkov and Angel Mitev, respectively Chairman of the Board of Directors and Executive Director of the National Palace of Culture. The following questions were addressed to the persons heard by GERB: whether there are appointed legal advisors in the company NDK; what requires the conclusion of an annual financial contract for consulting services with other law firms; for what special activities and consultations are used the services of these companies, so that according to the information provided to the first company from 1 July 2016 to 1 July 2017 a total of 127 654 BGN were paid and the second one was paid a fee of 27 336 BGN for the same period. In addition, on 31 March 2017, a third law firm was paid the sum of 16 800 BGN. to review documents relating to the reconstruction and adaptation of the NDK; what are the amounts paid by the NDK under the contracts concluded on public contracts relating to the restructuring and what is the availability of the funds at present? Next are questions asked by BSP: who has approved and formulated the final volume of construction works that have been paid; are they relevant to the main task of adapting the building of NDK costs such as: digital photographing and drawing up a technical passport of the building 383 994 BGN.; spectacular facade lighting of the building of the National Palace of Culture - 139 500 BGN and the reconstruction of Hall 2 of the National Palace of Culture for BGN 2 228 355Is there a business plan for the NDK provided by Mr. Borchos? During the period of Mr. Valentin Krastev's presidency, what has he done? a question asked by the United Patriarchs. How are obligations undertaken to carry out each cost, how and who approved the costs when there was no financial controller to approve their target cost, asked the DPS? Are there rent contracts concluded at abnormally low market prices different from the others, and are there any non-payments at this time, and for what period of time; what were the revenues from ticket sales? .. Questions asked by "Volja"........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In response to the questions raised by the MPs Mr. Angel Mitev pointed out that the trend was to export legal services outside the company. In this regard, he gave an example that for the entire past year... from 3 August 2016 to 18 July 2017, the funds spent for the lawyers are of the order of 160 630,23 BGN. One law firm was awarded public contracts and the other labour law disputes. The new leadership has taken action to end the contracts. The ambition of the new management is for the legal department to start carrying out its activities, to prepare public procurement and to control their implementation. Regarding the main issue of spending 17 000 000 leva. Targeted provided for the Bulgarian Presidency of the European Union Mr. Mitev gave detailed information on the contracts concluded: - under a contract concluded for repair and restructuring, quoted above, "Galchev Engineering" Ltd. have been paid 20% advance in the amount of BGN 3 971 999,52. with VAT. Certificate No 1 of a value of BGN 1 874 134,06 was accepted and approved. without VAT. - under the Contract for the Delivery and Operation of Congress Conference Equipment with Dinacord Bulgaria. Paid amount of 3 464 375,75 BGN with VAT. It remains to be paid 263 580 leva. with VAT. The technique delivered is available and accepted by the NDK management. - under contract concluded for the exercise of independent construction control, as short as possible, with company "Kodas Consulting" Ltd. with VAT, which has been fully paid the sum of 35 200 BGN. - with a contract concluded with the C Consult for independent construction supervision in the design was paid 50% advance of 24 000 BGN. or a total of BGN 144,000. with VAT. - Contract concluded with the EU Architectural Team Ltd. for pre-project research, preparation of an idea project was fully paid 78 900 BGN. The contracts concluded for repair of the building of NPC are total value 23 942 673, 35 BGN. The funds provided under Decree of the Council of Ministers No 193 of 1 August 2016 amounted to 17 million. lv. With VAT and payment activities of the contracts total 7 million. 694 thousand. BGN 475.27. with VAT. As of 24 July 2017, the Company of the Ministry of Finance had 9 million. 305,000. BGN 524,73. The company's accounts indicate the stocks in the relevant banks. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure constitutes State aid 569 thousand. 439,38 leva. She went to pay off other activities. It wasn't the money that disappeared, it was paid for other activities. The company's availability at the time of its inauguration is 6 million. 802,000. BGN 409,28, and to date it is 6 million. 689 thousand. BGN 255.25. by reference to the Chief Accounting Officer. With regard to the new management of the National Palace of Culture on 6 July 2017, working projects as well as those for which permission for the construction of toilets and the reconstruction of kitchens is required, Mr. Mitev informed the MPs that they were submitted for approval by Sofia's chief architect. On the issues of additional agreements, Mr. Mitev noted that Decree No 302 of 9 June 2017 provided 28 million. lv. They are to secure contracts already concluded for the additional purchase of congress conference equipment to build a global security system for the NDK and for additional construction works. By letter dated 11 July 2017, an offer was submitted for the purchase and delivery of additional congress-conference equipment, translation services and others with an estimated value of 1 million. Eight hundred and 773,78 leva. It is prepared and is to be agreed with the Public Procurement Agency without prior notice of public procurement and a single homogeneous global security system for the needs of the Bulgarian Presidency with an estimated value of 12 million. lv. with VAT. An additional agreement has also been prepared with Mr. Galchev under the contract for the design of additional activities amounting to 9 million. lv. He pointed out that the approval of the new additional types of work is carried out by an appointed working group of specialists in the company, which determines their scope. In response to his questions, Mr. Krastev noted that the main model of decision was within the framework of the order of April 2016 of the then representative of the state, the capital company Mr. Donchev, an interdepartmental working group involving representatives of the National Palace of Culture and all other interested offices. As a result of its work from April to July 2016, the interdepartmental Working Group shall issue a protocol and a report on its activities from 21 July 2016, offering the amount of 17 million. $450,000. lv. The round of these funded activities does not include activities such as digital filming, spectacular facade lighting. Mr. Krastev pointed out that it was necessary to restore lost construction papers in the field of Architecture and Urban Development and the Sofia Municipality because there were no documents concerning the design and original construction of the main building of the National Palace of Culture. Mr. Krastev categorically stated that it was not true that Mr. Borchos had the right to operate until 50,000. lv. In the Statute of the Commercial Company, there was a rule that the Executive Director could conclude a contract of more than 50 thousand. lv. excluding VAT only after approval by the collective body, namely the Board of Directors. Regarding the question of who has authorised to start construction works without a permit for construction, Mr. Krastev said that the permission to start the SMR started with the part of the ongoing repair that does not require construction permission was ordered by Mr. Borsosh. In response to the question of signed contracts for rent at abnormally low prices, Mr. Krastev said that there is no such information. In response to the questions raised by the MPs, Mr. Mario Anastasov said that NDK's problem is in the sole management of the company, namely that there was no opportunity to obtain different and unapproved information from Mr. Borsosh. The contacts they had with him the first 20 days of their management were by personal e-mail addresses. As regards the financial situation of the company, Mr. Anastasov clarified that the report on 31 March 2017 received it only on 5 May 2017. Unfortunately, it is in the form in which it is provided to statistics. From the information received on the cost of economic feathers, he claims that there are large gaps in the company. Gives an example of the cost of staff, which is about 400,000 per month. lv. or annually 4 million. $800,000. lv. The 2016 report refers to the figure of 5 million. $800,000. lv. His questions as to what the difference was due, the answer was for additional remuneration. The problem of accountability is also the reason for the qualified opinion in the auditor's report. On the specific questions asked about filed cases, for public procurement payments, for scheduled and upcoming public contracts, he explained that no information had been provided to them. As regards the 2016 Annual Financial Report, he stressed that the Board of Directors refused to discuss it as members were granted in a form which did not comply with the requirements of the Commercial Law and the Company Statute. This is the reason why they refused to provide it to the principal. In this respect, he stated that there is no Protocol No 3 of 30 March 2017 of the representing NPC, as stated in the Audit Report published in the Commercial Register. In response to the questions raised by the MPs, Mr. Borislav Velkov pointed out that as Chairman of the Board of Directors from 15 May to 30 June 2017, the principal gave them instructions for extremely professional, responsible behavior with high intensity of work with regard to delays and already identified initial problems around the preparation of the building. As regards the minutes of the six meetings held in total, there are four because Protocol No 4 returned to the members of the Board of Directors with a content which does not correspond to the meeting held and they refuse to sign it. The missing Protocol No 5 concerns the discussion of the award of the additional agreements and of the main contracts. The members of the Board of Directors held that the information and documentation provided that would motivate the conclusion of a lawful supplementary agreement were not sufficient. At the same meeting in the presence of eng. Galchev, the executive director of the company then insisted that these agreements be concluded as soon as possible, but the other members refused. Meanwhile, they informed Minister Pavlova with two interim reports on the state of the company, expressing their concern about the main indicators. Since their inauguration as Chairman and members of the Board of Directors have requested detailed information on all the indicators of the company. The answer received is extremely small in volume and non-detail information, e.g. financial reference from the chief accountant, according to which on 31 May 2017 the costs of the company of BGN 7 238 211 are indicated. Total revenue from the activity BGN 3 804 556 The loss is therefore 3 433 655 BGN. This is for the period 1 January 2017. 31 May 2017 In this regard, in all their interim reports to Mrs. Pavlova, as well as in the final report which they have given for their management, demand that very urgent measures be taken to rescue the company. During the period during which Mr. Velkov was Chairman of the Board of Directors, no one had exercised political pressure on the members of the Board of Directors, but had professional requirements to do the work professionally and legally. With regard to the current work of the members of the Board of Directors, it can be said that they are trying to assist with their expertise the operational management of the NDK. It's a teamwork. Measures are urgently taken to increase investor control, different in its kind of specialists, so that the dynamics of the process can be ensured. According to him, the most important thing is that he has started an extremely thorough analysis of the overall activity and all the components of the company to see what is happening in it, and with the expertise they have in various areas members of the Board of Directors, to ensure a good business plan of the company and to get it out of the situation in which it is located. On supplementary questions from the MPs Mr. Anastasov replied that the Annual Financial Statement for 2016 was not discussed by the Board of Directors for the reasons he had previously set out and was not presented for approval to the principal. In his words, 20 days later Mr. Denitsa Zlateva accepted it. Regarding the question raised again about the possibility of not holding the Presidency, Mr. Krastev replied categorically that the Presidency will be held because outside the linear timetable of construction there is a synergy between many other processes, namely: construction, logistics and activities of the National Palace of Culture. In response to the question of how it is possible to win a public contract with a proposed bid exceeding nearly 4 million. lv. the estimated value of the contracting entity, Mr. Krastev said that when selecting a contractor they respected the rules of the Public Procurement Act, as the estimated value is not defined as a service for participation but as eligibility. The contracting authority shall have the right to transmit such a quality to it, which should be made explicitly in the participation documentation. He has participated in the meetings of the interdepartmental working group at which the procedures have been discussed and where the estimated value is not accepted to be declared as maximum permissible. Thus, by strictly complying with the conditions of the announced procedure under the Public Procurement Act, a participant who exceeded the estimated value shall be selected. Following all the facts and circumstances presented, the Members of the National Assembly recommended that the Court of Auditors include in its annual audit work programme for 2018. This audit will carry out an analysis of the overall activity of the NPC and not of individual facts. He will check the management and utilisation of resources, how business plans are implemented, have goals and priorities, and give recommendations for improving the company's activities. Last but not least, this will assist the management in its efforts for good financial management and stabilisation of the NDK. In conclusion, the Members of the National Assembly agreed that, on the basis of the hearings carried out and on the basis of the documentation submitted from the checks carried out by competent authorities, there were doubts about the infringements committed, but the relevant competent authorities should rule on this issue. The National Constitutional Assembly is a legislative body, not an investigative body. The Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018 is a priority issue and an opportunity that we should use wisely. For each of us, it is extremely important that the work on NDK adaptation is completed qualitatively and within the deadline, but at the same time all the requirements of the Law should be met. This was the guiding principle in our work over the past period, believing that with our questions, opinions and opinions we have contributed to better implementation of the activities of bringing the NDK building into a form meeting the requirements for representativeness and functionality. At a meeting held on 25 July 2017, the report on the activities of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances in the course of spending funds allocated to the National Palace of Culture for the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union was adopted by 10 votes for the Council of the European Union, 9 votes against the Council of Ministers and without abstentions, and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION on the report on the activities of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances in the expenditure of funds allocated to the NDK for preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the activities of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances in the expenditure of funds allocated to the NDK for preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u169	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yordanova. Colleagues, this is where we're going to break this point. I will then give the floor to colleagues who will propose an extension, but the additional report we have been waiting for at Regional Development has arrived. They're a few points, so we'll move on to it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u170	You have the floor, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Additional report to the report (inc. No 753-31-3 of 26 July 2017 for the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection, No 754-01-43, submitted by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Stanislav Ivanov and Ivelina Vasileva on 11 July 2017, adopted on the first vote on 19 July 2017. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal of the MP Ivelina Vassileva made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ivelina Vassileva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 88 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 4 and 5. The decisions of the Court of First Instance on appeals against opinions and decisions under para. 4 are final. 1 related to the realization of sites which are designated as objects of national importance with an act of the Council of Ministers and are objects of strategic importance. (5) The Court shall examine the appeals under para. 4 and shall rule by decision and the proceedings shall be concluded within 6 months of their submission. The Court of Justice shall declare the decision within one month of the hearing in which the hearing of the case was concluded. 2. Previously on AMC's... 4 and 5 become respectively. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u172	In fact, here the only difference is that in para. 4 you have added are sites of strategic importance. Honourable Members, we have been debating these proposals so far. We continue with the speeches. The only change is that the additions are sites of strategic importance. You have the floor, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u173	Mr President, honourable Members, we have had a quick, recent debate in the Commission's extraordinary meeting. I would like to inform you of our arguments regarding the strategically important add-on. The Bulgarian state has nearly 400 strategies that define sectorally all activities that it considers a priority. There is no hierarchy of these strategic documents. The very nature, second to the strategic document or strategy, is of such a type that it has framework indicative but not very explicit recommendations on how to look at the sector concerned. In the presence of such a circumstance that we have over 400 active strategies in the country, obviously we need to make some kind of reform on this issue, our concern is this: who, when and why will determine which of these 400 strategic sites are on all these strategies? Who will say that only energy and road projects are of strategic competitive advantage for the Bulgarian state. Bulgarian agriculture, Bulgarian organic farming, is there no other competitive advantages? And in conclusion, due to the fact that the very definition inside, as given by the importers, the definition of the concept of strategic importance is quite problematic. That is why, in our view, the scope of this legal proposal cannot be extended except by national priorities and by strategic priorities, which is why we will vote against this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u174	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The DPS Parliamentary Group has already presented our position that we support speeding up the investment process and the votes we will make on the texts proposed in the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Environmental Protection will be in this context. I would just like to add that we do not, in any case, compromise with compliance with all legislation with all the procedures that concern preventive activity, such as carrying out, evaluating, assessing the environmental assessment, and assessing the performance of the environmental impact assessment, all the procedures required, which concern the protection of nature and, in general, and with a view to protecting the health of all of us, will be implemented. But what I want to say is that we would like, in view of the considerations that, when implementing these procedures, as provided for in the spirit and philosophy of the amendments being made, there will be no deprivation of the right to a judicial dispute and the ruling of the judicial authorities. We would support the single instance within 6 months of the ruling of the court on these procedures, in view that, in fact, as is set out in our and election programme and platform of our political power, the DPS, we are to speed up the investment process both of objects of national importance, and here what is added, with strategic importance, is a good consideration. We of the extraordinary Committee on the Environment and Waters, not more than an hour and a half ago, submitted our constructive proposals to define this so that it would help speed up the investment process, not be an occasion for further interpretations by the competent legal, judicial authorities. In this respect, however, we would like to support the projects of national importance and strategic importance as well as the projects that concern municipalities. Given how many municipalities we have, what is also the state of the investment projects that concern, I stress the municipalities, naturally, here we must be very precise, not all projects should be prioritized and subject to the so-called 'accelerated track', let's say it in compliance with environmental legislation. Here we must be as precise as possible, but we are therefore in favour of the proposals that have been made between first and second readings to speed up projects that are of municipal importance and why not other projects that concern whether or not they are legal. I am referring to priority investment sites under the Investment Promotion Act. All of this from our perspective is in the context of having an accelerated investment process in the country, because gross domestic product would increase mainly through a serious investment programme, creating a good investment climate in the country, competent, timely ruling by the independent judiciary, so that there is a serious investment process that will lead to an increase in both pensions and salaries, at all, of quality and standard of living for all of us. We would really like to appeal to all colleagues, especially GERB, if not at this stage, we see that at this stage there is rather a reservation, for the future to discuss this with all systematic democratic parties to find the right solution to speed up investment projects, and at the municipal level, as well as to promote investment in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u176	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Atanas Stoyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 156 MPs: 21, against 13, abstention 122. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Please vote on § 2 on the Commission report. Vote 157 MPs: 114, against 2, abstention 41. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u177	The proposal of the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov and a group of MPs: In § 2, c. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 10 with the following content: The decisions referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 6 are subject to appeal under The decisions of the first instance court on complaints against decisions of the competent authority on investment proposals, their extensions or amendments, which are designated as objects of national importance, by an act of the Council of Ministers or are defined as municipal sites of paramount importance by an act of the relevant municipal council or are certified as priority investment sites under the Investment Promotion Act. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Atanas Kostadinov and Krum Zarkov. Paragraph 2 shall make the following amendments: 1. in t. 1, in the created para. 10: (a) in the first sentence, the word "Appeal' is replaced by "Appeal'; (b) sentence two is out. 2. in item 2, the created para. 11 is amended as follows: In contesting decisions of the Minister of Environment and Water on investment proposals, which are designated as objects of national importance by an act of the Council of Ministers, their extensions or amendments, the time limit for examining and making a decision on the case, at each of the two instances of the proceedings, shall be three months from the initiation of the case before the relevant court. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Ivelina Vassileva made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3. § 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 93 are created. 10 and 11: The decisions referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 6 are subject to appeal under The decisions of the first instance court on complaints against decisions of the Minister of Environment and Water on investment proposals, their extensions or amendments, which are designated as objects of national importance by an act of the Council of Ministers and are objects of strategic importance. (11) The Court shall examine the appeals under para. The second sentence of 10, and rule by decision, ending the proceedings within 6 months of their submission. The Court of Justice shall declare the decision within one month of the hearing in which the hearing of the case was concluded.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u178	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In essence, the reasons for our proposal are the following. We would like to preserve the two-instantial procedure and the possibility of a cassation appeal of the first-institutional court in relation to the fact that we believe that these are deeply defended traditional conquests of the Bulgarian jurisdiction principles. We can't ask for speeding up at the expense of legality. You probably won't accept it, but only the Law can give us freedom. That's extremely true. At the same time, with our proposal, we are broadcasting three very strong messages. The first to the Bulgarian municipalities: We know your problems. We know how often and how difficult it is for unscrupulous interests, corporate, private and private you suffer and you do not have the fast track for your projects. We offer the fast track twice three months, but with the preservation of the two-installed production. Our message is also to investors. Trust us. The more you have legal protection for your investments, the better the economy will develop cumulatively as a whole. And last but not least, our message to the conservationists. We will not back down from the two-station procedure because, disrespectful ladies and gentlemen colleagues, economic development, quickly, is a guarantee for the development of the state, but the sustainable development of Bulgaria, which combines three components: environmental, social and economic. This is the essence of our proposal and I hope you will support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u180	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Atanas Stoyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 173 MPs: 35 against 19, abstention 119. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MPs Atanas Kostadinov and Krum Zarkov. The Commission does not support it. Vote 174 MPs: 54, against 72, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 3 on the Commission report. Vote 174 MPs: 120 against 4, abstention 50. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u181	Paragraph 3? a proposal of the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov and a group of MPs: In § 3, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 7 containing the following: The decisions of the first instance court on complaints against decisions of the competent authority on investment proposals, their extensions or amendments, which are designated as objects of national importance by an act of the Council of Ministers or are defined as municipal sites of paramount importance by an act of the relevant municipal council or are certified as priority investment sites under the Investment Promotion Act. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Kostadinov and the National Representative Krum Zarkov: The following amendments shall be made in § 3: 1. in t. 1 the created new para. 7 is amended as follows: In appeal of EIA decisions on investment proposals which are designated as objects of national importance by an act of the Council of Ministers, their extensions or amendments, the time limit for examining and making a decision in the case of each of the two courts of the proceedings shall be three months from the initiation of the case before the relevant court. 2. t. 2 s is out; 3. t. 3 becomes t. 2 and in it the words.. 10 and 11.... 8 and The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal of the MP Ivelina Vassileva made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 99 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 7 and 8: The decisions of the Court of First Instance on complaints against decisions of the Minister of Environment and Water on investment proposals, their extensions or amendments, which are designated as objects of national importance by an act of the Council of Ministers and are of strategic importance. (8) The Court shall examine the appeals under para. 7 and shall give a decision and the proceedings shall be concluded within 6 months of their submission. The Court of Justice shall declare the decision within one month of the hearing in which the hearing of the case was concluded. 2. Previously on AMC's... 7 and 8 become respectively. 10 and
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u182	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Stoyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 170 MPs: 32, against 20, abstention 118. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Atanas Kostadinov and Krum Zarkov, not supported by the Commission. Vote 174 MPs: 50, against 69, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 4 on the Commission report. They voted 176 MPs: 118, against 2, abstention 56. Paragraph 4 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u183	Proposal by the National Representative Ivelina Vassileva made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the A new §5 is being created: .................................................................................. The additional provisions shall set out the following provisions: 76: ..76. A strategically important site is each site included in the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020 for reliable, efficient and cleaner energy or in an integrated transport strategy between 2030 and 2030. The Commission supports the proposal The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 76: ..76. The project of strategic importance is each site included in the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020 for reliable, efficient and cleaner energy or integrated transport strategy between 2030 and 2030.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u184	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5 with the corresponding content, in accordance with the Commission's report. They voted 175 MPs: 119, against 1, abstention 55. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u185	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u186	We are voting on the name of the division. They voted 170 MPs: 129, none, abstention 41. The term "Transitional and Final Provisions" has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u187	The proposal of the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov and a group of MPs: In § 4, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, para. A second sentence shall be created with the following content: The decisions of the first instance court on complaints against decisions of the competent authority on investment proposals, their extensions or amendments, which are designated as objects of national importance by an act of the Council of Ministers or are defined as municipal sites of paramount importance by an act of the relevant municipal council or are certified as priority investment sites under the Investment Promotion Act. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Kostadinov and the National Representative Krum Zarkov: In Transitional and Final Provisions, § 4 shall be amended as follows: 1. 1.. drop out; 2. t. 2 becomes t. 1 and in it the content of the created new para. 20 is amended as follows: In the case of appeals against decisions on investment proposals which are designated as objects of national importance by an act of the Council of Ministers, their extensions or amendments, the time limit for examining and issuing a decision in the case of each of the two courts of the proceedings shall be three months from the initiation of the case before the relevant court. 3. t. 3 becomes t. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ivelina Vassileva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ivelina Vassileva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In the Law on Biological Diversity (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 31 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The second sentence is created: The decisions of the Court of First Instance on complaints against decisions of the competent authority on plans, programmes and investment proposals related to the realization of sites which are designated as objects of national importance by an act of the Council of Ministers and are objects of high importance. 2. A new para is being created. 20: The Court of Justice shall examine the appeals under para. 19 sentence two, and rule by decision, the proceedings shall be concluded within 6 months of their submission. The Court of Justice shall declare the decision within one month of the hearing in which the hearing of the case was concluded. 3. Previously on AMC's... 20 and 21 become respectively. 21 and 22. 4. So far, the Al. 22 becomes para. 23 And in it the words are said. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council 5. Previously on AMC's... 23 and 24 become respectively. 24 and 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u188	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u189	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I'm a little embarrassed to be bothering you again. [[GERB lines]] , but in practice, this is the last opportunity to do the following: maintain the legality, support the two-station production and create a fast track for significant investment projects. I take the floor because I'm really convinced of what I'm saying that we can both support the fast track and uphold the law. You are witnessing in the short new history of Bulgaria that when we replace the fast investments for the environment, we get, for example, the concrete jungle of Sunny Beach. You are witnessing that when we replace the high wages and decent wage of labor with the so-called competitive advantage of Bulgaria to have a low wage for wages, we get a social problem. Therefore, once again, this is the last opportunity in which we can do this sustainablely: to support twice three months of fast track for investment projects for municipalities, for investors and to maintain the appeal rate at second instance in order to preserve the environment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u190	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate, moving on to the vote. Firstly, we are voting on a proposal by the MP Atanas Stoyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 176 MPs: 32, against 29, abstentioned 115. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MPs Atanas Kostadinov and Krum Zarkov, also not supported by the Commission. They voted 176 MPs: 59, against 64, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 6 on the Commission report. They voted 173 MPs: 120 against 1, abstention 52. Paragraph 6 of the Commission report has been adopted. Here's a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u191	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I voted against it because the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act so adopted contradicts fundamental constitutional principles relating to citizens' fundamental rights such as publicity, transparency and guaranteeing public participation in the environmental protection decision-making process. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u192	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u193	I voted against it because the bill has been submitted to Parliament and already adopted in a Chamber in violation of the requirements for its prior publication and public discussion at least 30 days. 26, para. 3 and 4 of the Law on Legislative Acts. I voted against it because the abolition of the judicial review of individual administrative acts will lead to a violation of the principles of the justice system and access to justice of citizens and the public. There is an intrusive tendency to restrict civil rights and access to justice. I voted against it because in art. 10, para. 2 of the Law on the Judiciary, the legal proceedings in administrative cases are two-instantial, first instance and cassation. [[Comments from GERB. Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u194	Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u195	At the same time, we are witnessing another attempt and already the possibility of an appeal to be removed this time in the Environmental Protection Act. Once we add the planned further increase in court fees, the picture becomes more and more agile. A wall rises in front of the people and defends their civil rights in court. It's unconstitutional, illegal, unpardonable. I voted against it because the desire to avoid judicial control, even at the cost of a violation of the Constitution, is an infallible marker for administrative arbitrariness and a direct source of corruption in government. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u196	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. There's one more paragraph. The law hasn't been passed yet. We're going back to the main report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u197	Under § 5, there is a proposal of the National Representative Ivelina Vassileva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 7. .................................................... The administrative cases under art. 27, 88, 93 and 99 of the Environmental Protection Act and under art. 31 of the Biodiversity Act is completed in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u198	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote § 7 on the Commission report. The vote is 159 MPs: 115 against 1, abstention 43. Paragraph 7 of the Commission Report has been adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. We'll continue with the NDK. [[Noise and lines.]] Once again. [[Private applause.]] Opinions of importers. There are two Project Solutions. Here you go. This is actually the first Bill at the time. You have the floor, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u199	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We've finally made it to the NDK.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u200	We haven't stopped, Mr. Boychev. We're always around the NDK.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u201	My fellow Members, we now have to ask ourselves the question: was there any point in setting up this Committee of inquiry? What did she do that we want to extend her work today? From what was provided as information to the Commission, from the hearings held in it, it became clear to me in an undeniable way that there was a point in the work of this Commission. What did she find out? Of the 17 million translated by a decision of the Council of Ministers to adapt the building of the National Palace of Culture for the needs of the Bulgarian representation it became clear that 3 million. 569 thousand. lv. are spent inappropriately or, more precisely, not for the needs of the Bulgarian Presidency. The public procurements by the National Palace of Culture have been vitiated, which is made from the external auditor's report appointed by Minister Lilyana Pavlova. Construction and installation works in the National Palace of Culture were carried out without investor control and without selected construction supervision. In a word, this means that there was no one to verify either the quantity or the quality of the works to be paid off. And last but not least, a critical delay has been accumulated in all activities around the NDK. The big question: how and why was all this possible to happen? The presidents of the Board of Directors who we heard said: "We did not know about all the decisions made by the Executive Director. We asked for information from him and this information was denied to us. To the question that colleagues from our parliamentary group asked: why you waited and why you did not ask for Mr. Miroslav Borsosh's removal, the answer was as follows: Perhaps these chairmen of the Board of Directors were right because the chronology represents the following. [[Reply from the National Representative Diana Yordanova.]] Not really, ma'am. I represent what we have done and why I want to extend the Commission's deadline. And maybe these board members were right, looking at the situation so far. Minister Vejdi Rashidov, who is standing here in this Chamber, ordered a check of the National Palace of Culture and as a result, took away his responsibility to be the principal of the National Palace of Culture and transferred him to Mr. Tomislav Donchev at that time Deputy Prime Minister in Government No 2 of Borisov. What is Mr. Tomislav Donchev doing? By rewriting the management contracts, perhaps by coincidence, the clause which restricts the Executive Director from ordering funds up to 50 thousand. lv. In a word, since September 2015, Mr. Miroslav Borchos has been signed an empty check to order. To the question to Mr. Donchev: "What have you done in view of the poor financial performance of the company?" he said: "I have repeatedly asked for a business plan, a rescue program of the company and it has been refused to me." This is to a deputy prime minister in your government! Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova is firing Mr. Borschosh. There are not 24 hours of this dismissal Prime Minister Borisov restores him as CEO of the National Palace of Culture on the grounds that the contradictions in the management of the National Palace of Culture have been overcome. Therefore, the members of the Temporary Commission from BSP requested a hearing of Prime Minister Borisov in the Commission. In all these situations when the NDK as ping-pong was transferred between the various ministers, the arbitrator was Mr. Borisov and it appears that he has always taken Mr. Borsosh's side. That is why we wanted him to be invited to the Commission and to ask him these questions: What were his arguments for the appointment of Mr Borchos? Then, what were his reasons to restore him to work? It is the only way to answer the big question, which is the power behind Mr. Borchos, which allows him not to carry out the orders of ministers, deputy prime ministers, of his own board of directors? Unfortunately, with the vote in the Commission and the votes of GERB, Mr. Borisov was refused to be invited to this Commission. This is one of the arguments by which we want to extend the term of office of the Temporary Commission. At the same time, we asked and we were not given the report by which on 14 June Prime Minister Borisov ordered the Chief Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers to check the activities of the National Palace of Culture from 1 January 2016 to June 2017. According to my information, this report is ready, the findings in it are not at all personal and in our opinion it should be provided for the needs of the Commission. It became clear from the hearing of the Head of the State Financial Inspection Agency that by the end of August the final report of the NDK verification will be ready. It became clear from the hearings of the specialized bodies that August will be ready and the forensic accounting expertise on how the money was spent in the National Palace of Culture. Without these reports, the conclusions and information from them, the Commission cannot fully do its work and meet the tasks for which it was created and the big questions: where is the money and has pressure been put on, and if so, by whom? I hope that today we will support by voting in a House extending the term of office of the Temporary Commission until the end of September. This will enable Prime Minister Borisov to come to the Commission and explain his behaviour and attitude towards Mr. Borchos. We will give a very clear signal to society that we will be ready to go all the way and show the whole truth about who is responsible and who has protected all these abuses in the NDK. And last but not least, colleagues from GERB, so you will be able to show that you are sincere in your desire to distinguish yourself from the model National Palace of Culture. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u202	Read the Decision Project!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u203	Presenting: Project! DECISION extending the period of validity of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances in the expenditure provided to the NDK for the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union The National Assembly on the basis of art. 37, para. 1 of the Staff Regulations HAS DECIDED It shall extend the period of validity of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances in the expenditure of funds allocated to the National Palace of Culture for the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union until the end of September 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u204	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. I'm opening the debate. I give the floor for speeches, colleagues. Mr. Kostadinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u205	Hello!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u206	Hello, Mrs. Dukova! It's good to see you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u207	Me too!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u208	Will there be only for Mrs. Dukova?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u209	Yes, Mrs. Dukova and I are in the Commission together. I would also like to congratulate the President of our Commission, Mrs. Yordanova, who has made a very serious effort to do what we have done. Madam President, honourable Members! I do not wish my greatest enemy to endure and see what we have established in this Commission. I am quite frank because, in this Commission, by establishing the facts, we have practically seen the most depraved and unnatural human forms of greed, corruption, carelessness and insolence. Here they showed, unfortunately, some of the most negative features of the political class when it comes to vital objects for the country. It's an introduction. I would like to present you with further reasons as to why we want to extend this Commission's work. As recorded by our Commission, it is to establish the facts and circumstances of the case NDK. We have a very serious problem, honourable Members, for which we want your cooperation. We've practically done half our job. So far, in these 32 pages, we have established only the facts. The facts are these indisputable, proven events and actions that are documented, which show us the timeline of the process. However, honourable Members, circumstances are often linked by other kinds of actions that give us an answer to the question of why this happened. We need time and your confidence, apart from the facts, to discover the circumstances. Now I can directly illustrate with examples from this report what is the difference between facts and circumstances and why we have done half the work so far. It is an indisputable fact that in 2015 a decision of the Council of Ministers declared the National Palace of Culture to be such an institution to adopt the European Presidency. But what are the circumstances that led seven months later to establish an Interdepartmental Working Group? It's not clear to us! It is an indisputable fact that in 2015 there is an elected Management Board, but we do not understand the circumstances why Mr. Borchos was elected to be such an executive director? Another fact is that the established Interdepartmental Working Group in 2016 with the sanction of Tomislav Donchev is a fact. But in what logic and circumstances did so many state men impose on Mr. Borchos to be President of the Interdepartmental Working Group and at the same time the Executive Director? We don't have an answer to that question. One fact since 2016, which is absolutely established and uncontroversial. There is a statute of the NDK company which determines that by decision of the Management Board the Executive Director can spend up to 50 thousand. lv. This is a fact, but what are the circumstances that led Mr. Donchev to cancel, change the regulations and approve the duty-free spending of this account? We don't have an answer. It's a circumstance. The fact of 2016 is that 17 million have been granted. lv. The Council of Ministers has decided to take the necessary measures to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. But we do not have an answer in relation to this fact: what circumstances make Mr. Donchev and Mr. Goranov pour the money into a simple NDK account and not exercise control over their appropriate spending? Because, honourable Members, only ten days later start between 400,000 and 500,000. lv. to be paid out without control for activities that are not related to the Presidency. This claim why it was so, we did not establish it! The fact in 2016 is that four times Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev asks a civil servant, CEO, full report. My fellow Members, we are not clear on the circumstances, however, why Mr. Borchos is not taking into account at all what the Deputy Prime Minister wants from him. This circumstance is unclear to us. In addition, for the period 2015 - 2017 the facts are as follows: the members of the Board of Directors and all the directors who were then, say that for those two years the Company was managed incredibly single. What circumstances, however, make both the principals and the people responsible for this in the state not to take into account Mr. Borsosh's sole management? That's not clear to us! It is a fact, honourable Members, that in two years the principal is changed five times and when Mr. Vejdi Rashidov wants a full report of the National Palace of Culture, he is replaced as a principal, but we do not know which circumstances lead to these changes in two years five times to change the principal?! You yourselves understand that in this environment we cannot expect sustainable solutions. Another fact is that I have already mentioned that for two years we have witnessed sole and financial violations, but everyone is silent. Finally and in conclusion, the fact is that Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova releases Mr. Borsosh, but we do not know, colleagues, what circumstances force the Bulgarian Prime Minister to restore Borshos to his place. So in conclusion, I will give you two more examples. We have clarified the facts and thank you once again "I am not ironic," indeed we can envy as a parliamentary group that you have an expert like Mrs. Yordanova, and a colleague because she is a true fighter. We have most of the facts available to the prosecution not to say with everyone, but a complete mystery is: why and what are these circumstances, which led to the emblem of the Bulgarian Presidency becoming a cash register, for example, of the handover. Someone has wished to become rich two years before 2017 and is stubbornly going in this direction. Last but not least, honourable Members, why is it important for all of us, for Bulgaria, to distinguish between facts and circumstances? Because it is an absolute fact that since 1990 and especially after 2007, Bulgaria has made every effort to be a successful and prosperous country. However, it is a fact, Members, that to date we are the poorest country in the European Union. What I will finish with is why it is important for colleagues from GERB, for our fellow MPs, to distinguish between fact and circumstances? Because it is a fact that, colleagues, you have been forming two governments so far, but we are not clear, or at least perhaps you are, the circumstances for which you cannot complete both of your reigns in full terms. I am saying this very sincerely because, which is bad for you or for us, is bad for Bulgaria as well. So I ask you to support an extension of the Commission's work, because at the moment we can only present facts to you. The circumstances that show the reasons why we are in this situation and Bulgaria's policy to be a debate on 100 square meters of tiles is not our policy, honourable Members, of all of us. And thank you again. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u210	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u211	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sure a lot of colleagues are annoyed that I'm taking the floor because everyone wants this debate to end faster.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u212	Not all of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u213	Because the interest on the subject is beginning to tend to zero. Many things have been said, they are past, some have achieved the result, some have suffered negatives. There were explanations, all sorts of comments, but many truths were not told. And I am delighted by Mr. Kostadinov for asking terribly good questions about who, why, when, where, for what reason did he have the support? Great questions. However, you in this group, here in the group, cannot answer these questions. Do you know why? Because you're a parliamentary group with no memory. After the restriction you introduced, there are no people here with whom we could now develop a debate, and say where this person came from, what the genesis is, and why it was appointed. Colleagues, observers and analysts on screens and newspapers do not say that this is from the glorious golden Bone Generation, from the time when such, unknown where, for what reasons, they got into, inserted into structures, into offices, into boards, there was one person in 13 boards. When they were ruined... [[Heckling]] Yeah, yeah, there was one of the CDC headquarters back then at 13 boards. [[Heckling]] Yeah, we remember. We remember these things! That's why people here from BSP, don't make this mistake in the future! It's a big mistake! This was also the golden generation, which ruined 2680 Bulgarian enterprises only by the means of brigand management privatization. I repeat: 2680 enterprises. So such people over the years, through various governments, including the BSP, the Triple Coalition and the Royal Coalition, and then the Gerbadjiy with a slick smile, with a fint, as in many artistic films and works of world cinema classics and literature managed to bring things in, there are already these days in many different positions and positions, they are dirty at the snap of Bulgaria. Those are the questions. Here you are also the victims of you, because both you and your governments, and Oresharski, and the previous and the Triple Coalition, have given this person and such individuals the opportunity to reside, to pass through, to become richer, to reach, unexpectedly and suddenly to drink, when longer, where more successfully and more unsuccessfully, at central or local level, to have them. Here are the questions. I sometimes can't understand, I will start as Mr. Kostadinov asking questions to GERB why here, as if as sailors, decent to them, you stand on the bunker's ambrazor to protect such individuals, to support them, to save them when they are fired and then to fire them again? [[Heckling]] Yeah, I tell them that. So these are the explanations! In this order of thought we should look for an explanation for similar phenomena that are on Ilf and Petrov, but they are not political. They have a criminally, deeply psychological character that can be explained by mistakes, with omissions, with just so today to come, this one, yes, is suitable for something... And compromises are made to get here to account for some scattered millions, one failed time, some false hopes. We're here to talk about each other, to look for political dividends. From this political dividends cannot be earned, and I advise you, on the left, not to do it to anyone! These are some of the mistakes to call it, there was through socialism the knowledge of growth and change itself, because the billions lost in this way are lost and gradually, a little less we have reached the hole we find ourselves to. One thing is positive, however, is that the moment is coming when such questions, Mr. Kostadinov and your group, are also asking the benefit of the fact that we are currently debating this debate. This is the benefit of this debate to sharpen all our attention to such individuals, because none of us is insured that, when he comes to the government, there will be none that the affair, how it was, Sujukgate was, will happen, or someone will buy votes to become a MP in the Bulgarian National Assembly and the benefit is to take account of these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u214	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. I'm expecting a line from Mr. Shopov's statement. I don't see any lines. Any further comments? Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u215	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I refused to sign the report because I think you should trust us to continue our work. One reason is that the deadline was very short and yet more information is coming, which we can share in our next work.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u216	You suggested it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u217	I'm giving you an example. In 2010 a competition for energy efficiency was won, which the NPC with personal money paid for 170 thousand. BGN, it is up to date and at the moment, this project is in the Energy Efficiency Agency. In mid-2016 Mr. Borchos announced an energy efficiency contest, where only one company appeared and won it for 360 thousand. lv. I also think of this as an argument that can give us the opportunity to look at the things surrounding the NDK.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u218	Why didn't you bring it in during the Commission, you're a member?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u219	I think we deserve the trust of the MPs and people to understand other facts that are being done incorrectly with the concrete construction by the winning firm. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u220	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Replies to Mr. Georgiev's statement? I can't see. Mrs. Christova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u221	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to congratulate the President of the Commission, Mrs Yordanova and her team on the good organisation of the Commission's work, on the operational and constructive work. I would also like to express my motives to our parliamentary group why we voted against the Commission report. We made proposals at the last Commission meeting to be put to the vote, but ultimately they did not vote. I'll tell you what they were. Firstly, the report is thirty-something pages long and finally there is only one paragraph in which the findings made by the Commission are recorded. What do I mean? We wanted to change the text in the Report, where it is written that there are doubts about the violations committed with the text there is evidence of violations committed. After detailed and comprehensive disclosure of the factual situation of the offences committed, following a description of the hearings held by the persons representing the State in the capital of the NDK for the period 2016 - 2017, who also reported evidence of infringement and non-subordination of the Executive Director Mr. Borshos to them, only one paragraph of findings in the Report, which said that:......................................................................................................... is.............................................................................................................. After all, that is why we created this Commission because we had doubts about violations!? In practice, we come back to this conclusion that there are such doubts about violations committed. The arguments of the President of the Commission were that the National Assembly is a legislative body, not an investigative body, but the truth is that during the Commission's work, data on violations appeared. We also wanted the report to specify exactly which competent authorities should be pronounced because it was written that the relevant competent authorities should be pronounced. In addition to the Court of Auditors, indicate the prosecution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the SANS and the Agency for State Financial Inspection. The other proposal: we insisted in the report to clarify the responsibilities of the Minister of Culture, the Minister of Finance and the Deputy Prime Minister for the European Presidency in order not to suppress the case of transferring responsibilities and correspondence between institutions, because we have all seen how the hot potato is transferred from one principal to another principal, from one institution to another institution. The third thing that we proposed and was not put to the vote was to give a specific deadline for presenting a detailed report on the violations found in the expenditure of the funds for the European Presidency by the National Assembly by the Minister of Culture, as the principal of the National Palace of Culture, and a detailed report on the checks by the Ministry of Finance, to which the Agency for State Financial Inspection is subordinate. We proposed this deadline to be 30 September 2017, but this proposal was also not allowed to vote. We wanted it to be clarified in the Report that the Executive Director of the NDK for the investigation period Miroslav Borschosh was invited and refused to appear before the Commission, submitted written explanations and by vote the Commission did not allow them to be annexed to the Report. It is not noted in the Report that the written explanations are not admitted by our vote and it is also not noted that the absence of Mr Borshos for a hearing in the Commission is a violation of art. 111 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For us, the Commission's disregard for Mr Borsosh is unacceptable. It has become clear, ladies and gentlemen, that in the past 28 years, Mr. Borchos has been the only one who has allowed himself to fail a parliamentary committee meeting. And last but not least, we of the.Voljas are not convinced of the objectivity of the Commission's work due to the fact that it was created on the principle of majority. You know, the offer of the importers was to create it on a pariah principle. In this way, we are the only party that has no connection to the management of the NDK during the period when these violations were committed, abuses during the reign of Mr. Borchos, and we have found ourselves with a single representative in the Commission. Members of Parliament, I would like to ask you a question or you may consider it a proposal. Taking into account that the National Palace of Culture is the largest cultural institution and is of great importance for good performance in the European Presidency of Bulgaria, should we not well unite everyone along with the idea of establishing a Public Council composed of representatives of creative unions to monitor the accompanying activities during the cultural events in connection with the European Presidency, in order to control the quality of these cultural events and their funding, so that it does not come to another temporary committee for misuse of funds and for these activities? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u222	Thank you, dear Mrs. Christova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Mr. Gechev. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u223	Dear Mrs. Chairman, please extend the time. Dear colleagues, this is not a kindergarten and it is pointless to make such outsmarts, since it is a general issue, you will see in a moment, over 70 million. lv. of Bulgarian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u224	Mr. Gechev, there are no outsmarts, you just didn't raise your hand in time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u225	Please don't interrupt me. I've taken the floor and I'll talk!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u226	Here you go, not in that tone. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u227	First, I would like to stop your attention in six points. The first question on which there is no answer in the report is about the mutually exclusive motives of the Bulgarian government. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very strange why the NDK as a ping-pong play goes from the Ministry of Culture to a second ministry, to a third ministry and goes back to the fourth ministry. Be assured that after the break there will be a number of questions to the leaders where are the reasons with which the Bulgarian government kicked as an empty Gourd NDK, which is the main physical object for holding the presidency of Bulgaria of the European Union. Moreover, as early as 2014, when Mr Rashidov left NDK for a profit of 9 million. BGN, goes on leave and behind it the Bulgarian government decides to transfer NDK to another principal. Why? Because Mr. Rashidov has requested a background check on the weird financial operations they've started playing at the NDK. I mean, how is it that the same government with radically different motives kicks the NPC just for one person?! Secondly, more than odd from European practice, that the Chairman of the Interdepartmental Council to understand is once again Mr. Borchos. Instead of Mr. Borsosh, Director of the National Palace of Culture, to be controlled by the government, he was appointed President of the Interdepartmental Council. A civil servant, director of a state firm, began to call and organise meetings of representatives of the ministers' political offices. A miracle of miracles in Europe and beyond! [[Reply.]] The head of the state firm sets meetings and controls himself as they run into the sands, or, more precisely, into someone's pockets, millions of dollars. Third place. Something interesting is happening on an interesting date 9 September 2016 is a day for the liberation of Mr. Borshos from all control by the Board of Directors. This is the day on which Mr. Borchos' financial freedom is donated and the rights of the Board of Directors are revoked. Because Deputy Prime Minister Donchev is making a single change, note in the company's statutes, only since 2011. I ask with only one sentence: what is it? It lowers the limit of 50,000. lv. without VAT, to which the Director of the National Palace of Culture may conclude contracts. That is, he is entitled to what the Prime Minister does not have and to spend as much as he wants, and that is exactly what he is doing during this period. The Deputy Prime Minister fired the Board of Directors because if the Board of Directors cannot control the financial costs, what does the Board of Directors do?! They drink coffee in the absence of Mr. Borchos who doesn't want to attend these meetings at all?! In fourth place. This director, Mr. Borsosh, became clear from the hearings of the people we had invited, played, humiliated and bullied with the other two members of the Board of Directors, with ministers, with deputy prime ministers, and finally made a fool of the Bulgarian Parliament. And here a number of questions arise: how is it that a person who, according to the data of the government of GERB, in 2014 takes over the management of the NDK with plus nine million? we start making elementary accounts and in 2015 is at minus nine million. Ladies and gentlemen, plus nine and minus nine is 18 million. lv. It's a difference. In 2016 another 9 million. lv. and only from January to May this year to 2017 he bequeathed 3.5 million. lv. a loss or 30 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. Note that until 2014 NDK was self-employed and this company did not take any lev from the Bulgarian budget. Fifth place. I would classify it as extremely interesting and, to begin with, the lawyers will say: what else is the behaviour of the Minister of Finance and the government. Note that the government provides NDK and after this change alone to Director Borchos 17 million. lv. without VAT. What have we established? The NPC had six accounts. A question of reduced difficulty: why has the Bulgarian government not obliged the company to have a special account but instead of a six, seventh account to see where the money is going? And the answer is: to go to the joint so that you can steal from him and that person who plays the prime minister monkeys, deputy prime ministers and ministers can report where you need to. How the Bulgarian government translates 17 million. lv. At a time when this person is making up about 30 million losses and at the time of the translation, colleagues, the NDK accounts have only 62 thousand. BGN, and is in fact bankrupt. A director brings you 30 million losses, his company is in actual bankruptcy, you don't make a special account, you pour 17 million into the common register. BGN, without any control. However, the Minister of Finance is also corrected for the new 28 million. BGN, who are about to be rushed to cover what has happened, now the Minister of Finance has correctly ordered: to monitor every penny, to transfer the money only for proven invoices on the costs associated with the Presidency. The question is: where was the government of GERB, where is the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, why didn't you control the first 17 million, and now we are looking for three and a half million, and of the other money spent we don't know where they went? In sixth place. A very strange playout of the situation with the NDK between the last prime minister, before the last, because there is also the last Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova and the Prime Minister. What is this government where the principal fires the director of the NDK? She told the whole of Bulgaria that she agreed with Prime Minister Borisov. After agreeing, what will be this divine power, which is above the divine prime minister, and the next day he returns Mr. Borsosh to the National Palace of Culture, so the conclusion of the report says: "There is doubt." Ladies and gentlemen, I've been contacted by many lawyers, judges, prosecutors, acquaintances who have told me that this is the biggest trap in the report. What doubts, ladies and gentlemen? We're talking about obvious facts, losses of 30 million, derby at the NDK, and you're saying they're doubts. No, there is no doubt that autumn is a vote of distrust and resignation. [[(Applause from the BSP for ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u228	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u229	All the time you said that, Mr. Gechev, I admired unapproachable, cruel, supported in fact. If it weren't for your last words, I'd say it's all in order to reveal the objective truth to make things better and to get a result. Your last words, however, sounded, as some say, so politicized that all my hopes in your good intentions have collapsed. Mr. Gechev, not everything is the work of the Commission. The Commission cannot decide, it is not a court or a special jurisdiction to decide who is wrong, who is right, who is guilty and who is guilty and how many years to hang in jail. Because with such a hero, who will soon get out of prison and told him the Top Man, the state could not fight him for years and after several years of trials I lay a little in prison, and now he will come out to eat his money, but to such a character even a little, only the court paid off what it deserved. Mr. Gechev, from this entire meeting for me to have an effect the effect will not come from the Commission over the term, you will continue to politicize yourself, to bloat in order to have a government's resignation, as you said in the fall, and if the government can fall. No, that won't be allowed, we're waiting for the presidency, don't waste your powder. Mr. Gechev, do you all agree that we should have asked for the Commission when I participated in such committees, I have made a proposal, the entire Commission report, together with the minutes of this meeting of the Prosecutor General. He has the floor! He will decide who is guilty by which text the compositions are incredibly many. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] As a lawyer, I can't list them right now. There are so many composite acts and so many guilty persons. There to question Mrs. Zlateva and the responsible...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u230	Mr. Shopov, the cue time is up. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u231	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Gechev, it is very nice when we speak to the pathos from this tribune, when yesterday the most moral in the country woke up. However, people remember and I am interested to ask you: at the time of the government of Jean Videnov, in which you participated as Deputy Prime Minister, and broke the state, to say [[noise, lines, shouts by BSP for Bulgaria.]] What condition did you leave NDK in then? I'm very interested to hear what state you left NDK in then, because you are the most moral, most objective, most honest?! [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by the United Patriarchs.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u232	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Third line, Mrs. Dukova. [[(Radio in the group of BSP for Bulgaria.) "Sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh-sh!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u233	Mrs. Chairman! [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Quiet!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u234	Please, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u235	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Gechev! I want to tell you two important things, very important things. Firstly, the Commission has certainly done a great deal of work! The Commission is working effectively, overtime, for many hours! The Commission has fulfilled its commitments which it had to clarify the objective facts and circumstances that took place during the time of several presidencies. This demagogy you carry from the stands will not be spared either in the past or in the present time. I know you're destructive in general. [[Radio in the BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] Your amplity is to search for dividing lines for you, it is a political credo. Looking for extreme battles and losing parliamentary energy for you is a political entity. Apropo, this report will not only be given, it is public, it will be where it should be. In addition, procedures and court cases have already begun. But with a reverse date, you must answer before going out on this stand, as I told you in the Commission: you are a very inappropriate mentor, Professor. Gechev. When a man like you stands and seeks financial justice, he must bury his head in the sand like an ostrich, because there is no answer to what he says. For the finale of my line I will say: you will not divert Bulgaria's path from its European integration. [[(Noise, shouts, raging in the BSP for Bulgaria.) Replies: "Search, weather!"]] Secondly, the NPC is an institution.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u236	Get it over with, Mrs. Dukova!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u237	The NPC is not just for the European Presidency! NDK is for the whole Bulgarian people! The NDK will continue to exist after the Presidency, which Bulgaria will achieve in dignity! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u238	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dukova. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u239	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Shopov's proposal is reasonable and has already been implemented. There's no way this isn't going to get to the Attorney General's office, as we're talking tens of millions of levs. There is no point in answering the other notes because I didn't hear a single line on the blatant facts. I will end just like this "to those characters who recognized themselves here and stole from the Bulgarian people tens of millions, I make the following recommendation: with my hands raised to go to the nearest unit of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u240	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Any other speeches? Colleagues, please raise your hand more vigorously so I can see who wants to speak so there are no further remarks. Here you are, Mrs. Krasteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u241	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues! Obviously, even the most disinterested in what is happening in parliament, it becomes clear that the weak implementation by putting the big, thick curtain on what happened in the National Palace of Culture, if it meets the theatre requirements to some extent, will still not be realized. I will only recall the postulate of Stanislavski, whom your leader also likes to quote, that when at the beginning of the performance on the wall hangs a rifle, it will surely explode until the end of the performance. You can't escape the truth about the NDK no matter how hard you try to do it. As a result of the work of the Temporary Commission, certain circumstances have become known and remain unknown exactly as many. I'll give you an example to make it easy for you. It is known that the NDK received 17 million for the Presidency and these 17 million are budget funds. It's unknown what they were used for. However, it is known who was single-handed with the 17 million. In fact, this is not just about the 17 million, but this is not the Commission's topic. I don't know how he's gonna take responsibility for the warrant! It is known that another 28 million have been allocated, it is unknown how much more the Bulgarian taxpayer will pay for the private ministry of culture. It is known that the NDK is not a cultural institute, it is unknown how this thing remained unknown to all involved in the affair and all who are trying to cover up the tracks. It's known there's no money in the NDK right now, and we don't know where the money is. It is known that the NDK affair has ruined Bulgaria's European image, it is unknown what else needs to happen to make it clear who is guilty and responsible! Finally, it is known that there is an umbrella on Borchos, what is left of your prime minister's giant patience? I sincerely hope that if it is not a result of addictions, the measures will be seen soon in a very definite way. Colleagues, the work of the Commission and GERB's policy all the time reminds the story of Christopher Columbus, who, when he left, did not know where he was going. When he got there, he didn't know where he was, and when he came back, he didn't know where he was. Thank you. [[(Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.) Claps by DPS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u242	Thank you, dear Mrs. Krasteva. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Radio, noise, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will not repeat the questions my colleagues have asked you regarding the report and what is lacking in it. I will not try to suggest to you that the doubts you have identified in the Report are actually the reason for this Commission to be established. And if you've stopped just doubting, then this Commission has done nothing, although we've read a report for a long time. In fact, I thank the President of the Commission for having the patience to read it. But what I want to say to you is that right now you are facing one choice and it is up to you whether it will be done properly and in the interests of the people or it will be another decision of yours that will cover the situation. The choice is simple and simple. Are we going to look for an answer to these questions that my colleagues have asked you and which have not really found their answer in the current Report, or are we going to leave it at that and, although unanswered to these questions in the Report, are going to hang with great force over you, colleagues? Above you, because you have brought matters to light. They happened to you. We didn't make an umbrella over Borchos, and you did this umbrella, or your government. Therefore, very briefly one more time I will tell you: think before you press the voting button whether this Commission should continue its work and parliament should really make a decision and write things that meet people's expectations, or you will press that button with which you will respond to our expectations as you always cover the situation and drop the curtain over your affairs. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u244	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Yordanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u245	Thank you, Madam President. Since the debate is extremely politicized, it is used here to be able to show the Members in the Chamber what they were actually practicing as speaking all the time, colleagues from the Commission of Research, they were repeating it to each other, repeating it to each other. We assumed they were rehearsing. Well, it turned out to be a fact, here you all already heard it. However, I propose that we return to the subject of the Commission's work. Yes, the report has been extremely long, we have tried to point out, including not for the members of the Commission, and for all Members of the Parliament, on the one hand, and on the other, for the whole society. Because it is public, it can be used by all competent authorities who consider that they could find additional data, facts, so that they can do their job to the end. I do not need to remind the MPs that there are ongoing investigative actions, there are accusations, so the judicial authorities are doing their job, the police are also doing their job. But back to the untruths here during this debate. First of all, in terms of regulations. Colleagues are asking why Mr. Borchos was left to spend some money like that. Well, colleagues, there's a board of directors. Since you are such great specialists, I would like to ask: why didn't you ask this question to your Deputy Prime Minister Zlateva? Why didn't she solve that question? Here's the charter she personally signed and approved. The Statute was approved by Denitsa Zlateva as Deputy Prime Minister for the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 with a date of 24 February 2017. The rights and obligations of the Executive Director of the Board of Directors are laid down in art. 35. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 There is no such restriction, that is, Mrs. Zlateva has not taken any measures in this regard. I'm moving on. Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, the next principal, wrote a letter dated 16 May 2017, indicating that the Executive Director should take all actions for, I quote: The date is 16 June. I stress, Minister Lilyana Pavlova! Statute of the National Palace of Culture, certified by date 6 July 2017, established by Minister Banov: 35, para. 6 suppose any one of you can make in the Trade Register. Enough facts I synthesized you in the Report, you could at least make an easy effort to establish that. The Executive Director shall conclude contracts worth 10 thousand. lv. only after a decision of the Board of Directors... at the time of Minister Banov. Well, I'm asking: why, since this is such a big problem, didn't your deputy prime minister do anything? We're moving on. The forensic and accounting expertise was exquisite, said Mr. Boychev, who, however, was to be completed in late August. Mr. Boychev, during the Commission I explained it to you, I will explain it to you once again. The accounting expertise is assigned as a result of the prosecution's work. Isn't that right? So people do their jobs. In addition, concerning the first tranche, which is actually a cash contribution to an increase in capital of 17 million. lv. It became very clear during the Commission's report, which is once again listed on page 28 for those who have not bothered to read or have not understood. It is clear that the difference that has been made public by the current executive director, I would like to emphasise, at the rate of 3 million. 569 thousand. 439,38 leva. She went to pay off other activities. Well, here is the work of both the Court of Auditors and the Agency for State and Financial Inspection and the prosecution to determine what these other activities are and why these 17 million have been paid out of this money. Are such amounts actually paid for other things or for something else? We're not an investigative body, I won't get tired of repeating it. We are, after all, a legislative body and I would like to remind the Members of the National Assembly. Another number, page 6, for guidance of colleagues. During the Commission, the question was repeatedly asked: how is 2 million paid and we did not say anything about the theatre? Well, colleagues, the amount for the theater is for making a conceptual model, execution, delivery, installation of mechanization, lighting, sound, chairs and so on. It's worth 2 million. 238 thousand. Three hundred and fifty-five. The amount requested by Mr. Borchos in all the bills he makes, and which, notice, is not approved either by the Deputy Prime Minister, then an observer and principal of the National Palace of Culture Mr. Donchev. It's not approved by Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova. The amount, if you had read it more carefully, to the Commission I told you, I turned your attention, you did not pay attention, it was approved by Deputy Prime Minister Zlateva. So ask your questions where you need to be. The hearing also made clear: the decision to conclude 50% additional contracts on construction works and other contracts is made during the time of Ms. Denitsa Zlateva. The four million expenses, which are not in construction works, but in other activities, are again in the time of Denitsa Zlateva. A proposal has been prepared by a working committee to be recognised as part of the construction activities. Those are facts. Whether coincidences, random or not, pleasant, unpleasant facts. Facts which confirmed in a hearing both the ministers who were principals and the executive, respectively, chairmen of the Board of Directors. In the hearing of Mr. Banov, he confirmed that on 2 May 2017 several days before the work of the caretaker government was completed and the new government was elected on 4 May 2017, pay attention to honourable Members, Deputy Prime Minister Denitsa Zlateva has granted discharge for the financial year 2016. Miroslav Borsosh and the other two members of the Board of Directors, and accepted the financial report for the same year. However, I would just like to inform my fellow Members that the Executive Director of the National Palace of Culture at that time, at the time of the service government, said the following: The financial statements for 2016 have not been discussed by the Board of Directors, due to the facts which I will shortly introduce to you and for this reason they have not been submitted to the principal, but the gentleman said that in the end 20 days later, I quote the words from the shorthand, Mrs. Zlateva accepts it. Why experts, experts, honor the people appointed by the respective Deputy Prime Minister, cannot, do not want to put their signatures on. Well because, honourable Members, the independent auditor and the IsaOdite LTD, which validates the Annual Financial Statement of the National Palace of Culture for 2016, expresses a qualified opinion, and I will tell you what this qualified opinion says. We did not receive sufficient confirmation from external sources of information about the balances on the accounts of the estimates with counterparties and we were unable to be reasonably convinced, including by applying alternative audit procedures, of the credibility of claims and liabilities at the date of the balance sheet. We were not able to determine whether adjustments would be made in relation to the reported or unaccounted estimates of elements contained in the statement of financial position, the statement of profits and losses, and so on. It is clear to fellow auditors, for non-specialists in ordinary Bulgarian means that the auditors have doubts, they cannot put their signature under whether these figures, due to insufficient information, correspond to the actual condition. So, honourable Members, when we go out and speak when we are trying to blame someone, something that is none of our business, it is good to look at our own yard first. These are facts and figures. I'll limit myself from here so I don't make a political statement. Those of you who know me know I can. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u246	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. - What's the line? Is there a line, Mr. Boychev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u247	I can't help but make a replica of Mrs. Yordanova's statement. I understand your concern about this topic and the desire to focus your attention on Denitsa Zlateva. There is no way that two years, a time during which these outrage occurred in the National Palace of Culture, could be justified by two months, a time during which Denitsa Zlateva was responsible for the National Palace of Culture. To be precise, Mrs. Yordanova, you are not honored to manipulate this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u248	I'm in control? With facts?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u249	Yeah. The facts are as follows: during these two months of Denitsa Zlateva were not approved, were not conducted, no public contracts were signed. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] At the time of the office were not approved, no additional expenses. What you're quoting... [[Reply by National Representative Diana Yordanova.]] I have listened carefully to you, and I have carefully read all the documentation on this case. What you are quoting is a report by the Interdepartmental Group, which establishes the deficit and describes the resources needed to be provided to adapt the building. It's even 36 million in one of these reports. He was sent to Denitsa Zlateva as Deputy Prime Minister and she left him to the next "Lilyana Pavlova" minister and Lilyana Pavlova with Minister Goranov prepare the report to the Council of Ministers, on the basis of which the decision on the additional 28 million is made. lv. And if you draw up here a document which is signed by Denitsa Zlateva, who is signed by her for these additional expenses, not the report of the Interdepartmental Group signed, I will go out and apologize to you. It's not right to manipulate the room with these facts.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u250	Get it over with, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u251	Thus also Denitsa Zlateva has appointed the President of the Board of Directors, which you are quoting and who says that Protocol No 3, which is uploaded to the Commercial Register and approved documents, does not exist, which means that the Deputy Prime Minister was most likely misled, giving him the signing of a document which is essentially... [[Heckling]] I say what was said in the Commission, by the people who...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u252	Do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber, Mr. Boychev. Thank you. Time's up. You've said enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u253	Finally, did they request the report of the Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers? Was the report of the Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers presented to us...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u254	Mr. Boychev, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u255	... appointed by order of Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u256	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Second line? I don't see a second line, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u257	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Boychev, if we had been worried there wasn't, you know very well that we have a majority, according to the will of the Bulgarian people and we would not have created such a Commission. However, since we have no concerns, we have accepted, we have worked hard enough, you know very well this to bring out absolutely all the facts and circumstances. You're misbehaving with the line that I'm manipulating this room. If the release of facts, data, I read a report specifically, if it's manipulation, then health him. Maybe for BSP... You, because whatever you see depends on the situation, in one case it is manipulation, the other is true. Besides, I didn't mention anything, you can check with the transcript that public procurement has been approved. I quoted a statement from Minister Banov during a hearing in the Commission that unfortunately the costs were approved by Mrs. Zlateva...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u258	Did you check?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u259	Free, unwitting, but these are facts.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u260	Those aren't facts. They're allegations.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u261	I'm not an investigative body, sir, who you call from the room disrespectfully. In addition, colleagues, you know very well, once again that certain investigative actions are being conducted. All the documents that we had, just to inform my colleagues, were over 12 classors with documents, exclusively all the documentation for the time 2016 - 2017, when these actions took place, was provided to the MPs, and if they had the desire, they could easily get acquainted with it. Unfortunately, I won't mention names, but a very small part of my colleagues, perhaps in an hour or two, were able to spend time and get acquainted. So these are facts, however unpleasant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u262	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yordanova. For your speech, Mrs. Taskova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u263	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, another debate that we at Volja....are watching and in which we can tell you. [[turns to GERB parliamentary group]] , you [[turned to the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]] That you're moving your ball again. No one wants to be held responsible in this country. You must have real amnesia because of you. [[turns to GERB parliamentary group]] You have over one million voters, you [[turned to the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]] A little less than a million people have sent you here and trusted you here to make real decisions. We created the Commission because we had doubts about abuse and we ended the Commission with doubts about abuse. [[Radio.]] This is the result of the National Assembly's work and this is why Parliament has this low rating. Why wasn't the Inspector's report provided? Why was the State Financial Inspection Report not provided? Why doesn't anyone want to get to the truth? We will support the extension of the Commission's deadline because we want the truth about the NDK. [[Comments from GERB, applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov. [[Heckling]] Do not restrict the freedom of speech of colleagues. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u265	Tell them, Madam Chairman, remind them of it to their colleagues. Dear Mrs. Taskova, clarification and a reply to your speech. We have repeatedly asked the Commission to present the report by the Chief Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers "40 pages, which already have a lot of people, but we do not have them in the Commission. Thank you for your support for the extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u266	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Do we have any other lines to Mrs. Taskova's statement? I can't see. For the back, Mrs. Taskov? No. Other speeches, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Bikov. [[Radio and shouts "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria".]] What is this universal joy with your appearance I do not know. How do you influence your colleagues? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u267	Madam President, honourable Members! There are several facts beyond all the facts that have been mentioned here, and I will not repeat them. Mrs. Yordanova quite correctly announced the whole picture that we were not worried about. One political fact is that Mr. Borchos was fired during the current government. During the current government, a report was made on the activities of the NDK, on the basis of which the prosecution also pressed charges against Mr. Borchos. Here, many BSP colleagues have spoken since morning that we are worried that this topic is very stressful for us. If so, first of all, this Commission would not exist at all. I will recall, and this is the second political fact that this Commission was created with our votes. Because we have no concern for ourselves or the responsibility we bear. With us the political responsibility is personal, it is not collective. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's your favourite.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u268	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u269	That's why your party hasn't won elections in a long time. Because you prefer to blur the responsibility and such a case, such as the one with Borshos, has never happened in your time, except for the small drama with Mrs Cornelia Ninova and Rumen Ovcharov since 2008, when they had to drag them one or two months in the media while taking them down. And blame them afterwards. But that was in spite of you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] From now on, what I have heard, and during the Commission meetings, and during today's sitting, is your double standard. You stand in the position of moral workers when you talk about someone else who is not of your collective responsibility. The double-arshin marries. In the framework of this Parliament, you also showed it with the notorious Nazi scandal, when you were here for a month, that the United Patriarchs were Nazis, then the President turned out to be with an advisor with Nazi greetings you all kept quiet. And you're still silent. When you judge Mr. Donchev, you should judge Mrs. Zlateva. Mr. Donchev, unlike Mrs. Zlateva, said within the Commission: "I was wrong. My mistake was not firing Borschosh. He said it. Mrs. Zlateva didn't say that. Do you know what she said yesterday? He said a principal couldn't know about everything that happened at the NDK. Unlike her, you say that a prime minister should know everything that is happening in the National Palace of Culture, that a prime minister should rule the National Palace of Culture, that this should be his main task and main activity. And be aware of every penny, every penny. Why did Borisov bring Borshos back, as you patheticly say,.................................................................................................. Borshoche was fired from Lilyana Pavlova and came up with a point of view of intelligence, culturtrectors and so on and people who are engaged in art, who on Facebook, in the media said: "How do you remove this wonderful person? He did great things! Our Commission, one month we are dealing with this case and you are today proposing that we extend the time because you have not fully met. Do you think Borisov, within one night, can get acquainted with this whole case? And that's why he says, "Okay, let's stop, let's see, maybe there are some other arguments." And maybe he heard both sides. After that, Mr. Borchos retired from the NDK. By the way, just as Mr. Zhivko Martinov withdrew from parliament yesterday. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Unlike other colleagues whose responsibility is now the responsibility of your entire party. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] To your entire party! That's why the double arsin you're exhibiting is clear. I didn't expect anything else. We, with a clear mind, accepted this Commission to function, even though we knew that it would serve as a stage, as Mrs. Krasteva quoted Stanislavski, for a stage where you could go out in colorful clothes and with make-up faces, and start acting like Georgi Dimitrov of the Leipzig Process. We knew that. However, we have given you the opportunity to speak for a month. We can't give you any more time. Why? Because the Bulgarian Presidency is coming. I know what your goal is. Your goal is to extend the Commission, if we can in September, in October, in November, to talk about NDK in December; the NDK to be the symbol of the Bulgarian Presidency; to deal with tiles, toilets, who has done what while the prosecution is dealing with it. Why bother with us when we have a prosecutor? There were arguments here: why have we not given judgment in our report? Because it's not an indictment, and it's not a judgment for that. How do we execute a verdict? However, your political goal is, and I am therefore very skeptical of your statements that the European Presidency is your priority and that you are ready for national agreement on this subject. It's not like that. After the first meeting, Prof. Gechev came out and said: "The European Presidency will be taken away from us. You lied. You lied directly. After the first Commission meeting, it was as if something like this had been said there. Then it turned out that they had to throw us out of the European Union to take away our presidency. False news. The BSP said the NDK would not be ready for the presidency. Then the ministers came and said he'd be ready. I'm lying again. You want to talk about how we want to cover up some stuff in the report. It's all in the report. You are now saying that we do not want to extend the Commission's time. We don't want to extend it because there's nothing more to do. And we have no intention of participating in the script that you have prepared so that you can possibly hypothetically return to power. It will not happen this way, and you must have understood it from the previous elections the more destructive and aggressive you play, the less votes you will win in elections. [[Applause from GERB.]] It's not a win-win tactic. You use this topic for political propaganda. And there's the prosecution again. There are charges of a man you claim to be ours. Let's say it's ours. So no one's got ours, no one's got yours right now. So we're accusing our people and sending them to court and there's the prosecution and the court to decide. Who did you send to court? You're usually sent to court after you fall out of power. Unfortunately, you're rarely judged. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And that's why we bring here some time unnecessary debates. Let us end this matter within the National Assembly. I think enough effort has been made, the report is correct. I urge you to support him. My colleagues from Volja, I see that they have already joined the three-way opposition. They are, aren't they, BSP, DPS and Volya are in some kind of symbiosis. [[Heckling]] If they decide at least to support it, but it is not worth asking for a Commission, then to reject a report that does not contradict anything you have said. You wanted Boyko Borisov to shout. I told you, let us also call Jean Claude-Juncker, because perhaps he is also responsible for the National Palace of Culture, because he is President of the European Commission. [[Radio.]] Let's stop with these widgets. We can make it to the end of the day, we can caricatrate ourselves, ultimately suffer the rating of the National Assembly. It's suffering. That's why he's short, because we allow ourselves more than we have to. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u270	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Here you go, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u271	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bikov, you are right in the same party we have a collective memory. I can tell you that when the NPC was built, it cost the state 270 million then leva. [[Comments from GERB. A line from the National Representative Diana Yordanova.]] I can't answer that. Look for him as the Commission, so there's...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u272	Do not engage in dialogue with the House, colleague. Mr. Nedyalkov, talk about this.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u273	Madam President of the Commission, there is one more point for which the Commission must be extended. At that time, 30 million were collected from the people of Sofia. lv. And every sophian had to give one day. We have this memory. [[Heckling]] It can be appreciated any way, but we do. You, Mr. Bikov, don't have that memory because you weren't just in the same party you're in now. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u274	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Mr. Boychev or Mr. Velkov? Which one of you is gonna make a line? Here you go, Mr. Velkov. Then Mrs. Taskova. [[Heckling]] And a personal explanation after the back, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u275	Thank you, Madam President. I'll limit myself to one minute, and given the fact that if I start talking about working at the NDK, I'm in a conflict of interest. You all know why. [[Noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Diana Yordanova.]] Please, Mrs. Yordanova, you were against the Sign Language Act, and you are fluent in it. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u276	She complimented you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u277	Let me tell you this. I'm provoked by what Mr. Bikov said. Mr. Bikov, there are only two things I can tell you about personal and collective responsibility. You claim that you have personal responsibility, and the entire collective in Dobrich because of some Sudjuks went to hell. [[Laughter]] It's a collective responsibility. And another. You know very well... [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Dukova, it's a gesture. You know very well that you, at the first stage of the Commission proposal, were against it. And you were ordered to agree to such a Commission. You know by whom. [[Noise and lines.]] Ask me how do I know? From him. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) It's a thrill. (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u278	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Mrs. Taskova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u279	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Bikov, don't sew us into coalitions. [[Loud noise and lines. Announcements by GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u280	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u281	This will not help the ruling majority. She has stated that she is in a coalition only with the Bulgarian people and that is why we want truth about the National Palace of Culture. [[Loud noise and lines. Revelations: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u282	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. For the coat, Mr. Bikov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u283	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr Nedyalkov! Memory is a very serious issue that I probably won't be able to discuss with you in 30 seconds. I have a memory, and I have a family memory, and a personal memory, and I remember a lot. I even read things about it when I wasn't born. What's the report on the construction of the NPC, I don't know. I haven't seen him. I heard from Mrs. Yordanova that he was burned. We can't investigate it if you want us to do the Commission on this. [[Noise and lines.]] For Mr. Velkov. It's a personal responsibility in Dobrich again. I wouldn't mind at all, but he's important because he's talking about attitude. You can never let go of the Sujuka, that's the big problem for you. You can't let him go. [[Applause from GERB. Replices.]] And that's the difference between you and me. We were ordered? By whom were we ordered to set up the Commission? From Mrs. Ninova?! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Was it ordered by Mrs. Ninova?! [[Replys: from who?]] By Mr. Borisov, for example, if we were ordered to. He is the leader of GERB, not the leader of BSP. So we had the will to create this Commission. I don't see where the contradiction is. [[(Replyes: "Volja". It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, ……]] And Mrs. Taskova... [[Heckling]] No, you have the will. She's yours. [[(Laughter) Applause by GERB.)]] Mrs. Taskova, in your cases, we're judging you, not by whether or not... You're very sympathetic otherwise, but you're just constantly voting with BSP and DPS on all occasions. Just because you want to be in a coalition with the Bulgarian people does not mean that the Bulgarian people want to be in a coalition with you. [[Applause from GERB. Revelations: "Bravo! "]] And that's what the election results show. Thanks for the lines, though. I hope, once again, that we will call for this topic to be completed within Parliament and I hope that it does not end within the court. However, let us be quick to resolve this case so that we can move forward. Once again, I am convinced that within this government there will be no compromises for anyone for yours or ours. And Mr. Velkov, I'd like to congratulate you on his son's work at the NDK. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u284	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. There's a personal explanation from Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u285	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bikov! With respect, my dear young colleague, you have shown an impractical nature that is important. I have never said anything and I do not want to take away the presidency of Bulgaria. I would like to assure you that, personally, my colleagues and I would be delighted if the Presidency went well. I mean it the most and I've shown it. So we can be taken away from the Presidency, however, and that is why we are concerned, because at the moment, a fellow Member, there is an undeniable fact, and it is that the technical project is not established at 4:00 on July 27th, that is, in the remaining 4-5 months, God knows whether it will be possible to do so in the NDK what will happen. That's what I'm talking about. In conclusion, which concerns your lines and your address to me, it is nice to be a good artist, but in an advertisement it says, it does not concern you personally, that other than artistry, a colleague. [[Replications. Announcements by GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u286	That was rude at the end, but nothing. Thank you, Mr. Gechev. In the manner of holding "Atanas Kirilov," then to speak Mr. Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u287	Madam President, honourable Members! In relation to art. 145, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 147, which concerns the declaration and declaration of conflict of interest on the issues discussed, which concern votes, speeches and debates, please exercise your powers on this article in relation to colleague Toma Bikov in his capacity as adviser to Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova and Prime Minister Borisov in the phase of the most active discussion of the process of the Bulgarian Presidency and the establishment of where the place will be. I think, colleague Bikov, that it is not ethical in your capacity to teach us now. Please, Madam President, exercise art. 145, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 147. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u288	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. It was a procedure in the manner of conduct. Here you go, and you do the procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u289	Madam President, don't let any suggestion be made! I do not know Mrs. Bachvarova, and within this month, if someone comes out and tells me that Bachvarova was present somewhere in the Commission documentaryly, factually and so on, I would be surprised.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u290	It's mental.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u291	I don't know what the conflict of interest is. Like Prime Minister Borisov, there is not a single signature. And otherwise, for conflict of interest, I have seen a lot of MPs with severe conflict of interest discussing topics that... But I won't tell. I won't tell!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u292	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Tsonev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u293	Thank you, Madam President. It was not part of my plans, honourable Members, to speak on this subject, as my colleagues have said all the arguments thoroughly enough, but Mr. Bikov's huge desire to express himself last caused some expectations that he would say very serious things in our country. [[GERB's line.]] Of course he's entitled to a personal explanation. I felt it necessary to make that statement. Quite inaccuracies, which are not quite safe, there was in Mr. Bikov's statement and as far as he spoke on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB, it is not bad to say them by this tribune. GERB is not worried about this case because Mr. Borchos was fired during this cabinet. The Commission was created with the participation and vote of the majority of GERB. Honorable colleagues from GERB! You should be worried because this is a big corruption scandal, which is glued on you, on governance and not only in Bulgaria, but has a European hue and response. Because Mr. Borchos, to remind you, Mr. Bikov, was appointed in 2014. During the cabinet Borisov 2, and has done these things all two years of government of the cabinet Borisov 2. I am very far from thinking of bringing some guilt to the political party GERB or to the prime minister, but the most logical thing is to let this process develop to the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u294	From the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u295	To develop until the end, because the political party GERB is not a Teflon pan not to stick anything to it and no one is one of the political parties. It is about whether the prosecution and what you have done as a reference to the report should not contain accusations because it is not an indictment or a court decision, to remind you that the Commission is asking you to look at previous reports of committees of inquiry with what findings they end up with. There are many where it is said that the Commission believes that an infringement has been committed on this and this case as well as in fact. There was no need for that to happen. It would not be unnecessary to consider extending the Commission's term without politicising, because you have seen that there was no politicisation in the speeches made by colleagues from the DPS parliamentary group. We just need Parliament and you, especially you, to show that it is going to end, and this report to be with findings, with clear findings.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u297	No, no, there are no clear findings. There's just a list of who-what said and who-what... [[GERB lines.]] Not like that! There are findings of obvious violations and Parliament is therefore making an inquiry committee. This is why it is called an inquiry to reach some results to announce to the plenary and to the Bulgarian society. So don't say you don't have any worries. There's gotta be some worries. By the way, we have all worries because if these things are proven, it is a stain on the face of the whole of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from SG to DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u298	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Any lines to Mr. Tsonev's statement? Here you go, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u299	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I'll be very brief, you won't have to leave the room. At least, not this time! Mr. Tsonev, in 1998 you and Petya Shopova were chairman of a committee investigating the collapse and draining of banks. Is that right? You have investigated what some people will call the crimes of that man, who has spoken several times "Roumen Gechev." There is no conclusion in this report that they must be brought to justice. Am I right? The report's on my laptop, and I'm gonna print it out and give it to you. So, when you recommend something to us from GERB, follow that tradition that you yourself did then, in 1998 " 1999." Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u300	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. Second line? Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u301	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Tsonev, your statement was undoubtedly in a constructive dialogue. You have always tried to speak professionally without unnecessary politicisation, so I will try so constructively to answer you and give you a line. There's a very sad story that in our reality always repeats non stop, and that's that what we do ourselves, there's no one else to do it to us. Without being the lawyer of either Mr Borsosh or of the colleague whose resignation we voted yesterday, on the eve of the Presidency of the European Union, a very important moment for our country and for our validation in the European family, we want somehow, but if we can, on the eve itself, in the Presidency and during the whole Presidency, talk about the topic NDK, tiles, not to say other words and so on. After all, there are institutions. A democratic state is based on the fact that when someone is wrong, when someone has exceeded their powers, when they are involved in corruption schemes, there are bodies to investigate and judge whether they are wrong or not. We ourselves in this case, extending this agony, because this is agony, given that there is also a case against Mr. Borsosh in the prosecution's case against Mr. Borsosh, whether he is guilty or not, time will show, but the very fact that we are dealing on the eve and continue to agonize on this subject, of course there is no international response that you have mentioned, because we are thus exposing ourselves to the people who expect us to hold a dignified Presidency. I am convinced that Bulgaria will be a really good chairman and instead of the coming months to do everything possible to make Bulgaria present itself dignified, not to detail ourselves precisely in such a topic, given that there are working institutions, I believe that they will judge without being a lawyer of any kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u302	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Third line? Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u303	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Tsonev! There will be a stain on Bulgaria if there is evidence of Mr. Borsosh's crimes and he is acquitted. Then there'll be a stain to prove it. What Mr. Borchos has done also happens in other countries, and this is not a stain for the state. Such abuses and suspicions of abuse exist everywhere. That's why there's a court of law, so let the court speak. Otherwise, the report states the following: In conclusion, the Members of the National Assembly agreed that, on the basis of the hearings carried out, and on the basis of the documentation submitted from the checks carried out to competent authorities, there were doubts about the infringements committed, but the relevant competent authorities should be pronounced on this issue. I don't see what else can be written in this report. And it's written, and we're united, it's written inside. However, we are not very united because your representatives voted against. And the BSP voted against. If we extend the Commission, will we unite around something more radical, or will we soften this?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u304	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u305	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Todorov, in the report in question, and in the work of the Commission, there were very clearly stated by me the reasons that led to the banking crisis at the time. Refinancing will only say one of them so that I do not waste time on colleagues, because I remember very well. The refinancing that the Central Bank has carried out to numerous banks, including private banks, is without it being regulated without necessarily being caused by the relevant checks and by the implementation of the relevant documents on which the regulations of BNB and the BNB Act must be made. The persons in the course of the debate who carried out this refinancing were also mentioned because then it turned out that refinancing had been carried out literally every week with money from the reserve of BNB that was the main reason, and it was pointed out there. If you wish, we can speak quite professionally on this subject, but not in plenary. To the other colleagues, yes. I agree with Mr. Nenkov that Bulgaria should not be klepped. We must do our job and Bulgaria must not be lopped before the European institutions, but I will remind you of this when you are not ruling, but when you are opposition. Because when you are opposed, such clemency falls on your side that I simply will not have the time of the entire parliamentary group to tell you all the cases of clemency. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] However, I agree with you that this practice is wicked and it is damaging to our country. I have nothing to say to Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u306	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. There's a personal explanation from Mr. Gechev. [[Voices "Eeeee!" by GERB.]] His name was pronounced. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u307	Easy, guys, easy! Honourable Members, Mrs. Chairman! I reacted because I am upset by Mr. Todorov's statement for the following reason: not only do I have nothing to do with any... No one has allowed themselves to drain banks personally, but I would like to say to Mr. Todorov: Mr. Todorov, just you, who, in the harshest of words, called your colleagues a cripple, and you are standing in the center of the pack to suck wages every month, are you the moral officer?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u308	Mr. Gechev! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u309	And secondly, my parents are retired teachers, decent people, and your family is half the prison mine, Todorov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-27.u310	Mr. Gechev, please, not personal attacks from the stands! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please take your seat. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Quiet, please! Moving on to voting procedure. [[Loud noise. Replies between the MPs Rumen Gechev and Anton Todorov.]] Mr. Gechev! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Quiet, please! Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, we will vote on the proposal to extend the Commission's action, which was presented by Mr. Boychev and a group of MPs by the end of September 2017. Vote 196 MPs: 92 against 103, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. Let's move on to the next vote. Project! DECISION on the report on the activities of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances in the expenditure of funds allocated to the NDK for preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the activities of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances in the expenditure of funds allocated to the NDK for preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Please vote. We are currently voting on the second draft for the adoption of the report. Vote 196 MPs: for 105, against 91, there is no abstention. The motion is accepted. Parliamentary control announcements on 28 July 2017, Friday 11.00 hours. 1. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer a question from MPs Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski. 2. The Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov will answer 10 questions from the MPs Ivo Hristov; Georgi Svilenski and Hristo Prodanov; Stefan Apostolov, Daniela Saveklieva, Georgi Dinev, Alexander Matsurev and Dimitar Gamishev; Krasimir Sabev and Borislav Borisov; Yulian Papashimov and Rumen Genov; Valentina Naydenova; Georgi Yordanov; Spas Panchev; Bogdan Botsev and Nikolay Boshkov and two questions from the MPs Ilian Timchev, Georgi Jordanov and Valentina Naydenova; and Georgi Yordanov. 3. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer two questions from the MPs Martin Tinchev and Dimitar Alexandrov; Daniela Maleshkova and Vladimir Valev. 4. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer four questions from the MPs Dora Yankova; Anelia Klisarova; Veska Nencheva; Jaihan Ibryamov and two questions from the MPs Anelia Klisarova, Ivo Hristov, Nikolay Tsonkov and Stoyan Mirchev; Halil Letifov, Errol Mehmed, Sergei Kichikov and Ihsan Halil. 5. The Minister of Culture Boyl Banov will answer five questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova; Stoyan Mirchev; Zhelyo Boychev 6. The Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer two questions from the MPs Dimitar Stoyanov, Nikolay Tishev, Petar Kanev and Todor Bajchev two questions. 7. Interior Minister Valentin Radev will answer two questions from the MPs Violeta Jelev; and Hristo Grudev. 8. Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer a question from MPs Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski and a question from MPs Ivan Valentinov and Georgi Svilenski. 9. Economy Minister Emil Karanikolov will answer one question from the MP Gergana Stefanova. 10. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the MPs Vesela Lecheva and Ivan Chenchev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Procedure adjourned replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to a question with a written answer from the MP Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to a question by the National Representative Adlen Shevked; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to two questions from the MPs Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev; and Jayhan Ibryamov and one question with a written answer from the MPs Filip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; - Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 Lilyana Pavlova to a question by the National Representative Velislava Krasteva; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to two questions from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov - two questions with written answer from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov; Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the National Representative Ivan Ibrishimov to the Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov; - a question from the National Representative Donka Simeonova to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev; - three questions from the MP Miglena Alexandrova to the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev; and to the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will not participate; Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov; and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov. I am adjourning today's plenary session. Tomorrow is a regular meeting, 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
