ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members, I suggest to your attention the National Assembly's Work Programme for 7 and 8 September 2017, which was discussed and supported by the Conference of Presidents: "1." Projects of decisions on changes to Standing Committees. Importers svetan Tsvetanov, Snezhana Dukova and Daniela Saveklieva, 26 July 2017; Snezhana Dukova, 27 July 2017. 2. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Property. Importers - Alexander Matsurev and a group of MPs, 12 July 2017 3. First vote on a bill amending the Law on Radio and Television. The representatives of the National Assembly Vecdi Rashidov, Stanislav Stanilov, Stefan Danailov, Velislava Krasteva, Erjan Ebatin and Boryana Georgieva, 7 July 2017. 4. Draft Law on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Morocco. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 20 July 2017 5. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme Bulgaria "Serbia STI 2014TS16I5W007 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Serbia." Importer of the Council of Ministers, 29 June 2017 6. Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016 Importer 7. Parliamentary control tomorrow, September 8, 2017, with an opening time of 9:00 p.m. Please vote. Vote 159 MPs: 149, none, abstention 10. Our work program has been accepted. Messages: Bills and draft decisions submitted from 1 to 5 September 2017: On 1 September 2017, a Draft Law for Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions was adopted. Importers "Anelia Klisarova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Health is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 5 September 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land was adopted. The representatives of the National Assembly are Yordan Apostolov, Boris Yachev and Christian Mitev. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. In August on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act in the National Assembly received the following reports for the implementation of the programming budgets in the first half of 2017: 1. of the Council of Ministers; 2. of the Ministry of Tourism; 3. of the Ministry of Finance; 4. of the Ministry of Justice; 5. of the Ministry of Health; 6. of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry; 7. of the Ministry of Youth and Sports; 8. of the Ministry of Culture; 9. of the Ministry of Interior; 10. of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy; 11. of the Ministry of Economy; 12. of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; 13. of the Ministry of Environment and Water; 14. of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks. 15. of the State Agency "National Security" 16. of the State Agency of Technical Operations. 17. of the State 18. of the Department of Electronic Management. The reports are made available to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 July 2017. "24 August 2017 and Protocol No 36 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and was available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the sending of soldiers from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to participate in a joint multinational exercise in Ukraine for the period from 7 to 24 September 2017. No 703-09-33 of 5 September 2017 and was granted to the Defence Committee. In August the National Statistical Institute in the National Assembly received information about: - a general index of producer prices in industry and indexes of producer prices on the domestic and international markets in the industry for June 2017; - the business climate in industry, construction, retail and services in July 2017; - the consumer surveillance carried out in July 2017; - R & D indexes in the Section of Retail Trade, excluding car and motorcycle trading in June 2017; - indexes of industrial production in June 2017; - indexes of construction production in June 2017; - average monthly salary and list of employees in employment and employment for the second quarter of 2017; - Consumer Price Indexes for July 2017; - the main results of the labour force monitoring in the second quarter of 2017; - Gross domestic product for the second quarter of 2017 "Express assessments'; - the business climate in industry, construction, retail and services in August 2017; - a total producer price index in the industry and a producer price index in the domestic and international markets in the industry for July 2017; - Gross domestic product in the second quarter of 2017; - labour productivity, employed persons and spent time for the second quarter of 2017. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We're starting with the points we just accepted on our work program. The first one is: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS. The first proposal: "On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 85, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly we are submitting a draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. We ask the draft decision to be submitted for consideration and voting in accordance with the established order. They suggest the following. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Teodora Radkova Georgieva as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. 2. He elected Georgi Zaprev Dinev as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Colleagues, you have the floor for speeches on the draft decision. There are no speeches. I put to the vote your proposed draft decision. They voted 147 MPs: 142, none, abstention 5. The draft decision has been adopted. Next: "On the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 85, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we are submitting a draft decision for a change in the composition of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. In this regard, they propose the following: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Georgi Zaprev Dinev as a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. 2. He elected Teodora Radkova Georgieva as a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. You have the floor, honourable Members, for speeches. There are no speeches. I put to the vote your proposed draft decision. Vote 148 MPs: for 145, against none, abstention 3. The draft decision has been adopted. And the latest draft decision on a change in the composition of a permanent committee: 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I submit a draft decision to fill the composition of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Agriculture and Food The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Georgi Tenev Stankov as a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? I won't. I put to the vote your proposed draft decision. They voted 153 MPs: 146, none, abstention 7. The draft decision has been adopted. The next item on our agenda is: In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation. Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. You will be introduced to him by the People's Representative Dimitar Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Agriculture and Food for the First Voting on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Property, No 754-01-44, submitted by Alexander Matsurev and a group of MPs on 12 July 2017. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 26 July 2017, discussing a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Property Conservation Act, No 754-01-44, submitted by Alexander Matsurev and a group of MPs on 12 July 2017. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the National Representative Alexander Matsurev. The bill proposes the penalty provided under the current provision for individuals who have released animals through agricultural land and thus caused damage to agricultural property, to the owners who have released or allowed animals to be released through agricultural land. In addition, the amount of the penalty is increased and it is also intended to impose on sole traders and legal entities. According to importers, the changes will facilitate the establishment of the subject of the infringement and contribute to increasing the responsibility of farmers to carry out effective controls on shepherds. The Committee on Agriculture and Food has received an opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, which have no further comments and suggestions. In the subsequent discussion, MPs from all parliamentary groups expressed principled support for the proposed changes, while making a number of remarks. In the parliamentary group, the United Patriarchs pointed out that, between first and second reading of the bill, similar sanctions should be provided for all who cause damage to agricultural production, giving an example to drivers of wood-borne motor vehicles that cause no less damage, passing through agricultural land. From the parliamentary group "BSP" for Bulgaria, note that there are a number of texts that should be refined and synchronized between the two readings of the Bill and that a line should be provided for by which persons who have suffered damage should be compensated. In addition, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria proposed an additional opinion on the substance of the proposals. From the parliamentary group, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and stated that in view of the archaic nature of many of the texts, the entire Law should be refined. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 20 votes for the European Council, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Protection of Agricultural Property, No 754-01-44, submitted by Alexander Matsurev and a group of MPs on 12 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Who's going to brief us on the motives of the bill? Here you are, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the current provision of art. 40, para. 1, t. 2 of the Agricultural Property Conservation Act provides a fine from 200 to 500 BGN for a person who, without having the right, releases animals through agricultural land and has caused damage to agricultural property. Thus, the fine is imposed solely on the person who committed the infringement, i.e. the person who released the animals and not their owner, when they are different persons. In most cases, it is extremely difficult for the employees of municipal administrations to track down the perpetrator of the act, as animals are released to grazing in the early morning hours and often leave them unattended until their return. This makes it impossible to prove in an indisputable way which person released the animals, especially when no one else took them. In practice, in the event of an infringement, officials from the municipal administration most often find the presence of animals not accompanied by a specific person, and the cases where the control authorities have a direct suspect or a witness indicate a direct perpetrator are very rare. Thus, due to the lack of evidence to establish the subject of the infringement, the offenders remain unpunished and the owners of agricultural animals who bear administrative criminal responsibility at present are not sufficiently motivated to carry out effective controls on shepherds. This, in turn, gives the impression of a lack of control and of an adequate public response to the violations committed both in society and in farmers who have suffered damage. In this regard, we have proposed amendments to the law providing for a penalty for the owners of agricultural animals themselves who have directly released the animals or have committed such an infringement. We also propose that this sanction be imposed not only on individuals, but on sole traders and legal entities, as at present animal owners may be both natural and legal persons and sole traders. In our view, this will contribute to more effective performance of the control activities by employees in municipal administrations, who will have a real opportunity to identify offenders. The public needs to implement adequate measures against offenders will be met. In addition, increasing the responsibility of the animal owner will result in a significant reduction in cases of infringements and damage to agricultural property. Last but not least, the introduction of the proposed changes will have a favourable financial effect on municipal budgets, insofar as it will be allowed for municipal authorities and employees to identify in an indisputable manner the offenders and issue criminal decrees to be defended before the court in the event of an appeal, which is not the case at present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u5	Thank you, dear Matsurev. We're moving on to speeches. I'm opening the debate, colleagues. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! The discussion of changes in the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Property is important, and we have approached with extremely thorough discussion in our parliamentary group, what is the aim of this bill and how the problem is solved. Firstly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this bill is from 1974, and even inside there are texts that raise serious doubts about the applicability of some of this legislation and this law in force, and hardly with such cosmetic changes will be able to solve the problems related to the conservation of agricultural property. Stressing that the issue is serious, I would like to say that the changes that are being proposed will create far more new problems than solving the one that importers of the bill want and present to our attention. The increase of the administrative penalty is envisaged, i.e. the owners of animals to pay a penalty of 200 to 500 BGN for first infringement and from 600 to 1000 BGN with each subsequent infringement. That is to say, it is the owner who will be responsible for the acts committed during the implementation of the animal farming activity. Here at least two questions arise: firstly, animal owners will be sanctioned twice. According to the current law of animal owners, animals must be taken away from them. This text is not repealed in the law and a second time, there must be an administrative penalty. I believe that in the conditions in which especially small and small farms are developed in Bulgaria, this will be an extremely severe punishment for animal owners. Apart from that, the bill does not distinguish between how many owners the fine will be paid. Most often pasture livestock means that you have collected animals from many owners. Each owner will pay 300 leva? There is no answer to this question in the bill. From this point of view, the questions are much more in this part for the owners than the decision that has been found. Another question, as well as the problem we are putting, relates to the Polish roads. In many places, there are no Polish roads to provide access to the places to which this activity is to take place. What do we do from now on? How do we solve this issue because they don't have access? Third problem: those who have destroyed the property will receive compensation. In the law there is no written procedure how this compensation is made, there are no additional legal acts to describe it. From now on, we ask the question: how will we compensate the owners of destroyed property? Again, one question on which we do not have the appropriate solution. The fact that there is a question of the protection of destroyed property, that this law is put on the agenda, is important to us, and that is why we will support it, but we insist that there is a maximum length of time for discussion and a proposal, so that we can get a really active bill that will enable the issue not only of the owners of destroyed property, but also to protect the interest of those who are subject to sanctions. During the discussion, the Commission also raised the question that part of the property is being destroyed and for the reason that motor vehicles are passing through the fields and destroying the property. I must tell you that at first glance this seemed a reasonable proposal, but agree that when it comes to the passage of agricultural animals, these are most often not deliberate actions, and we sanction the owner twice - and administratively with a fine, and with the withdrawal of the animals. When it comes to passing motor vehicles, it is already a conscious human activity, that is, consciously destroying something, and I think it does not belong to this particular bill in terms of preserving agricultural property to deal with this issue as well. Again, I would like to say we will support the bill, it is necessary, but the decisions are not in the direction in which they are provided by colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u7	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate, colleagues. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Property No 754-01-44, submitted by Alexander Ivanov Matsurev and a group of MPs on 12 July 2017. Vote 119 MPs: 115 against 1, abstention 3. The proposal is adopted, and with this at first reading the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Property. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR RADIO AND TELEVISION. Report from the Committee on Culture and Media "Please come in, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u8	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly: please allow Sofia Vladimirova to be President of the Council for Electronic Media.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u9	Please vote on admission in this Chamber. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guest to the hall. Go on, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u10	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on Radio and Television, No 754-01-42, submitted by Vecdi Rashidov, Stanislav Stanilov, Stefan Danailov, Velislava Krasteva, Erjan Ebatin and Boryana Georgieva on 7 July 2017. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media held on 20 July 2017, a draft amendment to the Law on Radio and Television was reviewed, No 754-01-42, submitted by Vecdi Rashidov, Stanislav Stanilov, Stefan Danailov, Velislava Krasteva, Erjan Ebatin and Boryana Georgieva on 7 July 2017. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Council for Electronic Media: Rosita Elenova a member, Dorotea Petrova an expert. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov. The Council for Electronic Media, according to the current norm of art. 39, Paragraph 1 of the Law on Radio and Television, presents a report on its activities to the National Assembly no later than 31 October for the first half of the year and 31 March for the second half of the previous year and publishes it on its website. The Bill proposes to submit an annual report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media, no later than 31 March of the following year, which is published on the website of the regulator. This approach is taken when presenting the accounts/reports to a number of other regulatory authorities in the National Assembly. The bill is accompanied by a preliminary impact assessment and does not require additional funds. The Council for Electronic Media supports the proposed amendment of the Law on Radio and Television. Following a vote, the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly with 17 votes to adopt a bill amending the Law on Radio and Television, No 754-01-42, submitted by Vecdi Rashidov, Stanislav Stanilov, Stefan Danailov, Velislava Krasteva, Erjan Ebatin and Boryana Georgieva on 7 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. Will anyone introduce us to the motives? I won't. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I'm opening the debate. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Law on Radio and Television, No 754-01-42, submitted by Vecdi Rashidov, Stanislav Stanilov, Stefan Danailov, Velislava Krasteva, Erjan Ebatin, Boryana Georgieva on 7 July 2017. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u12	On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that we adopt the Law amending the Law on Radio and Television.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u13	Please vote on the procedure made by Mrs. Sawateva. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva, for the second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u14	Madam President, should I read the whole text or should I read the title first?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u15	The title and the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u16	THE LAW OF THE amending the Law on Radio and Television It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 para. 1 is amended as The Council for Electronic Media shall present for discussion and adoption by the National Assembly an annual report on its activities, no later than 31 March of the following year, and shall publish it on its website.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. I put to the second vote the Law amending the Law on Radio and Television, No 754-01-42. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is adopted, and with this at second reading and the Law amending the Law on Radio and Television. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF SOCIAL SECURITY COMPANY BETWEEN BULGARIA AND THE KINGDOM OF MAROKO. Here you are, Dr. Ademov, for a report by the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Morocco, submitted by the Council of Ministers The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 26 July 2017 discussed and discussed a bill for ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Morocco, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The bill was presented by Mr. Biser Petkov. The Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Morocco was signed on 21 September 2016 in Rabat. It was developed after consultations by both parties, respecting all the rules of international law and the principles of social security. Since the Agreement leads to financial commitments for Bulgaria, it is subject to ratification. Its personal scope includes citizens of each Contracting Party who are or have been subject to the legislation of one of the Contracting Parties and persons whose rights derive from the rights of those persons. The material scope of the Bulgarian country includes the following types of benefits: cash benefits for temporary incapacity and maternity; disability benefits and pensions due to occupational accident and occupational sickness; retirement pensions and age and disability pensions due to general illness; inherited pensions arising from these pensions; unemployment benefits; death benefits. With regard to the Kingdom of Morocco, the Agreement will cover the general social security scheme in the private sector; the civil and military pension scheme; the collective pension scheme; the scheme covering accidents at work. In relation to the benefits of temporary incapacity and maternity under the Agreement, mutual respect for periods of insurance completed under the laws of both Parties shall be provided for. The insurance periods will be aggregated to the extent necessary to obtain the right to compensation under the legislation to be applied. If periods of insurance under both laws coincide, they will only be reported once. As regards invalidity pensions, old age pensions and inherited pensions, mutual respect for periods of insurance completed under the laws of both Parties is also provided, provided that those periods do not overlap. Periods acquired before the entry into force of the Agreement will also be respected. The possibility of taking into account periods of insurance completed under the legislation of a third country with which both Contracting Parties are bound by a social security coordination instrument providing for the possibility of summation of periods of insurance is also envisaged. The Agreement provides that if the conditions for obtaining the right to compensation under the legislation of one of the Contracting Parties are fulfilled, irrespective of periods of insurance completed under the legislation of the other Contracting Party, the competent institution of the first Contracting Party shall determine the compensation exclusively on the basis of periods of insurance completed under the legislation of that Contracting Party. If the insurance period completed under the legislation of one of the Contracting Parties is shorter than 12 months and if, taking into account only that period, the person does not acquire the right of compensation, the competent institution of that Contracting Party shall not be obliged to grant benefits for that period. Where the person fulfils the conditions for granting a pension without the need to sum up insurance periods, the pension shall be granted and paid exclusively under the law of the State in which the person meets the retirement requirements. Where necessary, summation of periods of insurance with a view to obtaining the right to determine the amount of pensions has been adopted by the principle of proportional calculation where each country determines a size corresponding to the periods acquired under its legislation. Cash compensation in the event of an accident or occupational disease shall be granted under the legislation of the Contracting Party to which the employee is subject at the time of the occurrence of the accident or the disease. Occupational sickness benefits shall be granted in accordance with the legislation of the competent institution of the Contracting Party to whose legislation the person was subject at the time of exercise of the work which led to the occupational disease. That rule shall also apply where the disease has been established at a time during which the person has been subject to the legislation of the other Contracting Party. With regard to unemployment or loss of work compensation, it is also provided for the possibility of summation of periods of insurance completed under the legislation of the other Contracting Party, provided that the insured person has completed his last periods of insurance in accordance with the legislation under which those benefits are claimed. It is clarified that in determining the amount of unemployment benefit or the compensation for loss of work, the competent institution of each Contracting Party shall respect only insurance benefits and periods completed under its legislation. The Agreement lays down that, if the person does not have the necessary periods of insurance to acquire, maintain or recover the right to death aid provided for by the legislation of one of the two countries to supplement the periods of insurance completed in that country, account shall also be taken of previous periods of insurance completed under the legislation of the other State. Each competent institution shall pay the death aid due under its legislation, irrespective of the place of residence of the recipient. The other parts of the Agreement shall contain standard provisions concerning the conclusion of an administrative agreement, procedural rules for the submission of applications, designation and payment of benefits, access to information and protection of personal data, administrative cooperation and others. The Agreement will enter into force on the first day of the third month following the month of receipt of the second of the notes by which the Contracting Parties notify each other by diplomatic means that all the requirements of their national laws for the entry into force of the Agreement have been met. This Agreement shall be concluded for an indefinite period of time. In the event of termination, any rights acquired by persons in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement shall remain in force. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 18 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Morocco, No 702 2 8, tabled by the Council of Ministers on July 20, 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u19	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Morocco, No 702 02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2017. At a regular meeting held on 26 July 2017, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The reasons under the bill were presented by Zornitsa Rusinova "Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy." The Agreement was signed on 21 September 2016 in Rabat. The Agreement shall be based on the principles of equal treatment of persons; the export of pensions; the applicability of only one legislation with regard to the obligation to ensure and sum up the periods of insurance. The following types of benefits are included on the Bulgarian side: cash benefits for temporary incapacity and maternity; disability benefits and pensions due to occupational accident and occupational sickness; retirement and age pensions and disability pensions due to general illness; inheritance pensions arising from these pensions; unemployment benefits; death benefits. With regard to the Kingdom of Morocco, the Agreement will cover the general social security scheme in the private sector; the civil and military pension scheme; the collective pension scheme; the scheme covering accidents at work. The Agreement provides that if the conditions for obtaining the right to compensation under the legislation of one of the Contracting Parties are fulfilled, irrespective of periods of insurance completed under the legislation of the other Contracting Party, the competent institution of the first Contracting Party shall determine the compensation exclusively on the basis of periods of insurance completed under the legislation of that Contracting Party. If the insurance period completed under the legislation of one of the Contracting Parties is shorter than 12 months and if, taking into account only that period, the person does not acquire the right of compensation, the competent institution of that Contracting Party shall not be obliged to grant benefits for that period. The Agreement provides that it shall enter into force from the first day of the third month following the month in which the second of the notes by which the Contracting Parties notify each other by diplomatic means that the requirements of their national laws for its entry into force have been fulfilled. It's locked for an indefinite period. In the event of termination, any rights acquired by persons in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement shall remain in force. According to § 1a, t. 3 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Legislative Acts, Chapters 2 and 3 of that Law, except for the requirement of reasons under art. 28, para. 1 shall not apply to bills for the ratification and denounce of international treaties. In this context, it is not necessary to carry out an impact assessment, to conduct public consultations and to prepare a reference on compliance with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights of the draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on Social Security between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Morocco. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which by 15 votes "for".............................................................................................. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5, 6 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt, at first reading, the draft Law on ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Morocco.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. I'm opening the debate. Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! For more than 50 years the relations between Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Morocco have helped to have a serious cooperation in the different areas of economic, economic and cultural life in relations between the two countries. Thousands are Bulgarian citizens who worked in the Kingdom of Morocco and, although late in the Agreement, I am glad that there is such a proposal that it is signed and I believe that we should support the ratification of this document, which will also enable those who worked and those who work today in the field of education, health, culture, sport, to rely on a serious concern for them as Bulgarian citizens in the Kingdom of Morocco and also Moroccan citizens who, for one reason or another, are in Bulgaria. I am convinced that colleagues will support ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. - What's the line? Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on a bill for ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Morocco, No 702 02 8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2017. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u24	Thank you, Madam President. I'm making a procedural proposal according to art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be voted on at second reading in the framework of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u25	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please, Dr. Ademov, read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u26	Thank you, Madam President. THE LAW OF THE ratifying the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Morocco A single member. Ratified the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Morocco, signed on 21 September 2016 in Rabat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u27	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Please vote. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The proposal has been adopted and thus the second reading of ratification. Here you are, Mr. Letifov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u28	Thank you, Madam President. I am proposing on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall extend the period between the two readings of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Documents and Electronic Signature by another week. This will reach the maximum period of four weeks between the two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Please vote. Vote 98 MPs: 95, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on today's agenda: LAW PROJECT FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE MEMORANDUM FOR THE USE OF THE TRANSPARENT COOPERATION PROGRAM INTERREG "IPPLE BULGARIA "SERBIA CCI 2014TC16I5CB007 BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA. We have a report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government on a bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme "IPP Bulgaria" - Serbia CCI 2014TC16I5CB007 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, No 702 02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers. At a regular meeting held on 20 July 2017, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Draft for the ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme (IPP) - Bulgaria - Serbia CCI 2014TC16I5CB007 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, No 702-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2017. On behalf of an importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Denitsa Nikolova, Deputy Minister of Regional Policy. The Programme for Cross-border Cooperation INTERREG "IPP Bulgaria" "Serbia CCITC16I5CB007" was approved by Decision of the European Commission C(2015) under No 5444 of 30 July 2015. The Memorandum for the Implementation of the Inter-border Cooperation Programme INTEREGГ "IPP Bulgaria" "Serbia CCI 2014TC16I5CB007 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Serbia was signed for the Republic of Bulgaria on 15 December 2016 and for the Republic of Serbia on 27 January 2017. The Memorandum lays down the general rules for the management and implementation of the Programme, as well as the structures of the Programme and the distribution of functions between them. The programme is aimed at financing projects related to the development of sustainable tourism, youth and the environment. The Memorandum consists of five chapters. Chapter I "General provisions' lays down the subject matter and applicable provisions of the Memorandum and provides information on the terms used therein. Chapter II "Administrative provisions' lays down the institutions involved in the implementation and management of the programme and their responsibilities. This Chapter also covers matters relating to the formation and operation of the Joint Monitoring Committee, ensuring a first level of control of operations, as well as evaluators for carrying out a technical assessment of the submitted project proposals. Chapter III "Execution' sets out the procedures related to the implementation of the Programme, such as the selection of operations and negotiation, negotiation and tender procedures. In Chapter IV, Financial Provisions and Controls, it includes provisions relating to national co-financing, payments to leading beneficiaries under priority axes 1. "Sustainable tourism', 2. ........................................................ This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance, In "Concluding provisions" it regulates the development of rules for the implementation of the Programme and projects, the language for communication, the resolution of disputes concerning the implementation of the Programme, as well as the entry into force of the Memorandum. The signed Memorandum shall be subject to ratification by a Law of the National Assembly on the grounds of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government unanimously proposed to the National Assembly a draft law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme for Bulgaria
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u32	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Memorandum for implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Co-operation Programme "IPP Bulgaria" - Serbia CCI 2014TC16I5CB007 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, No 702-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2017. At its regular meeting, held on 13 July 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law for the ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme "Interreg Bulgaria" - Serbia CCI 2014TS16I5CB007 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, No 702-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2017. The bill was presented by Ms. Denitsa Nikolova. Minister for Regional Development and Public Works. The Memorandum for the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme Bulgaria "Serbia CCI 2014TC16I5CB007 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Serbia was signed for the Republic of Bulgaria on 15 December 2016 and for the Republic of Serbia on 27 January 2017. It shall lay down the general rules for the management and implementation of the Programme, its structures and the allocation of functions between them. The content covers General provisions, with a description of the subject matter and the applicable provisions of the Memorandum, as well as definitions of the terms used therein; Administrative provisions, which refer to the institutions involved in the implementation and management of the Programme, and their responsibilities, including the Managing Authority, the Directorate General, the Management of Territorial Cooperation and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria; the National Authority, the Office for European Integration of the Republic of Serbia, the Department for Cross-border and Cooperation Programmes; the Certification Authority, the Directorate of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria, and the Responsible Authority of the European Council of the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria. A Joint Secretariat with its seat in the city has been established for the purpose of implementing the programme. Sofia, Republic of Bulgaria and branch of the Secretariat in the city of Sofia Nish, Republic of Serbia. Chapter II also deals with issues relating to the formation and operation of the Joint Monitoring Committee, ensuring a first level of control of operations, as well as with evaluators to carry out a technical assessment of the submitted project proposals. The Memorandum shall also specify the procedures relating to the implementation of the programme, such as the selection of operations and negotiation, over-negotiation and tender procedures, as well as provisions relating to national co-financing, payments to leading beneficiaries under Priority Axis 1, 2 and 3, payments under Priority Axis 4 "Technical assistance', eligibility of expenditure, irregularities and reimbursement of unduly paid funds and financial corrections by the European Commission. In its final provisions, the development of rules for the implementation of the programme and projects, the language for communication, the resolution of disputes concerning the implementation of the programme and the entry into force of the Memorandum is regulated. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Memorandum for the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme Bulgaria? Serbia CCI 2014TC16I5CB007 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is subject to ratification by law. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: With 20 votes for the implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme, without abstentions, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Law on the ratification of the Memorandum on Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme Bulgaria "Serbia CCI 2014TC16I5CB007 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, No 702 02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yordanova. Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Memorandum for implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Co-operation Programme "IPP Bulgaria" - Serbia CCI 2014TC16I5CB007 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, No 702-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2017. At its regular meeting held on 19 July 2017, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for the ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme Bulgaria, submitted by the Council of Ministers No 702-02-6 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The bill was presented by Ms. Denitsa Nikolova, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria with this bill is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the aforementioned Memorandum signed for the Republic of Bulgaria by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works on 15 December 2016. The Interreg Programme for Cross-border Cooperation Bulgaria INTERREG (IPP) is approved by Decision No 654 of the Council of Ministers of 18 September 2014 and by Decision of the European Commission C(2015) 5444 of 30 July 2015. It aims to finance projects related to the development of sustainable tourism, youth and the environment. The Memorandum lays down the general rules for the management and implementation of the programme, as well as the structures of the programme and the distribution of functions between them. The document shall consist of five chapters as follows: "General provisions' the chapter describes the subject matter and applicable provisions of the Memorandum and provides information on the terms used therein; This chapter sets out the institutions involved in the implementation and management of the programme and their responsibilities. The Managing Authority is the Directorate-General for Territorial Cooperation and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria. The National Authority shall be the European Integration Office of the Republic of Serbia, the Department of Cross-border and Transnational Cooperation Programmes. The certification body is the National Fund Directorate of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria, and the Audit Authority is the Executive Agency of the EU Funds of the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria. In order to implement the objectives of the programme, a Joint Secretariat was established in Sofia and its branch in the city of Nis, the Republic of Serbia. This Chapter also covers matters relating to the formation and operation of the Joint Monitoring Committee; Chapter "Execution' provides information on the procedures related to the implementation of a programme, such as the selection of operations and negotiation, over negotiation and tender procedures; Chapter 4 "Financial provisions and control" here are included provisions regarding national co-financing, payments to leading beneficiaries under the priority axes 1. "Sustainable tourism', 2. ........................................................ the following point (a) is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): This Chapter also covers matters relating to eligibility of expenditure, irregularities and reimbursement of irregularities and financial corrections by the European Commission; Chapter 5 "Concluding provisions'. It regulates the development of rules for implementation of the programme and projects, communication language, dispute resolution in relation to implementation of the programme, and the entry into force of the Memorandum. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed by 6 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for the ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme Bulgaria "Serbia CCI 2014TC16I5CB007 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, No 702-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. The report of the Committee on Foreign Policy remains. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of a Cross-border Cooperation Programme At a meeting held on 12 July 2017, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme "Interreg Bulgaria" - Serbia CCI 2014TC16I5CB007 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, signed for the Republic of Bulgaria on 15 December 2016 and for the Republic of Serbia on 27 January 2017. The reasons for the bill were presented by Ms. Denitsa Nikolova, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. By Decision No 654 of the Council of Ministers of 18 September 2014 the Republic of Bulgaria agreed with the content of the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation INTERREG The programme was approved by Decision of the European Commission C(2015) 5444 of 30 July 2015. This is one of the European Union's cross-border cooperation programmes in which our country participates in the period 2014-2020. The joint strategic objective of regional cooperation between sectors and administrative units, which must be achieved through the Programme, is to promote the balanced and sustainable development of the cross-border region between Bulgaria and Serbia through smart economic growth, adaptation to environmental changes and improvement of training culture. The territorial scope of the Programme includes regions located on the border between the two partner countries, namely: the districts of Vidin, Montana, Vratsa, Sofia region, Pernik and Kyustendil on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and the districts of Bohr, Zaichar, Nishava, Toplitsa, Pirot, Jablanitsa and Pchinya on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The total amount of the funds under it amounts to 34 million. 102,000. EUR 256, of which 28 million Nine hundred and 914 are from the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance and 5 million. 115,000. 342 euros from the national public co-financing provided by the two countries. The programme will operate through three priority axes and the allocation of funds under them is as follows: - Priority axis 1 - Priority axis 2...... - Priority axis 3 - Priority axis 4 The beneficiaries of the Programme may be legal entities registered in the eligible region and should be non-profit-making organisations. The Managing Authority is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of Bulgaria and the Ministry of European Affairs of Turkey performs the functions of the National Authority. For the purpose of the implementation of the Programme a Joint Secretariat was established with a main office in Sofia "The Republic of Bulgaria," with a branch in Nish "The Republic of Serbia." The Memorandum shall arrange for the formation and operation of a Joint Monitoring Committee. The Directorate of the National Fund of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Audit Authority of the Executive Agency of the European Union to the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria are appointed as the certification body. The Managing Authority of the Programme is the Directorate-General for Territorial Cooperation.The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the National Partner Authority is the Office for European Integration of the Republic of Serbia. The proposal for ratification by law ensures the full participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme "Interreg" Bulgaria "IPP Bulgaria" under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance CCI 2014TS16G5CW007, defining the powers of the authorities responsible for the effective management and implementation of the programme, in accordance with the commitments made by the Republic of Bulgaria. The Memorandum negotiates national co-financing on priority axes and participation between partners from each country. The Memorandum of Implementation of the Programme shall enter into force from the date of receipt by diplomatic means of the second of the notes notifying the Parties that the requirements of the relevant laws for its entry into force have been met. The Memorandum shall be ratified by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 18 votes for the implementation of the INTERREG Cross-Border Cooperation Programme, without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly, to adopt, at first vote, a Law on the ratification of the Memorandum on Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-Border Cooperation Programme, Bulgaria?Serbia CCI 2014TC16I5CB007 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, No 702-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2017. In conclusion, I would like to say that there is probably a spelling error in the report itself and as a governing body by the Ministry of European Affairs of the Republic of Serbia to read and here is the Republic of Turkey.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u37	Yeah, mark it! Thank you, Mr. Gadget. I'm opening the debate, colleagues. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. We move on to the first vote of the Law on the ratification of the Memorandum for the implementation of a cross-border cooperation programme INTERREG "Interreg Bulgaria" - Serbia CCI 2014TC16I5CB007 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, No 702-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2017. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The ratification law was passed at first reading. Will we have a second reading procedure? I don't see a second reading procedure. The Foreign Policy Committee maybe? Mr. Kirilov had a procedure under another bill. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u38	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the deadline for proposals between first and second readings in relation to the joint project bringing together the bills adopted at first reading to amend and supplement the Civil Procedure Code by five more days, i.e. until the maximum possible time to expire on 18 September 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Please vote on the procedure so done by Mr. Kirilov. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mr. Gazhev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u40	Mrs. Chairman, I'm doing a procedure based on art. 80, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure to put to the second vote the Law on the ratification of the Memorandum for the implementation of the Cross-border Cooperation Programme between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Serbia, which we just adopted at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u41	Please, voting mode. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u42	Thank you. Project! LAW on the ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme Bulgaria A single member. Ratiated the Memorandum for the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-Border Cooperation Programme Bulgaria "Serbia SSI 2014TS16I5W007 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, signed for the Republic of Bulgaria on 15 December 2016 and for the Republic of Serbia on 27 January 2017. FINAL DISCLOSURE It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. Please vote on the second reading of ratification. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on today's agenda: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE ACTION OF NATIONAL HEALTH AND HEALTH CACUS FOR 2016 Report from the Committee on Health. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u44	Dear Madam President, please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be allowed in plenary the Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Miroslav Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u45	Please vote regime for the admission of Deputy Minister Nenkov. They voted 105 MPs: for 102, against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u46	♪ I can't believe on a draft decision adopting the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016, No 702-00-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2017. At its regular meeting held on 13 July 2017, the Health Committee examined and discussed a draft decision adopting the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016, No 702-00-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund, Dr. Dimitar Petrov, Acting Governor of NHIF, representatives of the Ministry of Health, word organizations in the field of health care, trade unions and patient organizations. The annual report was presented by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of NHIF Mr. Kiril Ananiev. He informed the MPs that in 2016 the activities of the NHIF were mainly linked to the performance of its functional duties in accordance with relevant European and national legislation, as well as to the protection of the framework of the NHIF budget for the financial year. Mr. Ananiev pointed out that during the reporting period the effectiveness and effectiveness of the financial management and control system of the NHIF Central Management and Regional Health Insurance Fund and of the preliminary control system on the legality of all actions and documents related to the financial activity were increased. In the preparation of the NHIF Activity Review for 2016, the impact of the health-demographic environment has also been taken into account, such as demographic indicators where sustainable trends are observed and negative natural growth that have an immediate impact on the financial stability of the NHIF. On the one hand, adverse demographic development is a prerequisite for reducing real income from the economically active population, and this problem is also deepening due to the high level of emigration. On the other hand, the ageing population and the high level of chronic morbidity results in a significant increase in health insurance costs. The annual report is structured in the different functional directions of the activities of the NHIF and health insurance payments, taking into account in detail the checks carried out by experts of the NHIF Central Management and the control bodies of the RHIF. In line with the changes in the regulations, an instruction on the terms and conditions of control under art. 72, para. 2 - 8 of the Social Security Act. The checks shall be carried out in strict execution of the instruction and of the algorithm provided for therein. There are also identified violations of the execution of contracts with medical aid contractors, as well as the identified problems and specific proposals for optimization of the activity. 13 434 outpatient medical and dental aid contracts were concluded during the reporting period. The insurance with general practitioners on average for the country is one doctor of 1649 health-insured persons, compared to one doctor of 1655 health-insured persons for 2015, while maintaining the trend of uneven insurance with medical professionals on the territory of the country. The average insurance with dentists in 2016 is one doctor of 1143 health insured persons, which, compared to the previous year, represents an increase of 2.81%, and is related to both an increase in the number of dentists and a minor reduction in the number of health insured persons. The share of health insured persons receiving primary outpatient dental aid in 2016 decreased marginally from 24,8% to 24,4% compared to 2015. With regard to hospital medical care, an increase in the number of hospital care contractors contracted with the NHIF compared to 2015. At the same time, the total number of agreed clinical pathways for the reporting period marked a slight decline due mainly to changes in the regulations, changes in the requirements for implementation and negotiation of clinical pathways due to the adoption of new medical standards, as well as the dropping of some of the clinical pathways and their negotiation as outpatient procedures. In 2016, the contracts with NHIF, hospital care providers, were 365, of which 311 were hospital care facilities, 42 were medical facilities for specialized outpatient medical care and 12 dialysis centers. During the period 2014 - 2016, the number of hospital care establishments has increased by 62 in total and 22 are hospital hospitals, of which 16 specialized hospitals, 9 dialysis centers and 7 multi-profile hospitals, with only for 2016 new hospital care facilities being three. These data confirm the positive trend for improving patients' access to hospital care throughout the country. In conclusion, Mr. Ananiev pointed out that during the reporting period the internal control system established provided conditions for identifying risks, applying criteria for evaluation of implementation and reporting of results. The functioning of the system was subject to the requirements for strict compliance with the financial framework, proper coordination of administrative activities and the legality of processes in electronic reporting and the activities of contractual partners. In the course of the discussion, the members of the Health Committee agreed that the content of the report presented, despite the detailed information, lacks a serious analysis of one of the main aspects of the NHIF's activities, namely how the health system improved in 2016, access and quality of medical care and respect for patients' rights. The main and most important part of the report should be the conclusion to what extent, by spending the funds from the health insurance contributions of all Bulgarian citizens, the planned mission and objectives are realized. The Members of the National Assembly also raised specific questions regarding the findings on child mortality, the results of a joint project for the assessment of different clinical pathways in the history of diseases, the number of criminal decrees issued by the NHIF and the amount of the funds actually collected from fines and property penalties resulting from the control activities of the NHIF for 2016, as well as the alarming findings regarding the treatment of Bulgarian citizens in other European countries. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results, the National Health Insurance Fund's Annual Activity Report 2016 No 702-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2017, submitted by the National Health Insurance Fund to the National Assembly. Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u47	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. I give the floor for speeches. Here you go, Dr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u48	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Minister, honourable Members! We are witnessing another case report of the Health Insurance Fund, which is submitted for approval by the National Assembly. There are some questions that we need to ask and which we did not receive during his discussion at the Health Commission. So it was seen that the body that determines the development of health care and its condition is mainly the Health Insurance Fund, unfortunately because it finances health care almost 99%, as we are used to saying, and here the decisions that the Supervisory Board takes and which are implemented by the National Health Insurance Fund are extremely important. The questions we want to ask are: why has medicine supply become the main priority for the accumulation of the funds of the Health Insurance Fund? We think that hospital health issues, outside hospital healthcare issues and other departments to which the Health Insurance Fund pays are also important and have their meanings. All of the health care fund's reserves cannot be directed only to the drug supply and they can be paid in due time and in due time. Secondly, we believe that the budget does not present in general the financial situation of the Health Insurance Fund, provided that, for financial reasons, its colleagues say that they cannot pay the work carried out by hospitals, which is approximately 20 to 30 million per year, and at the end of the year, imagine, at the reporting period, the Health Insurance Fund ends up with about a million and a half plus. Why, when at the same time no one presents exactly how things are with the payment of the treatment of Bulgarian citizens abroad? There are saying things.. unfortunately, we do not have accurate data, about 200 million, which the Health Insurance Fund has to pay for the treatment of Bulgarian citizens in foreign countries. It is no secret that there are already countries that do not accept for treatment Bulgarian citizens simply because the Health Insurance Fund does not pay for this treatment. These questions can also be asked for dental help. These questions may also be asked about the access of health insured persons to outside hospital care. But it is especially important why the health insurance person who pays his contributions has obstacles in his desire to enter a particular hospital that does not accept it because at the end of the month it did not have a limit for receiving sick people? When it comes to these areas of Bulgaria, where we have only one hospital, and this is usually the district hospital, the patient is forced to go to a neighbouring area, if there is a limit to treating the patient, or to wait for this week or two to come the new reporting period, the new month, and he to enter the hospital. This in certain conditions may have an extremely severe effect on its health, including the most severe condition. Therefore, we, my colleagues from the BSP parliamentary group, cannot vote positively for the adoption of this budget. It's high time we found out that the health insurance budget...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u49	Activity report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u50	Dr. Daritkova, please, never when I speak, I don't want you to apostrophy me! We have plenty of time to pay attention to you whenever you want and comment on things.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u51	I'm correcting you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u52	We need to understand that things in Bulgarian healthcare depend mainly on how we accept the budget and its implementation. In particular, I personally believe that what we think we have accepted and entrusted to the National Health Insurance Fund is not met, thereby creating significant difficulties in the treatment and access of health insured persons to hospital care. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u53	Thank you, Dr. Yordanov. Are there any lines to Dr. Yordanov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Professor Klisarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Minister! I got to know the report twice thoroughly and did my best, but what I didn't have was a number, a number, an analysis. It is extremely important that, when the Health Insurance Fund presents its report, we have an analysis to know what policy it wanted to conduct and how far it has achieved its policy. Now what do we do, how do we plan? We can't because we don't have an analysis. We always say the historical principle. It was the last three months ago, and now we've made a new formula for the last year. Do we just have to follow the historical principle? Where did the historical principle lead us? Until one inequality between the different districts, we all asked the Minister of Health, we heard the hearing of the Director of the Casata between hospitals. Much of the university and district hospitals had a reduction thanks to this historical principle What's that got to? The patients should seek out which hospital there is a limit, not vice versa, the money to follow the patient and the patient to choose his own hospital. Let's just break this principle into numbers and run an analysis. Secondly, it is an extremely important topic that we discussed together to the Commission that there is no integrated information system between the Ministry of Health and NHIF. We didn't have a record of the measles kids being vaccinated. This should not and cannot be allowed because it has severe consequences for the health of the entire population. What happened to the Cashier? The Supervisory Board decides, but with what? With this money, granted by the Ministry of Finance. The cashier, instead of holding policies together with the Ministry, appears only as a distribution station of the allocated funds. We must be extremely careful about the budget in order to implement the good proposals made by our colleagues from the Ministry of Health, the colleagues from the Casa and the doctors from hospital and hospital care. Next item "overliminating." How many of our patients are waiting to have a direction in outpatient care?! And now there's overliminating hospital care. We wait. Let these limits be regulated so that patients do not have to wait so long. Don't let the patients have to pay out of their own pocket. We all know how much money the patients spend, although they are health insurance, for regulated and unregulated payments. It was rightly pointed out that there is an excess of 1.6 million (I think that was the figure) and we are not actually paying health institutions. What is the real financial situation? If there's an excess, why are we transferring to the next budget?! Here, since 2016 we have transferred to 2017. What is the truth? Where is the eternal theme of the clinical pathways?! When are we going to value them and when are we going to value the doctor's work?! That's why we're starting policies on how to have doctors. The figures show that for 2016 we have fewer doctors and health workers per capita compared to 2015. Therefore, these problems need to be discussed right now in the formation of the Cashier's budget so that we can make policies so that we can have prevention so that we do not have unvaccinated children so that there are no payments from the pocket. And not just the historical principle, but what will be useful for the health of the nation! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u55	Thank you, dear Professor. Klisarova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Dr. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Deputy Minister, honourable Members! I consider it a mistake to divide the two annual reports. I only recall that under the Law we have adopted, two reports should be submitted by the Health Insurance Fund and by the Council of Ministers "Annual report on the activities of the NHIF for the relevant year, which we are discussing at the moment, and an annual report on the implementation of the NHIF budget. I think it is a wrong decision today to look at only the first report and to postpone the debate on the Father's budget implementation. Therefore, colleagues entered the discussion within the framework of the fact that there is an excess of 1 million in the Health Insurance Fund for 2016. Six hundred thousand. BGN, and at the same time there are unpaid expenses in huge amounts. The report on the activities of the NHIF should be a report on the work carried out by the Supervisory Board by the relevant regional health banks in relation to the conclusion of contracts, control and analysis for the relevant period. It is a fact that the NHIF does not have a single information system, it does not have registers to refer to in order to analyse trends of morbidity, mortality, treatment and the effect of this treatment. The fact is that these reports are starting to look alike, and the result is that every year the budget of the Health Insurance Fund is 200 to 250 million more, but still there are deficits, because this model of the Health Insurance Fund generates deficit. I therefore believe that this debate today is extremely ineffective. There won't be any results from him. It is strange that the President of the Health Commission proposed that, at the Commission meeting on 12 July, when we looked at the two reports, they proposed that the debate on them should go parallel. This was supported by the President of the Supervisory of the Health Insurance Fund Mr. Ananiev, and today it was made so that we could discuss only the Activity Report. I understand that the reason for this is that the Budget and Finance Committee has failed to examine the Budget Review. In order to have an analysis of what is happening in order to have interference to reverse the trends, and they are extremely adverse, an analytical unit must be created. For me, this is the main conclusion of the Health Commission debate. I was expecting this conversation to move into the room. Unfortunately, I do not expect that result today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u57	Thank you, dear Dr. Jaffer. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u58	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Minister, honourable Members! I do not know if you ignored the fact that in the field of other medical insurance payments, according to the rules for coordination of social security systems, the money that Bulgaria owes to foreign health insurance systems is within the range of 330 million, something that we doctors are very puzzled about. We have received an answer to the question we asked the representative of the Casa, but the finding is that we do not have the necessary equipment in Bulgaria, not that we do not have good specialists, not that we do not have good hospitals. All the hospitals you want! So much money has been given even for new technologies, but despite everything our patients are going to heal themselves outside. They'd rather go outside! If you look at the proportion of the treatment, it is mostly planned and not emergency treatment - an even more disturbing fact! I will not reveal any more things from the Commission meeting, but I will say that we have encountered a lot of fracturing data, including sending from colleagues to Bulgarian patients, purposely, as colleagues have studied there, know who are the good specialists and on purely friendly advice guide them. I'm done. I think the Deputy Minister's presence in this House today will help further this particular part to be analysed in detail. To help him, I would like to give him a glove. It is precisely in Regulation 631/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council. In parentheses I will only add that there are three or four things shown there when other health insurance funds will not pay for the country that sent the patient. From there, we need to go backwards and reduce the number of patients who are going to be looking for help outside. Because the efforts made by the state are directed to stay here. Not to mention frappany cases that Dr. Timchev, one of the doctors in charge, will tell you about.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u59	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I understand the confusion of colleagues. That is why I took the liberty of guiding them from place because there are really two reports "One is for the work of which the Committee on Health is the leading one. The other report is about funding, about the budget. There is the Committee on Budget and Finance. In the Commission, we have examined the two reports together because they are inextricably linked, but a draft adoption decision is being examined in this House after the lead committee has looked at the relevant document.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u61	Not necessarily!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u62	That's why all we're looking at right now is the activity report. These two reports don't have to go together. It is the will of the Members of the National Assembly and of the Conference of Presidents to set the agenda. We have adopted this agenda and therefore they are looked at in this order. If you believe that it is not effective for such two budgets to go separately, the relevant legislative proposal may be tabled and, within one report, account can be taken of both activity and financing because they are inextricably linked. In order to assess the effect of the investments of the contributions of the insured citizens and what happens from this to the health of the Bulgarian citizens, it is very important that these two reports go simultaneously. Such legislative changes may also be considered. We are currently focusing on the Cashier's activity report, which has been reviewed by the Health Committee and which we examined in detail during the meeting. Everyone has drawn their conclusions, but by voting here for the health system in Bulgaria, we cannot say whether we approve or not. Today we are voting on a report. Our vote shows whether we believe it is credible. I believe that the Cashier, presenting this report, has presented in detail its activities for 2016. The legislative framework and regulations are defined by the National Assembly and the Ministry of Health. In this case, the Cashier can't make politics on her own. There are many problems in the Bulgarian health system. They found their reflection in this report. The point is that all the years the reports are quite bulky, a little confusing, and the analytical part is a little scarce. That's what we've always found out. I believe that the new management of the Cassata Supervisory Board adopted the idea that the volume and material should be much more synthesized in the coming years and that it should be possible if an analytical unit is created, as is the intention of the new Casa Governor, to be much more useful to the MPs, so that they can direct their activities and change the legislative framework to achieve the effects that the NHIF is putting on itself. I will say that our parliamentary group will support this report because it objectively reflects the activities of the Central Management of the NHIF and of the regional health insurance banks, also reflects the state of the Bulgarian health system at the moment. And it's inefficient, with a little preventative activity, with hospital care that's growing all the time. The fact is that although we have a deficit of general practitioners insufficiently represented in outpatient care, we have 22 new hospitals in the reporting period. This is a topic that should involve the attention of the Members of the National Assembly. To seek a solution how to make it possible for Bulgarian citizens to receive medical care in sufficient volume, to have timely diagnosis and treatment in outpatient care, and to leave the expensive hospital treatment only for cases where no results can be achieved in the outpatient system. This is our ambition and our task. The other ambition is how to find a way to effectively spend drug money, because there we see improved access, but at the same time all restrictions and restrictions imposed on the activity are still insufficient in terms of drug policy spending. Here the challenge for us as making health policy is how to find the right balance on the one hand to guarantee access to new, effective modern therapy, and on the other hand to ensure that the funds that are allocated to this are balanced, relative to the activities of medical professionals. Again, I say that a solution to all problems in today's debate will not be found, but the activity report should be supported because it objectively reflects what has been done. We shouldn't be in politics here.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-07.u63	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I'll read the draft decision one more time: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016 The decision was adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly of (date) 2017 and was sealed with the official seal of the National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 154 MPs: 88, against 58, abstention 8. With this the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund has been adopted. Parliamentary control messages on 8 September 2017 at 9:00: - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer two questions from the MPs: Dimitar Stoyanov, Nikolay Tishev, Petar Kanev and Todor Bajchev two questions; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer 14 questions from the MPs: Veselin Mareshki, Krastina Taskova two questions; Dimitar Danchev and Rumen Georgiev; Nadia Klisurska and Kristina Sidorova; Stoyan Mirchev and Svetla Bachvarova; Svetla Bachvarova and Daniel Yordanov; Kristina Siderova; Petar Hristov Petrov; Ivan Ivanov; Rumen Georgiev and Svetla Bachvarova two questions, and four questions from the people's representatives: Pavel Shopov, Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gökov, and Bürhan A. - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer two questions from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer a question from the National Representative Donka Simeonova. - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer a question from the MPs Ivan Ivanov and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer two questions from the MPs Gergana Stefanova and Ivan Ibrishimov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the MP Krum Zarkov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from MPs Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski; - a question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov; - a question from the National Representative Adlen Shevked to the Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, there will be no participation: - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov; - Minister of Health Nikolai Petrov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourning today's meeting. Tomorrow, regular plenary session at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
