ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] My fellow Members, before my meeting, the MPs complained that their panels were not working. I'm really committed to taking action. Yesterday was the People's Representative Dragomir Stoynev, today the People's Representative Snezhana Dukova, as a result of which her signs to the cab were adopted, not exactly in the way they should be adopted. Really, I apologize to my colleagues who don't have the consoles. Today, the administration and I will start solving the problem. For today there is a certain point first, namely: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MANAGEMENT BY THE EUROPEAN STRUCTURAL AND INVESTIGATION FUNDS. Before that procedure. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, please put to the vote for admission to the hall of Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Director of the Central Coordination Unit of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u3	Please vote on the proposal made. Vote 166 MPs: 158 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Invite the face to the hall. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which will introduce you to the National Representative Maria Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! At its meeting held on 14 September 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the said Bill. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Council of Ministers: Ivan Ivanov, Director of the Central Coordination Unit, and Maria Baneva, expert in the same Directorate. The bill was presented by the MP Ivelina Vassileva. The European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Act has been adopted by the 43rd National Assembly and has been in force since 25 December 2015. It has achieved maximum comparability and uniformity of the rules governing public relations relating to the various coordination, implementation, monitoring and control activities of the funds under which the ESI Funds are managed and spent. For its part, the regulation of these public relations at the legal level allowed for the first time the introduction of the public-law regime in the relations between the managing authorities and the beneficiaries of financial support in line with the principles established in the regulation of public funds. The establishment by the Law of clear administrative legal relations and the introduction of reduced time limits in judicial review carried out by administrative courts are also positive prerequisites, stimulating the lawful and effective absorption of European funds. However, the practice accumulated so far in implementing the law establishes the need for amendments to specific provisions in order to refine and eliminate them to the maximum extent the risk of a diverse approach in individual processes in the management of funds from the ESI Funds. This Bill aims to secure the principle of sound financial management with regard to and the national co-financing provided for under the programmes, which is provided by transfer from the central budget. To this end, a uniform approach is introduced whereby the rules under which funds from the ESI Funds are managed are also applicable to the second component of the public contribution. As systematic national co-financing is governed by the Public Finance Act, the proposal made by § 1 in addition to the definition in § 12 aims to overcome the rules in the Public Finance Act, which refers to national co-financing and the contribution of the beneficiaries of the budget organisations. In this way, the likelihood of a distortion of the principle of making financial corrections is eliminated, namely to restore the damage caused by the infringement, without having a sensibility of the beneficiary, as would have been the case if a financial correction on the own funds provided by the beneficiary in the implementation of the project was carried out. The proposed amendments shall specify texts relating to financial management and control, ensuring that a better financial discipline and maximum protection of public contribution is achieved by regulating the payment of the grant financial assistance, respectively where there is a suspicion of an irregularity and where a financial correction is carried out in the event of an irregularity already identified. The current amendments to the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds achieve a streamlined administrative practice. The managing authorities shall be given the opportunity to determine themselves the period within which beneficiaries must submit the relevant evidence when granting the grant. In the current revision of the law, this term is fixed to 10 days. In this regard, the proposal also protects the beneficiary's interest. Based on the practice of the managing authorities, there are often objective reasons why the beneficiary is unable to provide the necessary documents within 10 days, which may be the reason for refusing the grant on this formal basis. A proposal has been made to determine a separate amount of a court fee when contesting the decision to terminate the grant proceedings at the stage of administrative compliance and eligibility. Due to a legal gap with regard to the court's fee in contesting a decision to terminate, the court's practice shows that an analogy applies the fee fixed to challenge individual administrative acts. However, the amount of this charge is unjustified in challenging this type of decision. In conclusion, the proposed amendments and additions to the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Fund Fund Management Act will contribute to the optimization of the European Structural and Investment Funds fund management system, including the corresponding national co-financing, as well as to increasing its effectiveness and effectiveness in general. Following a discussion of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Act, a vote was held which ended with the following results:.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds, No 754-01-53, submitted by the MPs Ivelina Vassileva, Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova on 8 September 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. Following the opinion of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u6	Thank you, Madam President. At its regular meeting held on 20 September 2017, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the Law for the Management of Funds from European Structures and Investment Funds, No 754-01-53, submitted by Ivelina Vasilova, Menda Kirilova Stoyanova and Diana Ivanova Yordanova. The bill was presented by Mrs. Diana Yordanova, Member of the National Assembly, importer of the Bill. An expert opinion on the draft presented Mr. Ivan Ivanov Director of the Central Coordination Unit Directorate in the Administration of the Council of Ministers, and Mrs. Maria Baneva Head of the Strategic Planning and Programming Department in the same Directorate. This Draft Law proposes amendments to the Law on the Management of Funds from European Structures and Investment Funds (ZUSIF). In accordance with the reasoning provided by the importers, specific provisions are to be amended in order to refine and eliminate to the maximum extent the risk of a different approach in individual processes in the management of the ESI Funds. The amendments to the Law aim at securing the principle of financial management with regard to and the national co-financing provided for under the programmes provided by transfer from the central budget. Through changes in art. 1, para. 2 is intended to introduce a uniform approach whereby the rules under which ESIS funds are managed can also be applied to national co-financing. The importers point out that it is systematically governed by the Public Finance Act (public Finance Act) and by the changes in art. 1, as defined in the Additional and Final Provisions of the Draft Law, the aim is to overcome the framework in the RFF, which treats for national co-financing and the beneficiaries' own contribution. This should lead to the elimination of the likelihood of a distortion of the principle of financial corrections, i.e. to recover the damage caused by the infringement without being of a concessional nature to the beneficiary. Changes in art. Art. 64, Art. 75 aim to achieve better financial discipline and protection of public contribution. In cases where there is a suspicion of an irregularity and those where a financial correction is carried out in the case of one already established, it is envisaged to regulate the payment of the grant financial assistance (BFP). The bill also provides for the rationalization of administrative practice. By modification of art. 36 The managing authorities shall be given the opportunity to determine themselves the period within which beneficiaries should provide relevant evidence when receiving the grant. In the current version of the law, this period is fixed to 10 days. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that there are often objective reasons why beneficiaries are not able to provide the necessary documents within a 10-day period, and this could become a reason for refusing grants. Last but not least, it should be noted that a proposal has also been made to determine a separate amount of the court fee when contesting the decision to terminate the grant proceedings at the stage of administrative compliance and eligibility. The importers point out that the change is necessary due to a legal gap with regard to the court fee in contesting the termination decisions. In the previous practice, the court has applied by analogy the fee set to challenge individual administrative acts and its amount is unduly high in challenging such types of decisions. National representatives Ivan Ivanov, Christian Vigenin, Petar Petrov and Ivelina Vassileva took part in the discussion held after the presentation of the Law. A number of questions have been asked regarding the envisaged amendments. The President of the Commission on European Affairs has informed that opinions have been received by the members of the Public Council to the Commission and should be taken into account in the vote. The importers have assured that they do not object to the deadline for submitting proposals under the Bill to extend between first and second readings and the texts on open issues to be refined. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Commission on European Issues with 3 votes "for" and 5 votes "abstained" proposed to the National Assembly not to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the European Structures and Investment Funds Management Act, No 754-01-53, submitted by Ivelina Vassileva, Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova on 8 September 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u7	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. There is no report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u8	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I take the floor not so much on the negative vote, which gave one of the main committees I believe is the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds in relation to the upcoming Presidency of Bulgaria of the Council of the European Union. I address rather the heads of the parliamentary groups. Here, unfortunately, I see only one of them Mr. Tsvetanov, the others are gone, they have important work to do. I would like to pay attention to how this Commission is formed. It is formed to make consensus decisions on issues concerning Bulgaria concerning our future presidency. In discussing this issue, I have heard opinions that almost non-governmental organisations have had an impact on the negative opinion given by the Commission. I believe that this negative opinion by the Commission means that we want municipalities to continue to be punished, to be sanctioned so that some of them are bankrupt. This Commission decision also means that we want to remain the 10-day period within which questions must be answered by the managing authorities which require, in some cases, one month to take an opinion from the relevant electricity distribution company. This means that we want to maintain the current status, which has, for example, the Rural Development Programme, which is not subject to this European Fund Act. This is what we voted yesterday and gave our negative opinion. We don't want this state to go on. Please, the deputies, or the commissioners of the heads of the parliamentary groups, inform them that it is not appropriate for the Commission on European Affairs and European Funds chosen on a money-based principle to give these negative signals, because we are practically declaring ourselves against elementary rules that must be respected in the absorption of European funds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u9	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines to his statement? I can't see. A statement has been made by the National Representative Ivan Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! Today your attention is offered an amendment to the Law on the Management of Funds from European Structures and Investment Funds, and only almost a year since it was adopted. It was adopted with an aplomb and with a great ambition to bring order to the management of the funds we receive from the European Union. Today at this examination and yesterday in the Commission we were impressed that it was tabled by MPs and not, as should be normal, to pass through the Council of Ministers, where you should have noticed some weaknesses in its implementation, some irregularities. We were surprised precisely by the haste with which this Bill is being introduced to avoid all the co-ordination procedures through which it is normal for a bill to pass through the Council of Ministers. It was also normal to be abstentioned in the Commission on this subject, as much of the texts proposed to us for amendment had, to put it mildly, a controversial nature. Few opinions were received from NGOs, from beneficiaries, from the Association of Municipalities, which were not extremely positive about the proposed changes. It was explained to us that the changes are being imposed in connection with case-law, which is already based on the application of the Law and which is to the detriment not of the beneficiaries, but of those who apply the Law and which release the funds, namely the Ministry, the managing authorities and so on. I think that in this case it is a bit controversial by law to determine the conduct of the court and in such a way to punish precisely the public, especially public beneficiaries, such as the municipalities. There is also a serious danger of course, this is a discussion issue which between first and second reading should be cleared. Whether this Law imposes a more severe financial burden on municipalities, which most often suffer from the so-called....................................... since.................................................in the previous programming period........................................................................................................................................................ These were also the reasons why we should abstain in the Commission, not a small part of the Commissioners, not as Mr Petrov said, because we have our own vision, to hinder the bills. On the contrary, there is probably a need for a change in this Law, but the way in which we have been presented is not in its fullness and does not convince us in an absolutely definite way that these changes must be made. There was also the question of the so-called ten-day-old. You understand that not setting a deadline even within a two-week, one-month period, whatever it is, would make it absolutely timeless for beneficiaries to provide documents and would in no case have a disciplinary effect in terms of the preparation they need to do. This opinion was expressed by the Public Council to the Commission, which gave their view that, in a future trial, a beneficiary who has allowed himself for months to drag on, to delay the submission of documents to the managing authority in its favour, respectively, will judge the court, because a reasonable period of time is recorded in the current text. What does a reasonable period mean? Yeah, right, the old 10-day term was extremely short, but we still have to find some kind of option where these people actually discipline them in some way, be 15 days, you know, a month or two, because otherwise we put them in a spiral that's going to be infinite. After all, I hope that, in the discussions between first and second readings, we will be convinced, of course, if this Bill is adopted today, because it has also become clear to the Commission yesterday that a large part of the political forces are not convinced of the right of these requests, which are laid down as texts within, of course, if it passes, to refine these texts and make them useful to both the managing authorities and, accordingly, the ministries which grant the funds and these beneficiaries, especially the public who benefit from these funds. We still have an unpleasant feeling that the Law is being made precisely to combat a caselaw which has already been imposed in administrative courts and is in favour of beneficiaries who mourn the financial corrections imposed. That is, we put them in an environment that would be extremely unfavorable to them. It is for this reason that we will abstain from the support of this Law. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines to his statement? First line, Mrs. Vassileva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Ivanov! Several comments have been made by you, which I think should be clarified and refined. First of all, the texts that are related to the clear regulation of the elements of grant financing, namely the ESI Funds and national co-financing, are something that we think will make clear, will limit various practices both from the point of view of judicial practices and from the point of view of treatment by the managing authorities. That is to say, this is something that is done in the interests of sound financial management, in the interests of the beneficiaries, because the texts also aim to refine this part, which clearly states that only grant funding is subject to financial correction and not to the beneficiary's own contribution, because then this would already be treated as a fine or a penalty and in this sense would make the situation difficult for the beneficiaries. As for the deadlines, I think it is clear to all that the time limits laid down in the Law are aimed at discipline of the entire system. This was a major objective when the Law was established, and the specific deadline for providing documents proving facts and data declared by the applicants during the application is a period that is valid for all beneficiaries, a period that is announced by the managing authorities in the application guidelines and in this sense your concerns cannot be valid. The principle of good discipline is respected, the principle and equal treatment of applicants in the procedures for applying for funding are respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Daniel Kirilov's second line, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague Ivanov, first of all, I would like to object to your opinion that the MPs are somehow replacing the legislative initiative of the Council of Ministers. I stress that it is not right for the MPs themselves to launch such a disparaging approach to the initiative of the people's representation. Secondly, I do not see any basis at all for the considerations that you have presented. Secondly, and specifically for this Law, I would like to point out that your findings on the speed of the amendments are incorrect and that, you see, this was almost the first amendment. I think of two more amendments to this Law, Mr. Ivanov, and you must remember them because they are from the past National Assembly, they were related to the establishment of administrative judicial control regarding disputes related to financial corrections. If you remember, for the first time there was an innovative introduction of the rules of appeal for administrative contracts, there was respect for administrative practice and for the caselaw. Mr. Ivanov, I stress here a lot, and please understand.. There is no wrong for the legislator to correct a caselaw that changes the meaning of its legislation. I support the initiative of my fellow Members and apologise to the entire House that due to the over-loading of the Legal Commission, it has failed to discuss this bill, which I fully support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u15	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Vasileva, dear Mr. Kirilov! You are trying to convince us that this Bill to date is necessary, but I say again that neither with your lines nor with the texts have you been able to convince us that the changes made are not in the direction precisely to damage beneficiaries through, as I said, there is nothing wrong with legislative change of case law. I think in this case we have a bad taste in that direction. In terms of time limits, Mrs. Vassileva. Such a period in practice with the text you propose is no longer available. It used to be ten days ago, and now we have a reasonable deadline. A reasonable time frame is an extremely stretching concept. Mr. Kirilov, as a lawyer, chair of the Legal Commission, can tell you that a reasonable deadline is not something that is bound by some time limit. Isn't that right, Mr. Kirilov? [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Could be a month, could be a year. A reasonable deadline may also be two years and shall in no case be disciplined with regard to beneficiaries. If we give a reasonable period, clearly stated in the Law, to be it monthly, two months, three months, or something that really enters any time limits, because the caselaw shows that when we do not have a definite time limit, the court will accept any one time limit that has been requested by the party concerned. Once again, we really do not take the wrong approach by means of a law when practices that benefit beneficiaries are seen, to make them unfavorable to them. There is indeed a danger from now on that we are going to make precisely European funds unattractive to beneficiaries, in some way starting to push them away. Believe me, as Commissioner, I have already seen enough fracking cases of beneficiaries, especially public ones who are literally brought to the brink of bankruptcy for one reason or another. Whole areas of Bulgaria no longer have any interest in applying for EU funds precisely for reasons of administrative and judicial nature, which bring them into an adverse situation, rather close to bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen, in general the Law is not a bad idea, but not to turn its execution into something harmful and unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u16	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u17	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! From BSP we will refrain from supporting this project as we have a few remarks to it, the main one is the gap between the submitted Bill and the desire that is stated by the importer. What do I mean? The importer states that these changes are made in order to refine and eliminate them to the maximum extent the risk of a different approach in the individual management processes. I am very sorry, but at the moment we have a unified approach with regard to the deadline, namely it is specifically stated 10 days, while now a deadline is being proposed, which is worldwide unknown, namely the reasonable time frame. It is difficult to explain what a reasonable period of time means. Reason is subjective. It's one thing, it's another. But what's more important? It is allowed for the managing authority to unilaterally set a time limit as it deems necessary or as elegantly made an escape as it considers reasonable. But what is behind this proposal? In this way, the management body is given the opportunity to rearrange players, i.e. those who are not prepared, who are behind and have any irregularities in the projects, to give a reasonable period, as they are said, to remove them, and as Radoj Ralyn said: the latter to become the first. The other thing that is being made with this proposal, I think it is an accident, and it is not intentional that a corrupt environment is being created, for some agreements that we all at least publicly claim to want and definitely avoid. There is no such competition where the rules are not known in advance, and before the start of the match the referee announces them and plays the match. This is our first consideration, which is why we cannot support it. The second is on the proposals made in § 6 where, in practice, any natural or legal person can submit an alert for an irregularity. On this basis, the management body shall initiate a procedure which, as time is quite long and long. In practice, due to the wide range of people who can send signals and the lack of time for their completion, the proposal will block payments under the programmes indefinitely. It is clear from this that this will also reflect negatively on the financial situation of the beneficiary. And we must not forget that, in their vast majority, the beneficiaries are the municipalities. In view of this, the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party will abstain and will not support the proposed Draft.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u18	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines to his statement? Mr. Lazarov, here's the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u19	Dear Madam President, dear colleague! I heard something that kind of surprised me. " A reasonable period of time " as a concept and as content was something worldwide unknown. Excuse me, first of all, it's in our legislation, in very few laws. Secondly, look, there is such a rich practice in terms of the European Union's reasonable period of time for the protection of human rights, where it is said that it is not measured in days, months and years, and depending on the circumstances it is assessed whether a period of time for example, an investigation can be reasonable or unreasonable, depending on the type, shape, severity. It is the same in this case as in what needs to be presented. I do not wish to enter into debates, but please refrain from such definitions that the reasonable term was a concept of world unknown.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u20	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Is there another line? I can't see. Would you like a douche? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u21	Dear Mr. Lazarov, I appreciate your efforts to legitimize this proposal, but as far as the reasonable deadline is concerned, there is still no legal definition for this period. Practice is different. And in that sense, I can tell you that there are over 1 billion believers in Christ, but no one has seen it yet. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u22	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. A serious argument was made in favour of the speech. Are there any other statements? Mrs. Vasileva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! My speech will be brief because, in fact, quite detailed were the debates in the committees in which the Bill was examined. First of all, as has become clear, the nature of the amendments proposed is legally technical and it aims to refine texts, to refine the regulation of procedures that concern effective and efficient management of public funds. In this sense, I think that we are all aware that the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Act, which has been operating for a year and a half, has proved to be an indisputably useful instrument which clearly regulates the relations between the I therefore believe that the topics that have been discussed today, of course, could be the subject of proposals by colleagues during the period between first and second readings. However, I would like to emphasise once again that perhaps some of these issues are also related to a misunderstanding of the process and procedure as it flows when providing free funding. The specific deadline, which relates only to the procedure relating to the verification of declared data by the beneficiary in the application process, is in favour of the beneficiaries. It certainly does not mean arbitrariness of the managing authorities, because this is a period given after, firstly, the application guidelines set the time limit applicable to the specific procedure, after which all candidates on an equal footing are aware of this, preparing their projects. These projects are being evaluated. They appreciate each other. If the positive assessment of the project proposal is to result in the signing of a contract and, within these days, 10, under this Law Regulation, the beneficiary cannot provide the necessary documentation physically, it appears that he cannot sign a grant contract under a purely formal procedure. That is why this provision has been introduced. As I said, this does not mean arbitrariness of the managing authorities, because the application guidelines themselves are subject to control, public discussions. They're published before the procedures start, but these are details. Rather, I would like to emphasise again that, with the proposed changes, we are actually achieving clearer, precise and complementary regulatory regulation in relation to separate processes in the management of funds from the ESI Funds and the proposals are motivated by the accumulated practices of both the managing authorities and the administrative courts in their exercise of judicial control. They aim, of course, at sound financial management and control, to streamline administrative practice and optimize the system for managing funds from the ESI Funds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u24	Thank you. Are there any lines to Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva's statement? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u25	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mrs. Vasileva, it sounded a little harsh to me that we do not understand the process of approving project proposals....... these were your words, and from now on we cannot understand the subtleties in the procedures. That period was discussed in the Commission. I asked twice the question that means that for some there will be ten days, for another we will have twenty days. The assessment will be individual. It came out because I didn't get an answer to the question. The second question that I would like to put: what is this legal specification with regard to the delegation of powers? You can finally delegate powers to the lowest level of experts. Why? Because it is true that the minister is a governing body, but he has orders that give the right to deputy ministers, that is to say the political cabinet to manage the respective portfolios,...............you have rules adopted by the Council of Ministers, by the relevant ministries, and there are written powers. In this way the delegation can reach the lowest levels and this is what you propose, and yet you could not justify why you did it. A separate Fund for Agriculture, which is therefore subject to special attention the Executive Director to make adjustments, this is the case now. Legally and technically I do not know what your motives are, but be assured that we understand the procedures for approving the projects, because we are from 2007 in the European Union and are familiar with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u26	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. Is there a second line? I won't. If you'd like a duplicate, please, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, I will refrain from emotions, really strictly factually try to respond to your reply. It is a question, once again, of a procedure which is the final phase before signing a contract with a beneficiary and for which the deadline is set by the managing authority even in the application guidelines before the selection of the project proposals has started. And this period, this procedure, is valid for all potential beneficiaries, meaning there is no risk of unequal treatment. As far as the State Fund is concerned, this Act treats the European Structural and Investment Funds, management and control systems, and in fact subdues all relationships in this system of administrative procedure. In this sense, it is necessary to define the administrative authority which has the power to issue administrative acts because, naturally, those administrative acts are subject to judicial review. In this sense, I say again, the objectives of the proposals are to achieve full clarity about the designation of both the administrative authority and the procedures which are in full compliance with the general financial regulation 13/03, as well as the APC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act No 754-01-53, submitted by the MPs Ivelina Vassileva, Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova on 8 September 2017. Vote 171 MPs: 110 against 6, abstention 55. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u29	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to propose, not on behalf of a group, but on my behalf, a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u30	Procedure on behalf of Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u31	I would like to propose that the period between first and second readings under the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Act be increased to the maximum three-year term. I say this because, first of all, there was such a request from the importers that they were ready to extend this deadline. And, secondly, I believe that this haste on 8 September has been introduced the Law, today we already accept it at first reading. This did not allow even the Legal Commission to express an opinion on it. I believe that if you had expressed such an opinion, part of the discussion here would have been exhausted in advance in terms of terms such as reasonable terms and other things related to the mandate. Let us therefore give time, first of all, to colleagues from the Legal Commission, secondly, to NGOs dealing with this topic to give their opinions, including the Association of Municipalities, to revise their proposals and make them more correct during this period so that they can be tabled. I think that our goal of Parliament is, after all, to make changes that are positive, and not to overrun the adoption of this Law, as we are still talking about a law that affects billions of levs and affects the whole country, every single project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Back proposal Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u33	Madam President, I'm making a reverse procedural proposal. The bill is extremely small, it is about several texts, so three weeks is an extremely long time for such a project between first and second readings. I believe that the sooner we accept it, the faster the municipalities will benefit, and the beneficiaries of the positive side of the bill, and therefore I propose that we extend the period of 10 days back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u34	We're going to vote. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr Vigenin to extend the deadline for three weeks. They voted 170 MPs: 70, against 61, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the second proposal for an extension of the deadline by 10 days. Vote 166 MPs: 100 against 16, abstention 50. The motion is accepted. Group statement, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 21 September, the UN member states noted the International Day of Peace. Let me remind you that the foundations of the European Union lay the ideas for peace, for the sacred duty of every statesman to keep it at all costs. Already in the Declaration of May 9, 1950, Robert Schumann pointed out: "World peace cannot be preserved without creative efforts proportionate to the dangers that are facing it. " Today, more than ever, we need the UN's call to resolve all conflicts on the planet peacefully. In the current situation of a continuing threat of terrorism, of non-false conflicts and violence in various parts of the planet, it is now essential that a path be made to finding dialogue, to appease the sharp contradictions and respect of those who think otherwise, to the right of states to live according to their traditions, beliefs and cultural identity. That is why, as the UN Charter says: "Let us be more patient and live together as good neighbours. " Today, on International Peace Day, let us make commitments, regardless of our party biases, that we will be united against those internal and external forces that call for hatred, for self-harassment through arms and violence that do not respect the right of the other, the opponent, the opinion and his freedom of other thinking. Let us promise that we will not allow the contemporary generations of Bulgaria to be involved in armed conflict and become smoked meat, serving foreign interests. We will work for Bulgaria a bridge of understanding and friendship between the peoples. We will work for Bulgaria.. an economically prosperous and social European state. A country where education and national culture are saddened for peaceful development and spiritual greatness of the nation, a country in which generations have the security to raise their children, and the elderly are calm about their old age. We are sure that peace is not utopia from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, is not an unattainable goal. Peace is a reality that depends on all of us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u36	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Now we move on to the next item on the agenda. FIRST READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADMINISTERATION OF THE LAW FOR THE ADMINISTRATION, No 702-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. The word for a report of the Legal Commission is Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u37	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Before presenting to your attention the report under the Law on Administration, I would like to point out and clarify that Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev waited for more than half an hour in the towers of parliament to get to the discussion of this bill. But because of his participation in a meeting of the Council of Ministers at 10:00 he could not wait to proceed to this discussion. I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration, No 702-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. At its meeting held on 13 September 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration, No 702-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister, and Mrs. Maria Tomova, Director-Director General Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mr. Donchev, who pointed out that the amendments are related to improving the legislation of the inspectors and introducing the principle of improving quality in the activities of the administration. It is envisaged that the structure and minimum number of inspectors, the order and manner of their activities and the interaction with specialized control bodies should be determined by a regulation adopted by the Council of Ministers. The amendments create conditions for increasing the efficiency of inspectors and achieve their greater independence as internal administrative control units. Uniform rules and procedures governing the activities of inspectors under the Administration Act shall be introduced and a common system shall be established to prevent, detect and eliminate violations in the functioning of the administration. A definition of the concept of administrative control is introduced, thereby distinguishing the functions of inspectors under the Administration Act from those of other control bodies. The bill introduces a quality management system in central and local administration, which will improve public services provided in line with citizens' and business expectations. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hristian Mitev, Krum Zarkov and Danail Kirilov, who expressed their support for the bill. Mr. Mitev raised a question about the level of coordination between the Law and the Draft Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, as with regard to the control activities of the inspectorates and in view of their activities in preventing and countering corruption, these two legal acts have some similarity. In response Mr. Donchev pointed out that there is no potential for a collision between the two projects because it refers to different types of control. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 16 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 702-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u38	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Following the opinion of the Commission on the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Here you are.. Chairman Boris Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe the Commission for the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration, No 702-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. The Commission for the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics at its meeting held on 14 September 2017 examined and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Administration, No 702-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017 for the first vote. The meeting was attended by Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister, and Mrs. Maria Tomova, Head of the Chief Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers. The motives of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Administration were presented by Mr. Tomislav Donchev. He pointed out the main guidelines of the proposals made in the Draft Law, which are to improve the legislation of inspectors and introduce the principle of improving the quality of the administrative services provided. It was pointed out that control over the administration's activities is important both to ensure its effective work and to prevent and counter corruption practices. They are detailed in the broad functions of the Chief Inspectorate regarding the assessment of the activities of the inspectorates in order to support the implementation of the state anti-corruption policy. The introduction of enhanced methodological control by the management body aims to minimise the possibility of political and administrative influence on sectoral structures. The bill provides for the preparation of a strategic and annual plan of the Chief Inspectorate and the departmental inspectorates for greater transparency in their activities. The second direction of legislative amendments complements the basic principles of the administration's activities, adding the principle of continuous improvement of its quality, defining the concepts of the quality management system and administrative control, aiming at improving the efficiency of policies and improving the quality of public services in line with citizens' and businesses' expectations. After the presentation of the bill, the chairman of the commission Boris Yachev raised a question about the possibility of inspectors carrying out checks on commercial companies with state participation. It was clarified that these companies would not be subject to control by inspectors but by other verifiers such as the State Financial Inspection Agency and the Court of Auditors. Following the discussion, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission: with 7 votes for the administration; with no anti-Corruption and Abstention Committee, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Administration, No 702-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u40	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Apparently, there won't be an opinion from the importers. I'm opening the discussion. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members! Are there any speeches? Apparently not. We're closing the discussion. I put to the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration, an importer is the Council of Ministers, submitted on 29 August 2017. Vote 117 MPs: 79, none, abstention 38. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, we proceed to the next item on the adopted agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MINISTERITY OF INTERNAL WORKS. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 22 August 2017. Here you are, Mr. Tachev, to present the Internal Security and Public Order Committee Report. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u41	Madam President, I propose a procedure for admission in plenary to the Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u42	Voting regime for admission to the plenary of Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov. They voted 114 MPs: 110 against 1, abstention 3. The proposal is accepted show Deputy Minister Tzipov to the Chamber. Continue, Mr. Tachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u43	Madam President, honourable Members! I suggest to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Ministry of Interior Act, No 702-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017. At its regular meeting on 13 September 2017, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 702-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017. The meeting was attended by Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Interior, Senior Commissioner Todor Grebenarov, Deputy Director of the Directorate-General of the National Police and Commissioner Boyko Ranovski, Head of the Police Department, Maya Yovcheva, Head of the Legal Department of the Directorate-General of the National Police, Petya Karayaneva, representative of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Krasimir Tsipov. In his statement he noted that the main objective of the Bill was to refine texts and remove imperfections in separate provisions of the Ministry of Interior Act, as well as amendments and additions to other laws related to the functional competence of the Ministry of Interior. The project extends the powers of the police authorities of the Directorate-General for Border Police, who will be able to carry out operational and search activities and investigation of crimes related to their functional competence throughout the country. A long-term and sustainable requirement for the professional preparation of investigative officers is provided. In addition, the law in force on the Ministry of Interior in the direction of police authorities should be able to accompany persons for whom a short-term accommodation order has been issued on the basis of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as for persons for whom this is provided by law. A clear regulation is being established for the security of objects from the Ministry of Interior by removing the contradictions in the current regulations. The powers of employees who will be able to carry out security of sites not provided for management by the Ministry of Interior and to assist in the protection of public order shall be extended. Changes have also been made to the administrative criminal provisions of the Law on the Ministry of Interior and to the Law on the Protection of Disasters, which have brought the amount of fines and penalty payments with the gravity of the infringement, the motives for carrying out and other mitigating and boring circumstances under the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. In order to be effective in preventing corruption practices, texts relating to the verification of the declared facts and the texts introducing time limits on checks shall be refined. For the introduction into national legislation of Directive 2014/46/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on vehicle registration documents, additions and amendments to the Road Traffic Act have been made. The notions of termination of registration, the temporary withdrawal of registration and the temporary withdrawal of registration are arranged. The Law on Disaster Protection lays down a mechanism for the association of voluntary formations at national level, as well as the conditions under which local disclosure systems are required to be integrated with the National Early Warning and Disclosure System. The amendments to the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria introduce additional measures to ensure the return of third-country nationals in accordance with Directive 2008/115/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008. The Transitional and Final Provisions provide for amendments to the National Emergency System Act with a single European number 112. The concept of "Call" is introduced in accordance with national and European legislation. The call is an emergency call from a vehicle at 112, made automatically to make a sound connection between passengers in the vehicle and the most suitable emergency call centre. The Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents extends the legal deadline for electronic identification and electronic authentication to be placed in the Bulgarian Personal Documents by one year. The proposed amendments to the Road Traffic Act are aimed at introducing European vehicle registration legislation, as well as changes to the plantation and other provisions to eliminate existing law enforcement deficiencies by the competent authorities. With the Bill, regulations in other laws are also being refined. The adoption of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior and the amendments to other laws does not lead to the need to provide additional funds. Members of the National Assembly Ivan Ivanov, Krasimir Yankov and Tsvetan Tsvetanov took part in the debates. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 10 votes for the House, without the opposition and 8 votes for the National Assembly, proposed to adopt a draft supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior in August 22, 2017. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Tachev. The next report is from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Here you go, Mr. Milushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! "COMMODITY" on a bill amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 702-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 20 September 2017, a Bill amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior was discussed, No 702-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of the Interior, and Commissioner Boyko Ranovski, Head of the Road Police Department, Head of the Directorate General of the National Police. The bill was presented by Mr. Krasimir Tsipov. During the presentation of the Bill, importers pointed out the reasons for imposing amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act, as well as the need to refine certain texts and remove imperfections in separate provisions of the Law. The bill amends and complements other laws of the functional competence of the Ministry of Interior. The proposed amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Act (TPA) are imposed due to the need to introduce into national legislation the requirements of Directive 2014/46/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 amending Council Directive 1999/37/EC on vehicle registration documents. According to the Directive, the notions of temporary withdrawal of registration should be settled, termination of registration. As a result of the analysis of law enforcement, imperfections in the legal provisions of the Law have been removed. The importers argued that in the current version of art. 171, p. No time-limits for the enforcement measures under point 2 of the R&D are given. 2, b. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The proposed modification of the provision of art. 177, para. 3 is justified by frequent road failures which are largely caused by drivers of motor vehicles intended for the transport of goods and aim at limiting the possibility of crossing such vehicles over a certain tonnage on the road network. By virtue of art. 183, para. 3, p. A fine of BGN 30 is provided for 5 of the DPA. for a driver entering after a sign prohibiting the entry of the relevant road vehicle, and according to art. 179, para. 1, t. 5 of the same Law on non-compliance with the prescription of road signs, if this creates an immediate danger to traffic, a fine of 150 BGN shall be imposed. These sanctions apply to heavy goods drivers and are not effective enough, which is why the fine is proposed to increase from 500 to 3000 BGN. With the amendment in art. 180, para. 1, t. 3 of the DPA aims to avoid duplication in the legal framework. In the same Law there are two separate texts which impose parking tickets for public transport of passengers: a fine of 20 to 150 BGN. ..................................................... 180, para. 1, t. 3, for parking the stops of vehicles from the regular public passenger transport lines, as well as a fine of 50 BGN. ..................................................... 183, para. 4 t. 8 for parking in the pedestrian road area, public passenger or crossroad stop. Those two texts, although they relate to the same type of infringement, introduce two different sanctions in size and are written in two different ways. This leads to the application of different practice when imposing penalties. It is envisaged to refine the texts of the Law relating to the imposition of the penalty for non-compliance with the rules of pre-emption. Changes are also proposed in the provisions relating to administrative infringements which are identified at the time of their execution and for which no penalty is provided for deprivation of the right to drive a motor vehicle or withdrawal of control points. Those on-the-spot infringements may be subject to a fine of either the minimum amount or the amount specified in the administrative penalty provision for the infringement concerned. Where a minimum penalty is not set or is not fixed on the intruder, a fine of an absolute minimum may be imposed. Following the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 12 votes for the Ministry of Interior, 7 votes against the Council of Ministers and 2 votes abstention, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 702-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Milushev. The latest report is from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mrs. Grozdanova will present him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u47	Madam President, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 702-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017. At its regular meeting held on 20 September 2017, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 702-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The draft was presented by Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Petar Toshkov, Chief Legal Consultant at the Department of Regional Affairs and EU Law at the Department of Legal and Normal Activities at the Ministry of Interior, and Commissioner Boyko Ranovski. I. This Bill aims to refine texts and remove imperfections in separate provisions of the Ministry of Interior Act, as well as to amend and supplement other laws of the functional competence of the Ministry of Interior. The proposed amendments to the Road Traffic Act (TPA) seek to harmonise national legislation with the requirements of Directive 2014/46/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 by specifying the notions of temporary withdrawal of registration, termination of registration and The importer points out that as a result of the analysis of law enforcement under the Law on Law Enforcement, imperfections in the legal provisions of the Law have been removed and a change in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees is also envisaged. The changes in plantation and other provisions of the DPA are aimed at remedying existing deficiencies in law enforcement by road traffic control authorities. II. It is important to note that the deadline for transposition into the Bulgarian legislation of Directive 2014/46/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 amending Council Directive 1999/37/EC on vehicle registration documents was June 2017. Failure to adopt timely transposition actions would lead to the initiation of criminal proceedings against the Republic of Bulgaria. III. There are also envisaged amendments to the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria (HRD), which introduce additional measures to ensure the return of third-country nationals in accordance with Directive 2008/115/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 on common standards and procedures applicable in the Member States for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. The amendments seek to introduce the requirements of the Directive relating to the use of detention for the purpose of removal into the FCH. It should be limited and subject to the principle of proportionality as regards the measure taken and the objectives pursued, and detention is justified only in order to prepare the return or to carry out the extraction process, and where the application of lighter enforcement measures would not be sufficient. IV. Last but not least, amendments to the National Emergency System Act with a single European number of 112 are envisaged. The concept of eCall is introduced in accordance with the requirements of national and European legislation. Mr. Christian Vigenin, Mr. Ivan Ivanov and Mr. Petar Petrov took part in the discussion held after the presentation of the reasons. The MPs discussed whether the proposed amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act contain elements that are not directly related to the need to adopt European legislation. It has been noted that the Transitional and Final Provisions provide for changes to a number of laws and it must be clarified what reasons they have imposed on them. Deputy Minister Tzipov explained that the preparation for this bill had started as early as May. There were then proposals from all the main structures of the Ministry of Interior for changes to a number of laws, one of which is precisely the DCP. He informed that there were changes in the DTPs which were dictated by the need to refine certain texts, as well as the elimination of discrepancies with respect to the sanctification provisions provided for in the current DTPs. They are not related to the transposition of the requirements of Directive 2014/46/EU. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 3 votes for the European Parliament and 4 votes for the National Assembly not to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 702-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u48	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the proposal for amendment and supplement of the Ministry of Interior Act there is recognition for the finding that we have made in the previous term of Borisov's management for chaos in the system. This is another proposal for amendment and addition to the Ministry of Interior Act. Dear colleagues, how many more amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act will the ruling majority propose?! I recall that the Law gives reasons for stability of the system. Minister Veselin Vuchkov had his own vision and had proposals for amendments to the Law. Minister Rumyana Bachvarova had another vision and again adopted amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act. Now Minister is Valentin Radev and this is the third time we have amended the Ministry of Interior Act. I ask myself the question: the next Minister of Interior within this mandate will probably have another view? In fact, with the IDC of the Ministry of Interior Act, it is proposed to extend the powers of the police authorities of the Directorate-General for Border Police and to be able to fulfil their functional duties in carrying out operational and search activities and investigating crimes throughout the country. It will create, firstly, duplication of activities and to some extent chaos in investigating crimes, and secondly, again shows a finding that we have made by the BSP that the interrelationships between the different functional units have been broken. There is no interaction between the individual units of the.. they are not informed of the actions taken and do not work as a homogeneous structure according to the functions they have. This certainly enables individual units to work in parallel on the same case. As effective as this will be, answer it yourself. In the Appendix to art. 15 of the Ministry of Interior Act provides a long-term and sustainable settlement of the professional preparation of investigative police officers. The Attorney General waved his finger at the investigative officers, at the Ministry of Interior, that the collected evidence was not fit. This is a long-standing dispute between the Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Interior, from the time it was loudly yelling: we catch them. It is immediately reacted because it is very difficult to blame whether the authorities of the Ministry of Interior have the capacity, have the competence to carry out an investigation with good evidence to carry out in full the functions of the justice system. The first unit as a necessity is precisely the investigation into the Ministry of Interior. The second question: who will pay? How much is this going to cost to the budget of the Ministry of Interior? Or would it be necessary for every investigating officer to pay out of his pocket for this preparation, because it became clear that there is no money in the Ministry of Interior? I think it's more important the motivation of the employees in the Ministry of Interior system. Once again, I draw your attention to the fact that they must be satisfied with their request to raise their remuneration, their attitude, their technical means, so that they can also use their competence, the capacity of the services, the experience they have accumulated to carry out a qualitative investigation. It won't work with just preparation and preparation. In confirmation of the chaos to come, the issue of security, which may be provided by the Ministry of Interior for payment, is dealt with. I ask myself the question: since there are functions in the Ministry of Interior, which are part of this, national strategic sites that are extremely important for national security must be guarded by the Ministry of Interior, why is it also necessary to deal with the issue of payment to the Ministry of Interior? How does it affect the budget and how will it be proposed in the discussion of next year's budget? What exactly will be the budget of the Ministry of Interior and how these funds will be spent, all the more so that it is both about guaranteeing contracts and fire safety. There is a legal possibility to carry out security, by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, of sites other than those provided for the management of the Ministry of Interior under art. 92. Well, it's a commercial activity of the Ministry of Interior. The Ministry of Interior is already on the market for security companies. Perhaps that is why both laws are running in parallel: the change in the Ministry of Interior Act and a new Private Security Act, and it is denied that there will be no new restructuring and regulation of the private security market. As guilty, you run away from him, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority. We are warning you that with instability in the legislation you cannot expect the employees of the Ministry of Interior to be calm and to work according to the regulatory base! Confirmation of my words about the chaos in the law of the ruling majority, with the amendments to the law on the Ministry of Interior, in the transitional and final regulations, changes nine more laws, including the Law on Road Traffic, which, if you remember, last week we looked at plenary and adopted changes. Why? How many more changes in different laws will be made through the transitional and final provisions? Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, the National Assembly's agenda, as expected by our voters, should be in line with the agenda set by them. What you are proposing with another change in the Ministry of Interior Act is not as expected by the people will not lead to effective work of the authorities to ensure the safety and calmness of the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Any lines to Mr. Iankov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Ahmedov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u51	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, the proposed Draft Law amending the Ministry of Interior Act, as shown by its motives, aims to refine the texts and remove imperfections in the various provisions of the Law, as well as to amend and supplement nine other laws relating to the competence of the Ministry of Interior. One of the main arguments of importers is the necessary transposition of Directive 2014/46 of the European Union into the Bulgarian legislation in order to avoid criminal proceedings against our country. According to the proposals to be supported, the newly established grounds for issuing regulations governing the watershed activity in the Ministry of Interior, as well as matters relating to the provision of a translator to persons subject to search or other police powers leading to a restriction or violation of the privacy of those persons or their property. The absence of the regulations so far governing those activities is linked to the existence of a certain emptiness in law. However, texts of the project are also ahead of us, which raise serious concerns. About the text of art. 91 which introduces exceptions to the rule that means of apparent surveillance cannot be used to monitor the interior of residential buildings, I believe that the proposals for change pose a risk of unlawful interference in the private life of citizens and possible non-compliance with art. 8 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe. Until a clear regulation of the powers and order of use is adopted, we cannot support such an opportunity. The most serious concern is the editorial of art. 92 with which the police will be able to guard premises on the basis of contracts concluded, including signal-security and other equipment. The view of this norm is the impression that the Security Police Directorate, which was primarily responsible for the protection and security of strategically important and important sites, was once again established in the structures of the Ministry of Interior. This impression is reinforced by the proposed version, which envisions during the implementation of a contract the Ministry of Interior to appoint new employees for this purpose. The same will apply to the fire department, which will be able to carry out fire-fighting and rescue activities after a contract with stakeholders. In its current form, the Bill could not optimize the complex processes in the Ministry of Interior anyway. It is because we are all witnessing the ongoing tension between the employees and the Minister of Interior, and the proposed amendments do not coincide with the expectations of the public and the employees in the system. We, from the DPS, will not support the proposed amendments in this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Ahmedov. Replies to Mr. Ahmedov's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 702-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017. Please, voting mode. Vote 163 MPs: 98, against 48, abstention 17. The proposal is adopted and with this the first reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior. There's a procedure for Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Procedure for extending the period between the first and second reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 702-01-9, dated 18 July 2017 by another five days.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u54	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 153 MPs: 146, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR POLITICAL AND CIVIL REABILITATION OF REQUIRED PERSONS. Report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues present to you ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, No 754-01-41, submitted by Mustafa Sali Karadaye and a group of MPs on 7 July 2017. At a regular meeting held on 14 September 2017, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights discussed a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, No 754-01-41, submitted by Mustafa Sali Karadayi and a group of MPs on 7 July 2017. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Ivan Enicharov from the Ministry of Finance and Mr. Ivaylo Tanev from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Petya Malakova from the Department of Legal Law, Social Security and Labour; and representatives of NGOs. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov. The Law proposes supplementing the categories of persons who are considered political and civilly rehabilitated but do not fall within the scope of art. 2 of the Law. These are the people who suffered gunshot wounds in peaceful protests against repressive government policies of the communist regime. Their rehabilitation is not possible on the basis of the grounds existing in the Law, as no penalty has been pronounced against them, have not been imprisoned or incarcerated. The victims were not able to obtain legal protection or any other form of protection. According to importers, the main objective of the bill is to make official recognition of the fact of repression by the communist regime, carried out for political or other ideological reasons. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy presented their views on the bill. They argued that in the Draft Law, the circle of persons mentioned is very general and goes beyond the subject of the Law "rehabilitation of repressed persons specifically because of their origin, political beliefs or religious beliefs. The reasons of the bill give concrete examples of victims in the collective development of agriculture, changing the names suffered during the exercise of their right to peaceful protests, but the proposed provisions do not make this clear. The proposal to introduce a new category of repressed in art. 1 The persons who are injured with firearms during group protests and peaceful demonstrations by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior are not sufficiently motivated. The bill does not define whether the person injured by a firearm should have suffered specific bodily harm In addition, it is not clear how the Law will be applied in case the damage is caused due to exceptional faults of the victim. Similarly, the circle of persons who should be entitled to one-off compensation on the basis of the provision of art. 2 and an addition to the pension under art. 9 of the Law. The proposal, contained in the Final provision of the bill, the benefits or the supplement to pensions to be paid to the heirs of the victims, is contrary to the principles of state social security and the legislation in force. The bill does not comply with the Public Finance Act, there are no financial estimates of the funds needed to implement the proposed new provisions, and the preliminary impact assessment does not take into account that these changes lead to the need for additional funds to pay one-off benefits and supplements to the pensions of the persons in the new category. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Krasimir Velchev, Todor Baychev, Vasil Antonov, Hayri Sadakov, Jayhan Ibryamov and Nikolay Tishev. Opinions were expressed in favour of the opinions expressed on the draft by the representatives of the ministries. The majority of committee members said they did not support the Bill and that we do not need to constantly return to the past and old practices that received a negative public assessment. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights with 2 votes....................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u56	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. The next report belongs to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u57	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, No 754-01-41, submitted by Mustafa Sali Karadayi and a group of MPs on 7 July 2017. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 19 July 2017 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons with importers Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Mrs. Kalina Petkova, Director of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Conditions of Labour at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. With this bill, importers propose that another category of persons should be added to the current round of persons within the scope of the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. These are the people who suffered gunshot wounds in peaceful protests against repressive government policies of the communist regime. They exercised their fundamental right to peaceful protest in defence of their legitimate rights and interests. This right was severely violated by the use of illegal force, and the victims had no opportunity to obtain judicial or other protection. They have suffered considerable damage of moral and material nature, as well as physical and mental suffering. These are Bulgarian citizens, who have not been sentenced, have not been deprived of liberty, have not been interned. The importers believe that the law in force has unjustly missed this small group, which has no legal basis to establish the political repression they have committed and, as a consequence, to grant them compensation. At the same time, importers are convinced that this category of persons corresponds fully to the philosophy of the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. The Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Interior. The opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy stresses that the circle of persons referred to in the Law is too general. In addition, the Ministry considers that it goes beyond the subject of the current law, namely to rehabilitate persons who are repressed specifically because of their origin, political beliefs or religious beliefs. Equally generally, the circle of persons who should be entitled to one-off compensation and to benefits is outlined. It is also recommended that the opinion of the Ministry of Finance be taken into account because of the financial justification missing from the Bill. The opinion of the Ministry of Finance concerns that the introduction of a new category of repressed persons, namely those injured by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior in connection with peaceful protests and demonstrations is not sufficiently motivated. On the other hand, according to the Ministry, the very proof of the repression suffered is quite difficult, both in terms of documentation and in view of the examination of the facts and circumstances relating to the extent to which the injured person as a result of the firearm by the Ministry of Interior did not contribute to the damage. This ambiguity will lead to problems in law enforcement with this additional category of persons. In addition, attention shall be paid to the final provision providing that the benefit or supplement to the pension is due not only to the injured persons but also to their successors. The Ministry of Finance considers that no policy on compensation of heirs and the granting of a subjective right to the heirs to receive an supplement to the pension has been carried out so far by the Act in force, if the proposal is supported, would be contrary to the legal principles in force so far. For the reasons set out and in view of the current economic situation and budgetary constraints, the Ministry of Finance at this stage cannot support the Bill. Representatives of the Ministry of Interior have made comments similar to those of the other ministries. In addition, they also find that the circumstances under which repression has been carried out are difficult to prove. The reasons of the Bill do not make it clear how individuals will prove how the injury was obtained, at what time it was received, whether it was caused by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and so on. In this direction there is concern as to whether the new norm can be applied in practice, as in all other categories of persons in art. 1 of the Law, these facts are known, easily verifiable and verifiable. Statements on the bill made the MPs Pavel Shopov and Hassan Ademov. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 3 votes..... 7 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. He proposes to the National Assembly not to support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons with Importers Mustafa Karadayi and a group of Members of the National Assembly in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u58	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Who's going to brief us on the motives of the bill? Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Motives to the Bill amending the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons aims to complement the categories of persons considered politically and civilly rehabilitated according to art. 1, t. 7, but do not fall within the scope of Article 7. 2 of the Law itself. The category of persons that will be added under the bill are people who have suffered gunshot wounds in peaceful protests against repressive government policies of the communist regime. The current Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons does not explicitly include this category of persons. Their rehabilitation is not possible on the basis of the grounds existing in the Law at present, as there has been neither a penal sentence, nor have they been deprived of liberty or interned. Therefore, at present, the legislation does not allow the political repression to be established and compensation granted against them. At the same time, there is no doubt that this category of persons meets the general meaning and objectives of the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. The main purpose of this Law is to make a formal recognition of the fact of repression by the Communist regime carried out on political or other ideological grounds. This repression is incompatible with the values and principles of a free democratic society. The categories of victims whose inclusion is proposed have exercised their fundamental right to peaceful protest in defence of their legitimate rights and interests. This right was severely violated by the communist state with the use of illegal force, and the victims had no opportunity to obtain protection under judicial or any other order. Specific facts about such incidents can be pointed out from the distant 1947 year against the collectivization of agriculture, from the distant 1972, 1974 and 1985 against the forced change of personal names. These are incompatible with democracy examples of a rude and severe violation of fundamental human rights. In many such incidents, the fact of gun spread by the forces of the Ministry of Interior at peaceful rallies was documented, where protesters were shot. As an indicative example, the case can be taken from March 13, 1972 in the village of Barutin, Smolyan region. In scattering the gathered at protest against changing the names of villagers, law enforcement officers use weapons and hurt people. The proposed wording of the Bill is not limited to these incidents only, in so far as there are examples of such dispersal of rallies by force from the 1950s. The victims could also seek rehabilitation under this Law. Reconciliation with regard to our recent past is a key element in the integrity of the nation, but this goal cannot be achieved through silence and forgetting, but through sharing, discussions and, above all, through political and civic rehabilitation of repressed individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. I'm opening the debate. Statements? Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u61	Madam President, honourable Members! The examples that were given earlier in the reasons for the bill, for places where firearms and firearms were used, are not the ones leading importers. I'm going to share with you what I know about the intimate thought of where this DSS's intention comes from. The year is 1972 "Kornitsa." There has been a rumour that something is going on. The older ones of us remember and the Turkish flag has been lifted over the municipality. [[Radio in DPS.]] That's how we remember it. Accordingly, the power then takes measures, surrounds the village, there is shooting. Some two years ago, the former leader of the DPS, who was from the DPS, was quite rightly and rightly addressed in the political history of Bulgaria, was there. A woman told him: "I was wounded in the hand. " She has been objectified in discussions today's Bill. You will all say "Nerde Stambul, Nerde Yambol, Nerde Kornitsa, Nerde some events taking place here, there, in the collectivization after 9 September, later or earlier. This whole mess actually gives birth to the great legislative idea to bring the bill in this way. All funds for racketeering of Bulgarian society are exhausted! It was not various declarations in this National Assembly for genocide, for repression, for the so-called "renaissance process" and more, and more bills in which countless active fighters with eternal rights received pensions, fictional martyrs of freedoms and human rights were introduced! This whole concept is based on the whole DPS, which has been raging for so many years on the snow of Mother Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines from DPS. Applause from OP.]] Where do they find other occasions and other reasons to remind themselves? Again and again to measure the temperature of the Bulgarian people, to assess the tolerance of the Bulgarian society to what extent, what can they afford. It's done and this sample is done to see how we react. See how far they can go, how far they're due, and how much they can go. Can you imagine the intrigue that it is purely legal, the evidence of such incidents, incidents, injuries to individuals?! And what's more, imagine, active fighters, but not only are they entitled, but also their heirs! Except they don't say their successors to which knee, to which generation they can have rights and receive benefits to pay them. Practically, this figure, which will claim rights, is irrelevant here, talking about how it will affect the budget. Such ones will hardly be found or become practically possible all of this. It's about the political act! And the political act is again in this Chamber of the National Assembly in 2017 again for us Bulgarians to get a sense of guilt, to make us pour ashes on our heads and justify what happened in 1972, what happened 1980, 1985!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u62	Read the bill!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u63	To feel guilty for all that was! Well, that's the point! Once again the goal is the DPS to prove to its electorate that it is fighting on the political stage that it protects the rights, that it reminds itself and that it manages to fit in, to blackmail, to recite the Bulgarian society! Therefore, colleagues from all Bulgarian parties, I appeal to you to show firmness and say: "No! [[(Reply from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmedov: "Higher! ") Higher!]] The main problem for us Bulgarians 140 years after the Liberation of Bulgaria is still to overcome the consequences of Turkish slavery! We haven't gotten over them in 140 years! And you see the relapses! That's a very big topic! We at Ataka will outline what consequences of Turkish slavery we have not overcome. One of the consequences is that in Bulgaria there is a foreign, Turkish fifth column in the face of DPS! It's a serious consequence! You are all aware of what the dimensions of the presence here are, both from BSP and GERB. All Bulgarian parties who were in the National Assembly may sometimes be a little late, but still have realized what DPS means in Bulgarian political life, what its role is! That this is one of the consequences of five centuries of Turkish slavery. Therefore, colleagues of the Bulgarian parties, do not hesitate, do not vote with the impersonal abstention on this issue! Let's give them a stand-up and vote with one definitely against! Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? We don't have any lines. Come in, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u65	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to take account of proposals from our parliamentary group Draft and, in particular, of the impact assessment that the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior and the Social Ministry have given. Of course, I will not go into the xenophobic tone of the pre-talking, nor will my beard and my hands be shuddered when I talk about the suffering of people, because the repression of the totalitarian regime affected not only the Bulgarian Turks. I have seen him in a previous capacity to speak with the same pathos against this communist regime, which has repressed both ethnic Bulgarians and all other ethnicities. If our archin is the same because the speaker turned to all Bulgarians...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u66	That's not a line!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u67	It's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u68	Don't interrupt me! I've endured with enough wisdom in my pre-talking.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u69	Mr. Tsonev, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u70	Please listen carefully because my group and I have listened carefully to your representative. In any case, if we measure with the same measure, we must treat the repression of the totalitarian regime in the same way regardless of who they are committed to. If we read very carefully, we will see that this is about the repression of the totalitarian regime, which has been done in a certain way to certain groups of people. I don't know why this pathos and this hatred was needed, when it comes to giving justice to a group of people who have suffered both moral and physical damage, some of them carry it to this day. For this reason, I think that we should treat the fellow Members of the other parliamentary groups with a loving - kindness to those affected by the totalitarian regime, and not only by it. Because, honourable colleague Shopov, I know that you are a true Christian, our religion teaches us not to do to others what we do not want them to do to us. I'm just reminding you of this. I can remind you of other things in our faith. I was very impressed by the motives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I turn to those who have drawn up the opinion, I am ashamed of them: how is it possible to write in the reasons that the Ministry believes that the very proof of the repression suffered is quite difficult both in terms of documentation and in view of the export of the facts and circumstances related to how much the injured person as a result of firearms from the authorities of the Ministry of Interior has not contributed to the cause of the injury? Colleagues, that's great cynicism. Can you imagine: the person contributed someone to shoot at him?! We know what the regime was then against certain groups of people, not only ethnic groups................. against many Bulgarian citizens...................................................................... It doesn't mean a specific case here. There are described actions carried out by the authorities against others. If you had read the Bill carefully, you would have seen that there could be protesters against the regime in 1989, let's say, in the garden of Christal. Why didn't you read it and see that it was there? Or don't you want to think that way? The next circumstance of the Ministry of Finance, which considers that "Because of the considerations outlined and in view of the current economic situation and budgetary constraints, the Ministry of Finance at this stage cannot support the draft. Can you imagine? It's about a handful of people. Due to the economic situation of the country, we cannot afford it because of budgetary constraints either! If I had really been malicious here, I would have shown you exactly what the budgetary constraints are at this time or at the last eight years, what exactly budget constraints there are, what spending is involved and what lines! But I am not malicious, I just want to pay attention to the Ministry of Finance that when such opinions are written, the prestige of the institution should not be undermined in this way. Also, the Ministry of Interior would have been very difficult to prove the repression. Colleagues, which repression will be difficult to prove? This repression has been proven by history, people are alive, half of whom it is used against are crippled! Isn't it a shame for us to talk like this in 2017? I ask that we treat these people with humanity and understanding and support the bill, not prejudice. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u71	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Any lines to Mr. Tsonev's statement? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Sadakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill we are currently looking at has remained incomplete in this part, which concerns today's Bill. It's probably the last group that didn't get into this bill. Here the most important part and the main part is to look on the moral side of this issue. Let's abstract and isolate from the financial statements given to the Finance Ministry and others, because that's exactly what this is all about. We have to realise that these people, at that moment, stood for the rights that are at the heart of democracy today, in the times in which we live. They fought not their own personal battle, but fought a battle very early in time, before democracy, on the very main points of democracy. And we should, and perhaps that is the most important thing today, to be able to isolate ourselves from these extreme statements. Let us abstain from our views, purely political, and look at the issue from this very moral point of view, in this moral aspect, in order to make the right decision. These extremes were the reason why these people were hurt. To live the rest of their lives with those scars that were left at the time, and that thing led right to that problem. If we give ourselves to this particular part today, I think we'll make a mistake. So my request is: really abstract everything and make your morally correct decision, which will be the best for today. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Sadakov. - What's the line? I can't see. For a statement? Mr. Ibryamov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u74	Madam President, colleagues! I take part in the bill as a Bulgarian citizen, born, raised in mother Bulgaria, and experienced not so called the revival process, but experienced the revival process in our country. I will not enter into intimate relations, but I will talk primarily about human rights, because that is what the law is about. Colleagues, rights are not some kind of characteristic that we have naturally, but an attitude that is based on mutual recognition. Rights must be equal partners before the law, honourable Members! For people and their loved ones, this act of violence that they have experienced is a traumatic event that causes a wound to the everyday course of history, I would say, even to the life story of these victims. A traumatic event is not marked as such just by the memory of what happened. It opens up a deep wound that it leaves, because of our horror not in front of the future itself, but not just in front of the past. Human rights must be defended more than ever. We need human rights, honourable colleagues. We need them, and they need us, because there is always a deficit, a lack, a shortage, a failure. Human rights are never enough. Justice never ends with one law. For me, the problem lies in our critical attitude to the story that must not be lost. The loss itself leads and opens the way to political barbarism. Political barbarism itself is proof, I would say, of the failure of human enlightenment, and that in turn leads to intellectual loss. Now that's very dangerous. And the human enlightenment itself, honourable Members, is proof of democracy in a country. Therefore, like my colleague Yordan Tsonev urged the Bulgarian system parties to support and show civil maturity and reason to this Law. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. - What's the line? Mr. Petrov, for a line? A statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Leading and Chairmaning. [[Radio.]] The chairman shall also lead the meeting. Is that right? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u77	Madam President!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u78	Isn't he the lead chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u79	Madam President! Never mind, never mind. Your minutes are ticking. Get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u80	I would essentially like to make a replica of the speech that has just been made in a very nice Bulgarian language. I am very pleased to hear the Bulgarian language of this person who spoke before me, the colleague. Very correct, nice...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u81	Coworker Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u82	...content Bulgarian language. However, I would like to say that we should not forget that when we talk about rights and about victims, we go to the Monument of Those Killed by Terrorists at Bunovo Station every year. I'm a representative from Sliven. Sliven has a severely injured woman on the train, in the mother car with children. I don't want to become a lawyer, but we shouldn't forget and allow an out-of-system party, such as the DPS, to talk about system parties. An ethnic party cannot be a systemic party. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u83	Mr. Petrov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u84	You can't! So when we talk about the repressed, we absolutely need to talk about the fact that this DPS party was supporting terrorists...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u85	Mr. Petrov, please...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u86	...and made monuments to terrorists.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u87	Mr. Petrov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u88	This party has built monuments of terrorists in Burgas region.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u89	...said to be a line to Mr. Ibryamov! Please, Mr. Petrov! I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u90	So I ask you very much that we speak the truth and only the truth. Twice a terrorist monument has been knocked down in Topchiysko.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u91	Your time is up, Mr. Petrov. Any other lines? Here you are, for your coat, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u92	Madam President, colleagues. That's why I was talking about the intellectual failure of enlightenment. If the colleague had come into the essence of the Bill and its united......the.....the....the.....the... will understand that it is all Bulgarian citizens who have suffered in rallying in defence of their rights. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u93	Please, from the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u94	Yeah, I'm not ashamed to be in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u95	Please, no orders from the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u96	This is why I will again call on the system parties in the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria to support the bill submitted by Mr. Karadayi and a group of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u97	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. For speeches? Mr. Velchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u98	Madam President, honourable Members! I listened carefully to my colleagues who spoke earlier, and I did not intend to take attitude, but several times it was mentioned about human rights. I want my colleagues from GERB to understand why GERB's position is not to accept this Law. Firstly, and in the Commission, I said it: these people, yes, they have sought their rights and have mainly protested against the practices of the totalitarian regime. Now I notice that all these years after totalitarianism, we've been trying to return their practices. Let's put them right on the back of the people who have protested against these practices. What do I mean? Society has not forgotten the active fighters, their children, the privileges and pensions they received. Now we what? We return these practices right through the people who have protested against these practices. I don't think that's right or moral. Yeah, a handful of people say coworkers here. All right, colleagues, we all know that the DPS party has been created precisely and thanks to these protests and those people who have suffered. Well your subsidies are high enough to spend money on these few people and help them as we help our people. [[Applause from GERB, lines.]] Why? Must be the poor party, or don't you have enough money? Another good thing, we're talking here almost squealing and hardening your electorate again. It's still a long way from an election. You hope soon there will be, but many will have to wait, but also people have not forgotten the kisses of the Orlov Bridge. [[Applause from GERB.]] Your leaders kissed and forgiven everything and now the Bulgarian people to pay for that something was unspoken between you. I disagree. What is the meaning of the human rights violations that I've come to talk about? Human rights and perhaps it is right for people to receive something on their pensions if human rights have been violated in the sense that they have not been given the opportunity to work, they have not been given the opportunity to exercise their professions or to understand and your electorate, for example, people with higher education, have been sent to dig, as they were once sent to Belene and to camps. Such people were not there. You are talking about others. There was a protest, there was an accident, I don't know exactly what, but after that, I'm pretty sure from a handful of people...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u99	What is it about to give an evaluation?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u100	...listen to me, sir! Sir, I don't give an assessment. I'm saying it's always been like this when you give a group of people rights, then other negatives appear, as well as employment pensions. It has proven that there are 900,000 disabled people in Bulgaria. Tomorrow, what's the guarantee that there won't be thousands of people who have suffered one way or another? I repeat, when it comes to human rights violations, in the sense that they have not been given the opportunity to work out their pensions, so they are given supplements to pensions. Because of your participation in such rallies, I don't think they should receive such rallies as, you say, crippled people. [[Noise and lines.]] I see the outrage, however, I am equally resentful when reading in the text and their beneficiaries. How about this? Didn't they have the opportunity to work, too, to receive pensions because they're heirlooms to active fighters? That's why we're against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u101	[[Applause from GERB.]] Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. - What's the line? Dr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u102	Dear Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u103	You have one minute of the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u104	...Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Velchev, I was hoping that at least you have read the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. I sincerely hoped that you would have done so because this Law was adopted in 1991. In its creation there were prominent Bulgarian Democrats as the brothers of Nevrokopski, who I have never heard of being from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The Law applies to the period 9 September 1944. "November 10, 1989, you claim that this Law applies only to the people of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, is absolute cynicism. Before 1989, there was no Movement for Rights and Freedoms. There was an illegal organization. What members of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are we talking about before 1989? Who told you that this Law applies only to the people of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? It refers to absolutely all Bulgarian citizens who have suffered from the repressive regime. If we don't make that difference, that means we're talking about things we don't know or we want to manipulate. We argue that this Law applies to all Bulgarian citizens who have suffered from the repressive regime. I'm asking you to make that difference.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u105	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Ebatine.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u106	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Velchev! From your arguments, I understand that the DPS is taking care of what a country has done to a community. From your arguments what do I understand that the problem of the community is actually outside the state!? So you're ruling out this community's right to restore its justice to itself by the state? So you're excluding this community from the state? I don't accept that! Colleagues, what I am asking you as an appeal: take this type of question seriously! These issues do not concern only and exclusively the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. These questions concern all statehood! This issue also concerns national security! Because when such a type of policy is made in the National Assembly, in a similar way, you put a certain part of society at risk to feel excluded from the care of the state. That's what you're doing right now! [[Noise and lines.]] No, I'm not threatening. It's the truth! What's next for all of this? There's a real thing next. There are other dangers, colleagues, that you really do not realize! The DPS is part of the country's national security. We're trying to show it to you, prove it to you and understand it. You underestimate this option, underestimate the DPS, underestimate the community for which we make efforts to feel like a part, really as a real part of the nation! And you're shutting us out. Please don't do this to us! We don't deserve it. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Any other lines? I won't. A hole, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u108	Madam President, honourable Members! About the fact that the Law is from 1991. That's great! Great! Twenty-six years! You've been in power several times. Even just four years ago, you were also in power, along with the party you say was the state, because the next colleague said it was one country that caused so much trouble to part of the population. I do not think that the state has caused it, and I am opposed to saying that this thing.. that Bulgaria has caused precisely these things to one part of the people, on the one hand. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] On the other hand, you have also confirmed what colleagues are saying, unfortunately. Exactly what I said that thanks to these people and these events was founded after this DPS, not that the DPS was founded before 1990. We know how the DPS is based. We remember very well! Colleagues, I repeat, why 26 years after that do you remember?! Why? Why didn't you do it just four years ago, or didn't you accept this law? You import it every year! Why are you bringing it in every year to be noticed by all these people who are waiting for you to do something for them? Only they're not waiting to receive any small increases in their pensions. They waited for you to be involved in the economic rise of this country, and for the people not to be poor. [[Noise and lines.]] Not when someone comes after you, after your management, to wonder how to fix the state and where to fill the budget. I'm sure you can't say that it wasn't your fault that the budget revenue was insufficient, that a lot of that money was leaking through channels that I don't know if you're still using. I don't know! You must remove hypocrisy from your mask. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. I see that there are more speeches, colleagues Mr. Veselinov, you, colleague... I'll give you 30 minutes off and then we'll continue the debate. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u110	We are continuing today's session. There's a declaration from a parliamentary group. Mr. Siddy, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u111	Madam President, honourable Members! Today the Jews around the world mark the coming of the New 5778 C.E. On their own behalf and on behalf of the United Patriarchs, I congratulate the Jewish community in Bulgaria with their bright holiday! The Jews in Bulgaria are an example of successful integration, an example which all ethnic communities in our country should follow. The Bulgarian Jews died side by side with their Bulgarian brothers on the battlefields in defence of the country and the tolerant Bulgarian people responded with the same, creating the miracle of salvation. In 1943, our people carried out a high humane act that saved 60 thousand Bulgarian Jews from certain death, who would be sent to the camps only for their origins. Today, the enemies of Bulgaria, actively supported by the homeless born here, are trying to minimize this fact and to pin shameful accusations on the Bulgarians, erasing the memory of salvation, stressing only the fallen Jews of Macedonia and Thrace. The beginning of each new year is equalization time. For the Jews in the days between Rosh and Shana and Yom Kippur in heaven opens a book in which the Lord records the works of every man and he has the opportunity to change and correct his mistakes. That is why we must learn from our mistakes today and do so so that we remember our past and live together in the future. Let the New 5778 be peaceful and happy! Shana that! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. We continue with the statements on the previous bill. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u113	Madam President, honourable Members! When I first came to know the contents of this bill, I thought of a joke from late totalitarianism that asked the question: "Whose are the largest forests in the world?" The answer is: The Bulgarians, because 40 years after 9 September, active fighters continue to emerge. The Communist Party then continued to produce active fighters decades after any real anti-fascist resistances, as far as fascism is concerned in Bulgaria. Today, the DPS continues to try to produce perhaps not active fighters, but tensions that have political benefits. However, they are even more ambitious than their communist predecessors, proving their totalitarian essence as a party. There was no pension for the descendant of an active wrestler, but there were other privileges. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] I propose to them in their next attempts to fuel tensions and accordingly exploit the subject of their own suffering to predict, for example, such figures as admission to a higher school of such people, travel free of charge under BDZ and a number of other such things that active wrestlers had. I suppose we will also reject them, but they will have fulfilled their political task of making their statements from here and presenting themselves to their voters that, behold, they continue to fight for their rights, which some malicious predator wishes to take away from them. If it were to be commented on the actual victims who had to be compensated, there might have been a correction and reference to the Law on damages caused by the State. We have another amendment here, with another idea, because otherwise, we have a lawsuit, the victim really has to prove the damage that has been done to him. The idea here is to have a media bomb to talk about and write about. I would also like to ask the question that my colleague asked: how many generations? Question two: well, if the victim during such a rally attacked with an axe officer of the Ministry of Interior and is therefore injured, is he part of the victims and victims? What if whoever got hurt was an employee of foreign intelligence, like we had cases, was he part of the victims? Such theoretical questions I would like to ask, I hope the importers will answer. I believe that the objective of the DPS colleagues has been met, only I would like to remind them that after 30 years of transition, from which they broadcast two governments, gave a mandate for two governments, were twice in coalition governments and were quite often a majority supporter, to put this issue again is an already exhausted subject, an expression of infinite hypocrisy, which is clearly characteristic of their party. We of the United Patriarchs will reject this bill against this Law. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? Mr. Tsonev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Veselinov! Since you are the second Member of the National Assembly who raises the issue of our governance, the participation of the DPS in the government and why the issue is not resolved then, we answer simply and clearly: in each of our participation in the government and in every edition of the National Assembly we have raised this issue. It's just that the coalition partners we've been involved with think like you do, no difference at all! And that is why I turn to the whole room, and to the Christians in the Chamber, that we should look at these questions... You used a term for their suffering. There's no suffering from them! There is no suffering for a Christian! All suffering is his own, his own! Foreign suffering is also my suffering! That's how we should look at it. This is not about the production of active fighters and so on. There's a second reading! At second reading, this can be rejected by the heirs. I also share this view that these people with physical and moral disabilities should be granted what is due to them by the state as a moral act and as a material act. Nothing prevents the Law from being passed and ironing these things at second reading. This cannot be a reason to reject the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Any other lines? I can't see. For the back, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u117	Mr. Tsonev, word opens! If there is no one else's suffering, how did you vote for Armenian genocide? Why didn't you support the Armenian genocide in the National Assembly Declaration? [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] With no foreign suffering, will you support our Declaration of recognition of genocide against the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire? I hope so! I hope that's a preliminary answer. Why did I talk about your.. not to divide, as those who have submitted to the DPS, the society according to ours and yours, but because your representative has talked about community rights several times and thus demasculated the entire manifestation of your party:.... Our community rights, we are the guarantor of national security, if we are not here, do you know what will happen to national security?..................................... It was the lightmotive of one of your speakers, and I think he's debasing the whole operation. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. [[Noise and lines. Talks are being held away from the microphones.]] Mr. Tsonev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u119	Thank you, Madam President. To young BSP colleagues, I know very well the Rules and I know what procedure to want. It's about the fact that the colleague in his jacket went beyond the subject of the line with a question to me that doesn't concern the subject. I'm entitled to a personal explanation, and I'll answer it. Both the suffering of the Armenians and the suffering of all Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire, and not only of them, we must and we have empathy for it. However, when history is politicised in this way, in terms of the subject of Armenian genocide, you know what follows after Armenian genocide, after declarations, internationally and not only in terms of treaties, and in terms of claims, and in terms of worsening relations between states and so on. We have repeatedly said, our representatives, here, from this tribune, that what has happened, and we have recognised it as suffering, as suffering from one regime to another and so on, from one empire to another, but when the act is political and when history is made in this way, we are against it. We've explained it very clearly and precisely why. I answer that accusation: yes, we sympathize with those peoples who have suffered no matter who they are. And mostly with the Bulgarian because we are Bulgarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u120	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Any other speeches? Mr. Gurnevsky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u121	Thank you, Madam President. I don't have a statement in my pocket, don't worry, guys. It's sacrilege to talk about Armenian genocide. Who wasn't in Armenia and wasn't at the memorial temple near Obelisk, there to see a million-and-a-half written names of the victims. That's the subject we need to stop repeating. Bulgaria has made its moral gesture to the victims of this people. Colleagues from the DPS, there's something bothering us. We do not deny, on the contrary, we have always said about the regime and we are glad that you yourself said about the communist regime what it was like, what sacrifices it has made to both Bulgarians and Turks. I myself, as editor of a newspaper, wrote an essay about that woman who was thrown into the pool with the baby in her hand and shot at her shoulder during the rebirth process. What disturbs me, since I am, however, 26 to 27 years old, although in local politics, is that we are talking here about repression, about victims, but here are the heirs of the repressive. And if we go back on chronology, we'll see: 1992, a depesarian jester from your predecessors from these banks, Yordan Tsonev is a witness, we were in the same party, and the first democratic government went out! Then with your mandate, I'm not talking about you, please listen! Then, with your mandate headed by Mr. Berov, God forgive him, a government was created that laid the foundation of the organized mafia in Bulgaria mainly from among the former State Security and this is described in all books, newspapers, publications and no one on the left and on the right can deny it. Later, you became coalition partners, not you, directly you, but here, in your group I have friends: here, Dzhevdet Chakarov, a worthy doctor from Plovdiv, Dr. Ademov also respect many, and others, there are young people, which is good, but if you remember that you managed the whole time together and were coalition partners with the repressors! It's an inexplicable symbiosis! Let's not forget that in your group two thirds of it at the time were all former members of State Security and State Security agents. So how did they protect the interests of those repressed people who threw them into the ponds? Where was the interest of the DPS? It was the interest of a click! That is why we feel for the Bulgarians we do not trust that you are sincere. It's not you, it's that you've been honest all these 27 years! Mr. Velchev told you about the hug on Eagle Bridge. Well, he was renovated this year. That hug made you cry so much, you were slipping! [[Replications. Awesome.]] All the cars, crossing the Eagle Bridge, slipped, couldn't get through! Repressed and repressed in a brother's kiss! [[(Laughter) Awesome.)]] You ruled together! You didn't solve this problem, now you want to do a party pep talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u122	Mr. Gurnevsky, I'm gonna have to ask you this.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u123	We don't believe you're sincere, so I don't have the strength to remember all this for 27 years to vote on one such proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Gurnevsky. Mr. Svilenski for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u125	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Mr. Gurnevsky, I'm making a line for you since you've come off the subject and you're giving me an excuse to make a line for you. The repairs of the Eagle Bridge and the waves happened not thanks to the rally that was in 2013 but thanks to the poor performance...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u126	On the subject, Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u127	...when your leader was the mayor of Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u128	It has nothing to do with the subject we are debating right now!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u129	And we're going to say that many times. 300,000. lv. Sofians paid twice because of the poor repair of Borisov, so do not give this example.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u130	What is the connection between the subject we are discussing and the repair of the Eagle Bridge? [[Loud noise, lines, calls.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u131	The connection is the rally of BSP and DPS and the waves of the Eagle Bridge. This is the connection Mr. Gurnevski said about.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u132	Let's finish the procedure. Any other lines? I don't see any other lines. A hole, Mr. Gurnevsky, please. I hope on the subject and on the line. I don't know how you're gonna get into this with that line, though.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u133	On the subject, the colleague is confused.. not that the presence of the people has made waves of asphalt. The sweet kisses that contributed to the sweet tears that licked this asphalt, and today you want to wipe it off. How do I do that?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u134	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u135	Madam President, honourable Members! I hate to make a line in the way of conduct, but you've allowed your coworkers so far away from the subject that we didn't even know what it was about. If a person enters the Chamber at this time, he will think that we are actually looking at some bill for condemning the coalition governments of Bulgaria or the relations between parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u136	Or the renovations on the boulevards.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u137	Or the repairs to Eagle Bridge and the boulevards. I am making you this note because this type of statement not only distracts us from the subject, but also gives us the wrong impression in those who listen to us and affect the reputation of the institution in which we work and which we represent. Otherwise it is not difficult to answer Mr. Gurnevsky who brought down the government of Philip Dimitrov because I know very well: one part of the SDS downloaded another part of the SDS, Mr. Gurnevsky!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u138	Better to me the remark, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u139	And it's not the depesarian jester, to tell you the truth! And you, Mr. Gurnevsky, as a man who has really always had an attitude against the totalitarian regime, I expect you to look with this eye of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u140	The procedure is for me, Mr. Tsonev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u141	To you!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u142	Well, yeah! You're doing procedure in the way you're doing it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u143	I have told you why I am doing this procedure to you because you have allowed Mr. Gurnevski to talk not about whether he will support the Bill as a person who has had a whole political career negative attitude towards the totalitarian regime, and this bill affects the victims of the totalitarian regime or those who have been repressed. And he, instead of saying that, you let him say otherwise. We expect Mr. Gurnevski, as a prominent democrat and fighter against totalitarianism, to support this bill, even though it was proposed by the DPS. We're either Democrats or we're not, Mr. Gurnevsky! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. I accept the remark. Other speeches. I don't see any other speeches. We vote, fellow Members. I put to the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. They voted 154 MPs: 23, Against 99, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE PRACTICAL CODEX, sequel. The reports are read. We are continuing to debate on the subject. Statements, coworkers? I don't see any speeches. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. They voted 143 MPs: 102, against 2, abstention 39. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next bill: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE PARTICULAR SECURITY WORK. Internal Security and Public Order Committee report here you are, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u145	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the hall of Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tsipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u146	Access mode, please. Vote 108 MPs: 103, against 3, abstention 2. Please, the Quaestors, invite Mr. Tzipov to the Chamber. I didn't announce the offer was accepted. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u147	♪ I can't believe on a private security bill, No 702-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2017. At its regular meeting held on 13 September 2017, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Private Security Act, No 702-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2017. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Interior Krassimir Tzipov; Senior Commissioner Todor Grebenarov The meeting was attended by representatives of the branch organizations from the private security business. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Krasimir Tsipov. In his exhibition he noted that the main objective of the Bill is to meet public expectations for the security of citizens.. the preservation of their lives, health and property. The bill was drawn up following an in-depth analysis of public relations that arose in the implementation of private security activities and the experience of the Member States of the European Union in this area. The existing problems have also been reported, for which proper resolution has been taken into account and the opinions of representative organisations in the private security sector after in-depth joint discussions. For the 13-year period of the first regulation of administrative regulation and administrative control of this type of commercial activity by the Private Security Act, the same was imposed as a socially significant and rapidly evolving activity which should be regulated and controlled on the basis of precise and clearly regulated legal provisions. The changed economic reality related to the full membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union as well as the change of the social and socio-economic development of our society are the main motives for the development of this Private Security Act. The draft law provides for a new kind of separation of private security activities, which is required by the dynamics in the development of economic and social relations. The bill provides for the development of a legislative regulation by which, in detail, for each type of activity, minimum requirements for the security and safety of the protected sites, including the necessary technical equipment and/or motor vehicles and personnel possessing the necessary professional qualifications, are to be regulated. The expectations are to improve the professional capacity of the entities and to increase the quality of the security service they offer. The Law introduces a requirement for the entity to belong to a professional association of individuals engaged in private security activities. This requirement enables self-regulation of private security entities through the participation of representative sector organisations in the regulatory process and increasing their representativeness in the Advisory Council for Cooperation on Private Security Activities, which is maintained in this Draft. The operation of the licences already issued shall be maintained. The single automated central register of licenses and registrations for the activities under the law is also maintained with a view to carrying out ongoing control, which, as so far, has been entrusted to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. The new Law focuses on legality and professionalism in the implementation of private security activities. Protection of the privacy, health and property of citizens are among the guiding principles in the work of the private security sector. People's representatives Krasimir Yankov, Manoil Manev, Dimitar Stoyanov and Tsvetan Tsvetanov took part in the debates. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 11 votes for the Security Act, No 702-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2017, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft Law on Private Security Activity Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. We're moving on to speeches. Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u149	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thus, the submitted Bill on Private Security is part of the propaganda of the government of Boyko Borisov for legislative activity, which in fact seals the agenda of society. There is no difference between the philosophy of the current Law and the proposed new Law on Private Security. However, there are additional texts in the Law that are, to put it mildly, disturbing, and they are contrary to the freedom of association, as regarding the issue of a private security licence, there is a provision by which the applicant for a licence must have applied for membership in a branch organisation and within three months after the licence is issued that he is to certify that he is a member. A little later in the texts of the Law there is also a restriction on representativeness of branch organizations that represent at least 15% of companies with a license issued. In other words, the philosophy of the Law is the same as the one in force so far, but there are restrictions that raise doubts about the wishes for redistribution of the private security market. There is no way to support the imported Private Security Act, provided that with several regulations, three regulations that the Minister of Interior will issue will actually regulate the way the entire sector should operate. This is also related to the minimum security and safety requirements, Regulation on the order in which sole traders and legal persons certify that they comply with the requirements of this Law in order to issue licences. In general, the proposed legislation will create difficulties for the sector in terms of regulating the interaction between private security activities, private security companies and the Ministry of Interior. Again, interaction, because the texts of the Law are otherwise written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines to Mr. Iankov's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I will give the floor to Mr. Ahmedov because he is from another parliamentary group, then Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u151	Madam President, honourable Members! From 2004 to this day, the guards and their activities are going away in the Private Security Act, whose application was linked to a number of issues that were not covered by the Law or, although settled, their arrangements were extremely unsatisfactory. The philosophy of the Law is morally outdated. It is based on the experience of state authorities from the 1990s, and this experience implies the adoption of this really restrictive from an economic and economic point of view Law. Probably for this reason these 13 years, since it was in force, the Law has been repaired more than 10 times. In the reasons of the Private Security Act, it is found that private security activities occupy a large part of the public service market, with not a small part of the Bulgarian population engaged in this area. It is established that in Bulgaria a total of 2867 companies licensed to perform a private security service are registered in Bulgaria. That is, this is a socially significant activity that needs adequate and clear regulation. I believe that this has been largely achieved in the new Law. According to good proposals for regulations, the following points were mentioned. First of all, there is a new kind of distribution of private security activity by adding new types of security, such as security for signal-security activities, security for drinking and entertainment establishments, discotheques, gaming and computer halls, security for urbanized territories and security for the transport of valuable shipments and cargo. Secondly, I would point out the mandatory requirement for security companies to be members of a professional association of individuals engaged in private security activities, as well as the requirement that individuals from the security staff of the sole trader or legal entity be officials. Last but not least, the envisaged extended administrative-criminal liability that would increase the effectiveness of the control of individuals working in the field of private security. We of the DPS believe that with this Law of Amendment and the regulations coming from it, there will be a new redistribution of the market of security licenses, and this will create tension in the industry. The reading of the Bill does not give us hopes that professionalism and legality will be the basis of this important sector in public life, which is why the same bill, according to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, should not be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u152	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. Replies to Mr. Ahmedov's statement? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u153	Madam President, honourable Members! As of course, the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is not going to support this bill. The reasons are as follows. First of all, the bill contradicts the Constitution. 44, para. 1 of the Constitution provides that citizens are free to associate. This right of free association at one point under art. 25, para. 1, t. 2 of the Bill becomes an obligation. What do I mean? This was also pointed out by Mr. Krasimir Yankov. When applying for a licence, according to art. 17, para. 2, p. 7 In addition to the necessary documents, the applicant must also provide evidence that he has submitted documents for membership in the relevant non-governmental organisation, a non-profit association created by security guards. The next member I quoted you provides that if this candidate has not become a member of such an organisation within three months of the licence being issued, or if he does not renew membership in another organisation within two months of his exclusion, his licence shall be revoked. At some point, membership of these organizations is a form of racketeering over security companies, which we cannot agree with. Next, security guards are given the opportunity to carry out detention. Perhaps this is correct when it is established that a certain person is committing a crime. But in order to carry out detention, many other issues must also be resolved. What do I mean? There must be a room that is adequately equipped to hold the person detained until the police authorities arrive. If this person moves by car, the vehicle concerned shall also be equipped. Furthermore, the Law does not provide for any other issues that are now being used to circumvent this Law. For example, very often when security guards do not meet the requirements of the Law, they are appointed as porters. Next, it is common knowledge that one person. Owner of a security company, or through connected persons takes the license in the name of several security companies, and when one security company withdraws the license, the same person automatically activates its second license. For this reason, and at the same time, as stated, the fact that we have reason to doubt that it is about the redistribution of the security market, the BSP for Bulgaria is not going to support the current draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. Any lines to the statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u155	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Stoyanov, I was under the impression that this association would be a filter or perhaps some regulator in this activity. I want you to answer me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u156	Any other lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u157	As stated in the Law, my internal belief indicates that these associations will be an exact filter. At the same time, it is clear to everyone that they are one opportunity for racketeering, because in any association can be placed membership imports, which must be paid monthly by each company. And this membership import can be significant. At the same time, associations may participate in market redistribution. Except for a certain firm from the association, they can take her business. I think this part of the project is not well thought out.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. Mr. Velkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u159	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would like to warm you up a bit to the next debate next week about the state of national security. More questions to the importers, but the motivation we heard from my colleague Nunev was about the high public expectations of the security activities for the security of citizens and the increase of the security service. I would like to ask the importers, if they can answer: what helps change to those unresolved issues in the current Law on: First, the protection of life, the dignity of private physical guards, who often, by fulfilling their duties, find themselves in the position of people who committed a crime, especially when they used weapons. Do importers recognize this vast private security army gathered in the respective structures as part of the national security system? And if so, we need to see in the Status Report the concepts of corporate security and corporate security. And the other question: what changes about the status of personal guards, who often, hiding behind the Law, commit crimes? We know what huge problems there are with personal guards who many times experience themselves as people who commit crimes. So if I can hear the answer to these questions, it'll be fine. Otherwise, there is no point in discussing such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Manev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u161	Madam President, colleagues! I am a little surprised by this great activity under the Private Security Act, by the active attitude that colleagues with the knowledge of the Bill show, and make substantial statements on texts from the Law, although we are at first reading, where we should only look at the spirit and principles of the Law. But this is very nice, I congratulate you on this, colleagues, because the Private Security Act, which has now been tabled, has several undisputed qualities. First, all who know or have contact with matter know that such a new Law in 2017 is necessary. Mr. Velkov, I apologize for addressing you personally, but I was impressed by your serious attitude to the Law. I'll tell you my opinion why this Law now? Because the entire security environment was changed when the previous Law was created. And it is necessary that all this complex matter related to not a few people employed in this work or in this business be regulated. As regards detailed remarks, reactions to texts in the Law, colleagues, I think that the work of both the Internal Security and Public Order Committee and the MPs in this House is precisely that... to correct and to work on what we are either not in agreement with, or we have an idea. This Law, by the way, and its work so far, have shown a very real attitude towards our legislative work. Even before entering the Commission, the President of the Internal Security and Public Order Commission met with all the associations of security companies, made round tables, the Law was discussed with those to whom it will concern, continue working groups with them and will continue. Which Member of Parliament of you.. those who know the matter and want to participate in the creation of a proper Law, which we have already said is infinitely necessary at the moment, cannot participate and submit its really substantial proposals to it? Wasn't everyone invited to the round table? Wasn't everyone invited to the discussion? Aren't they invited to the Commission's work now? The spirit of the Law, you say, changes nothing. That's not true, that's not true. The spirit of the Law now, at first reading, says that we will introduce new types of security activity. Does he need one of these? [[Reply of MP Krasimir Yankov.]] Yes, there are those who were not there, but I will not answer you in dialogue, Mr. Iankov. Does he need new ones? There is. Where is the place for them to appear? Not in amendments to the old Law, but in a new law within the meaning of law. I'll respond to all my colleagues who spoke earlier. The very fact that, since the security activity has been regulated, for the first time in the spirit of the Law, and I hope that after its second reading, it will be in an act in the Law that people carrying out security, whether of valuable shipments, whether of property, or of individuals, will be treated as employees within the meaning of the Penal Code. So isn't that a new spirit of the entire Law?! Isn't that a new spirit at all in regulating the relationship with security?! Finally, a short time ago, someone was speaking in another statement about how the Ministry of Interior and private security activities were in conflict. I will not dwell on who destroyed the security and security of the Ministry of Interior. Why? What were the reasons? How did it happen? Was it discussed? I'm just gonna say that what you're saying on this subject is not true. Neither the Ministry of Interior will be a competitor of the security market, because there the changes we have adopted relate to quite other things, and you experts in this area know it, nor are they subjected to any competitive environment to the security companies of the Ministry of Interior. The only thing that happens is that this risky business activity will be under serious control. That's what we're talking about. And I appeal again to my colleagues at BSP. That the Law was introduced by the Council of Ministers, that we are working under this Law all should not be rejected just because we stand by some positive assessment of it. Let's do it, support it at first reading and actively join the Commission. By the way, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee has never had divisional problems because of who imported it and who did not import it. And no one can deny that. Let's do this Law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u163	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Manev! Thank you for recognising the imperfections of the legislation which the Council of Ministers prepares. This is clear and visible. I will only remind you that this Law is being submitted to the National Assembly without any public discussion. Public discussion was used under another law a year ago. And what you explain about the many meetings, round tables, is not correct to those who claim precisely this law. Otherwise, it suits you now that you are in charge of the regulation of this sector to be carried out by regulations issued by the Minister of Interior. But I ask you: tomorrow, if there is another minister, because it will happen, and he has another vision, and he has other regulations, isn't that chaos? If relations in the sector are regulated, this gives security to the participants in this sector. Three thousand licenses, over 100,000 employed in the sector. And this is confirmation of precisely the chaos in the legislation that you are imposing, because with the issuance of regulations this is coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Second line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague, you said that we were looking at the details somehow. Well, the details are the problem. The meaning, the spirit of this Law, is precisely the extension of the powers of private security, of private guards. You yourself said that they would have the status of civil servants. Well, imagine those who beat the black jeeps on the highways that beat the innocent citizens here in Sofia. Are these the new civil servants?! You are taking away the powers of the Ministry of Interior in the under-financing of the Ministry of Interior, and naturally you are expanding part of the security activity, because there, of course, you have greater interests, most likely. This is the meaning and spirit of the Law, which you propose to expand the powers of private security activities at the expense of those who are in the state, in the Ministry of Interior. That's what you're suggesting. And don't speculate that we weren't familiar with the Law and looked into the details. Well these are the details, such are the principle and philosophy of this Law. Don't do this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u166	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Manev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u167	Dear colleague, I'll start back and forth. We just heard us ruin this business, regulate it, collect all the powers, destroy it, and now it turns out that, in fact, at the expense of the Ministry of Interior, we're expanding it. There's no such thing. I won't comment on whether or not you've met the Law. We're not talking about civil servants at all. At least you can replicate me on the subject with those where they used to go on the highways and beat, because here in this room, I think it was in the past Assembly, we introduced the minimum requirements with a lot of work, with a lot of dispute. By the way, note that this Law introduces minimum requirements for carrying out security activities in Bulgaria for the first time. And here is the question that we need to debate between first and second readings: how to introduce them by regulation or by law itself? Mr. Iankov, you were present at the talks in the Commission and Mr. Tsvetanov and I have had these conversations, together with you, in which we are inclined to think on the subject of whether this should not happen within the framework of the Law. But again, the work on this Law can only be done between first and second readings, a good law can come out. All the other general talk under this Law gives us nothing. Mr. Iankov, I don't think any of you should feel like I said you didn't know the Law. On the contrary, I am sure that you know him and I am glad that we can have a real debate between first and second readings, make genuine texts that are in place and satisfying the entire sector, and be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u168	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Colleagues, we're going to vote. I put to the vote a private security bill No 702-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2017. They voted 124 MPs: 91, against 10, abstention 23. With this, we adopted at first reading the Private Security Act. Here you go. Negative vote or procedure? Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u169	Madam President, honourable Members! I asked for this vote and voted against the proposed Private Security Act because there is no new philosophy in the legislation governing relations in the sector. The same is the philosophy of the current Law. I am opposed to limiting the rights recorded in the Constitution. I am opposed because you are creating an opportunity personally for the Minister of the Interior, issuing regulations to the Law, regulating and restructuring the participation of private security companies in the market. It's obviously the desire to master the sector. You're done with a lot of other sectors in the economy, now it's the security business. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u170	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. Mr. Manev, please come in. I was expecting a Mexican wave.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u171	Madam President, colleagues, in the spirit of all that I have just said, I propose an extension of the term of maximum, so that we can really work on this Law and also happen working groups and everything within the amendments to the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u172	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Please vote on the procedure so made for maximum extension of the time limit for proposals between the first and second reading of the respective bill. Vote 120 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue will give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 17 August 2017. Procedure? Come in for a procedure, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u173	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I propose that we allow Clementina Deneva, Director of the Legal and Normal Activities Department to the Ministry of Defence in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u174	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Please vote on the procedure so made for admission. They voted 104 MPs: 91, against 4, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite Mrs. Deneva to the hall. Mr. Popov, please come in for the Defense Committee report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u175	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I will present to you the Defence Committee Report on a Draft for the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Canada, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Greece, the Minister of National Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Department of Defence of the United States of America and the State of the Supreme Chief Command of the United States of NATO forces in Europe (SHAPE) on the establishment, activity, composition, financing, administrative management and maintenance of the State of the Multinational Division of South East (HQ-SE) which is represented by the Council of Ministers on 17 August 2017. At a regular meeting held on 13 September 2017, the Defence Committee examined the Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding for the first vote. There were 20 MPs present. By ordering the President of the National Assembly, I must make it clear that the draft is allocated to the Defence Committee as the lead, to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Foreign Policy. The draft in the Defence Committee was presented on behalf of the importers by the Deputy Minister of Defence Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov. The purpose of the Memorandum is to build a headquarters of the Multinational Division of South East (HQ MND-SE), activated by the North Atlantic Council (NAC) on 1 December 2015 as NATO military structure under the operational command of the Supreme Commander of NATO Union Forces in Europe (SACEUR). A framework country is the host country of Romania. The Memorandum was signed by the Bulgarian side on 23 November 2016 with a statement that for the Bulgarian side it will enter into force from the date of finalization of the necessary internal procedures. The Memorandum is proposed for ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as under it the Republic of Bulgaria assumes a financial obligation for a long period, the value of which by years cannot be calculated with great assurance in advance and fixed, of course, the estimated amount. 20 MPs participated in the subsequent vote. By 20 votes for the defence committee adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of National Defence of Canada, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Department of Defence of the United States of America and the Office of the Supreme Chief Command of the United States of NATO forces in Europe (SHAPE) on the establishment, activity, assembly with personal personnel, the financing, administrative management and maintenance of the State of the Multinational Division of South East (HQ MND-SE), No 702-02-9, and presented by the Council of Ministers, as already mentioned on 17 August 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u176	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. The next report belongs to the Budget and Finance Committee. Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u177	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of National Defence of Canada, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Department of Defence of the United States of America, the Staff of the Supreme Chief Command of the United States of NATO Armed Forces in Europe (SHAPE), concerning the establishment, operation, assembly with personnel, financing, administrative management and maintenance of the Staba of the Multinational Division of South East (HQ MND-SE), No 702-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 August 2017. At a regular meeting held on 19 September 2017, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Canada, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Greece, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Department of Defence of the United States of America, the Office of the Supreme Chief Command of the United Armed Forces of NATO in Europe (SHAPE), on the establishment, activity, composition with personal composition, financing, administrative management and maintenance of the State of the Multinational Division Yugoiztok (HQ-SE), submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 August 2017. The bill was presented by Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence. The subject of this Memorandum is the construction of the headquarters of the Multinational Division of South East with the country of the heart of the country host Romania. The headquarters will provide the Alliance with capabilities for the command and management of national and allied forces up to division level in the southeastern part of the responsibility zone of the supreme commander of NATO forces in Europe, as well as permanent command and management of the headquarters elements for the integration of NATO forces in Bulgaria and Romania. It is tasked with coordinating and supporting multinational training and exercises in certain countries and ensuring permanent security measures, including by making contact with the designated staff elements for the integration of NATO forces in Bulgaria and Romania. Section VII of the Memorandum of Financial Procedures (Financial procedures) sets out the costs of operation and maintenance of the Headquarters, which are borne by the framework state, the costs which are national commitments, and the cases where NATO funding is envisaged. Each Party shall bear the personnel costs assigned by it to the Headquarters and the costs related to that staff and to any national supporting element or additional national representative personnel to the staff referred to in the headquarters structure in Annex B, together with the allowances including the daily expenses payable under national provisions, any equipment or personnel imported into the Headquarters outside the framework country. Communication and information systems arising from national requirements, any special facilities or equipment independent of national needs, including buildings, sports and reconstruction facilities, and any operational costs under those facilities or equipment, where those costs can be determined separately from the framework country and approved by the relevant participant and travel costs for personnel at the beginning and end of his appointment to headquarters, as well as other travel expenses related to annual leave or business commitments undertaken for a national purpose. All costs relating to or related to dependent persons shall be treated in accordance with the relevant national legislation and regulations. More expenditure financed by NATO in the framework country and separately multinational funding is provided for in the Memorandum. No 21-02-266/15.09.2017 of the Minister of Defence with an explanation for the financial estimates of the Memorandum. According to him, the estimated shared costs for the maintenance of the Headquarters at the expense of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 amounted to 19 thousand. euros to be paid from the budget of the Ministry of Defence. Given the fact that the Republic of Bulgaria will undertake a financial obligation for the long term and on the grounds of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, ratification of the Memorandum by Law is required. After the presentation and discussion of the draft was held a vote which ended in the following results: with 10 votes for the resolution of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Greece, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Spain, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Department of Defence of the United States of America and the State of Supreme Armed Forces of NATO in Europe on the establishment, operation with personal composition, the financing, administration and maintenance of the State of the Multi-Yugoist Division.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u178	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Statements? I don't see any speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of National Defence of Canada, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Department of Defence of the United States of America and the Office of the Supreme High Command of the United States of NATO forces in Europe on the establishment, operation, composition of personnel, the financing, administrative management and maintenance of the Staba of the Multinational Division of Jugoiztok, No 702-02-9 and presented by the Council of Ministers on 17 August 2017. Vote 112 MPs: 111 against 1, no abstentions. The bill was passed at first reading. Here you go, General. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u179	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose a procedure based on art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, this Draft Law shall be voted on at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u180	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Please vote on this procedure. 120 MPs voted: 115, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Go on, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u181	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of National Defence of Canada, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Greece, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Department of Defence of the United States of America and the Headquarters of the High Command of the United States of NATO forces in Europe on the establishment, operation, assembly with personnel, financing, administrative management and maintenance of the Office of the Multinational Division of South East. A single member. He established a Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of National Defence of Canada, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Greece, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Department of Defence of the United States of America and the Headquarters of the High Command of the United States of NATO forces in Europe on the establishment, operation, assembly with personnel, financing, administrative management and maintenance of the State of the Multinational Division of South East.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u182	Please vote. Vote 120 MPs: 117 against 1, abstention 2. Ratification accepted. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the time to vote on the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u184	Point 13 "Report on the state of defence and the armed forces. Here's your offer back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u185	Madam President, honourable Members! With regard to the proposed procedural proposal, I am making a reverse proposal to extend the working time of the sitting until the debate on the next item is completed. I think it would be more correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u186	And the vote? Just the debate. I'm voting on Mr. Vitanov's proposal. Vote 120 MPs: 30 against 76 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. I'm putting Mr. Gajev's proposal to the vote. Vote 119 MPs: 89 against 28, abstention 2. The proposal has been adopted.. we will close the point after the debate is concluded. It's procedure again. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u187	Madam President, honourable Members! In relation to this point, I would like to make a procedure to allow Lieutenant General Andrey Botsev to be present in the Chamber during the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u188	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Please vote on this procedure. 120 MPs voted: 118, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the hall. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are about to look at an extremely important document on which it really depends and is an essential element for the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard, first of all, I very much ask the importer, in the face of the Minister of Defence, to come here. [[GERB lines]] I don't see him, I have no sense of where he is and to follow him into the room so he can be present during the discussion. My request, Madam President, to put to the vote, as it is an important document, that the discussions be submitted on the Bulgarian National Television. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Partial applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u190	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. If the Minister is in the towers of parliament, please come in. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Ermenkov for a direct transmission on the National Television of this item on the agenda. [[(In the hall goes Minister Krasimir Karakachanov. (Applause)]] Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Your colleagues are very pleased with you. [[Noise.]] Abort the vote and announce the result. They voted 120 MPs: 43, against 66, abstentioned 11. The offer is not accepted. General Popov, come in for the Defence Committee report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u191	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense! Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe to the Defence Committee on the State of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, 702-00-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 August 2017. At a meeting on 13 September 2017, the Defence Committee discussed a report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, 702-00-37, presented by the Council of Ministers on 31 August 2017. The meeting was attended by 20 MPs. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Defence Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov, who presented the Report and the motives to him, as well as the Chief of Defence Lieutenant General Andrey Botsev, the Permanent Secretary of Defense Mr. Anton Lastardzhiev and the Head of Political Office Mr. Iliya Nalbantov. The report on the state of defence and the armed forces has been prepared in implementation of art. 23 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. He presented to the National Assembly and the Bulgarian society a report on the challenges of defence policy, which was achieved in 2016. He was approved by Council of Ministers Decision No 503 of 31 August 2017. The report shall contain information on the implementation of defence policy and shall be structured in accordance with the objectives, priorities, tasks and evaluation criteria set. The results achieved, the degree of achievement of the objectives set in sectoral policies shall be taken into account and the efficiency of the use of resources provided shall be assessed. The report contains conclusions on the state of the Armed Forces and directions of work in the next period, which are taken into account in the process of further planning. The Deputy Minister Mr. Zaprianov stressed that with the report the government provides reasoned conclusions and guidelines for focusing efforts in the next reporting period. They are in line with the priorities of the government programme in the sector "Defense" which seek political consensus and decision of the National Assembly. In the discussion of the Report took part the MPs Slavcho Velkov, Milen Mihov, Simeon Simeonov, Emil Hristov, Boris Vangelov, Plamen Manushev, Petar Vitanov, Hristo Gadzhev, Anton Todorov, Nikolay Tsonkov and Vladimir Toshev. In their speeches, the MPs united around the understanding that the report reflects the problems and challenges facing defence. They have voiced concern about the state of the Armed Forces, which calls for urgent measures to be taken to increase the wages and motivation of military personnel, rearrange and modernise existing capabilities, a gradual and consistent increase in the coming years of the defence budget to achieve 2% of gross domestic product. In the speeches of the MPs Slavcho Velkov, Petar Vitanov and Nikolay Tsonkov were made critical remarks on the assessments and the main conclusion that the Bulgarian armed forces were able to carry out their tasks on the missions arising from the constitutional obligations in guaranteeing the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the country within the framework of NATO's collective defence and the Common Security and Defence Policy of the European Union, comparing it with a draft report of the caretaker government. Answered the questions Mr. Atanas Zaprianov, Deputy Defence Minister. It was clear that the assessment of the state of the armed forces in the new report is no less critical, but is realistic. It is clearly stated that the performance of the tasks continues to take place with a number of difficulties and risks to people relating to systemic financial shortages, the increasing incompetence of personnel and the poor state of outdated weapons and fighting equipment. For this reason, some tasks are carried out with restrictions. This assessment shall be based on the analysis of the materials provided by the types of armed forces and the structures of the defence system. It was stressed that it is important to approve the focus of efforts because after the Defence Powers Development Program "Program 2020," the Defence and Armed Forces Report is the next document on which the National Assembly is ruling and thus affirming the measures and actions identified. The Chief of Defence Lieutenant General Andrey Botsev added that an order is currently being prepared to conduct a review of the structures. It is stressed that the measures to be taken are important and urgent. The situation with personnel, as a major factor in resolving the problems in the army, continues to deteriorate, so the time is key and relies on the institutions to implement collective targeted activities. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the Defence Committee with 12 votes in favour, 5 votes in opposition and 3 votes in abstention, proposes to the National Assembly to accept the Defence and Armed Forces Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016, 702-37 presented by the Council of Ministers on 31 August 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u192	Thank you, General Popov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u193	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I hesitated to define this report, whether to define it as an obituary, or to define it as a diagnosis of a terminally ill person. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] In the end, I think the right and more fulfilling of reality will be: a summary of the results of the military action that our army experienced in the longest war that has waged almost 30 years of war, with the greatest losses. [[Noise and lines on the right.]] I'll set an example. One thousand nine hundred eighty-nine years, 152 thousand soldiers, now somewhere around 35,000. You see what the losses are, don't you? About 2,000 tanks, now just below 200. Eight hundred BTRs and 1,000 MT-LBs, now about 500. You understand what this is about? The planes are clear. Minister Karakachanov mentioned them here I quote it from the transcript that it was, against 300 planes, 220 of which were fighters then, and 45 helicopters. Navy. Mr. Admiral, you know better than I do what a state he's shrunk to. Two Esmines we had then, three guard ships, one frigate, one missile frigate, six rocket boats, six torpedoes. What do we have today?! What happened to the army has no analogue in Bulgaria. And there's this right here. More than that. I would also like to read you some of the things that are written inside the report itself to make a conclusion that I think will be a little bit more correct than what we have at the moment. [[(Sighs right, where have you been BSP?...]] During the year there were not about 10% of the planned exercises with formations of the families and special warriors from them. Notice, why? Two flight-tactical exercises due to a shortage of test vehicles and aircraft; two battalion-ranked exercises due to insufficient fuel availability, lubricants and aspiration to store the resources of the special fighting equipment. Mr. Minister, you'd best keep it, if you put it in a museum, we won't use it at all then. Ten tactical drills with ships due to the inability to restore the technical condition of the material part, would not sink next time; twelve trainings with formations with a company rank of two due to insufficiently provided fuel lubricants to conduct them, ten due to commitments of the formations that have engaged in non-specific activities for themselves. And all of this, with the non-completion that we currently have in the army, which represents somewhere around a fifth of the army, allows us, in this report, to conclude that the army is able to carry out its assigned tasks. I think this conclusion is made for one single purpose. This is another fling with the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. Because there is not in the history of the Republic of Bulgaria a case in which a report, which once adopted to the Council of Ministers, will then be revised. I am referring to the report on the state of defence and the Armed Forces of Bulgaria. Because when a true Bulgarian officer was found to say what the state of the army was, that she was unable to fully perform her own tasks, you found a perfidious way to make it a little softer that she was able, but there were risks. Don't mess with the president on a military issue! [[Noise and lines on the right.]] Do not do this, because this does not honor you, neither of colleagues from GERB, nor of you, gentlemen of patriots who allegedly claimed to have supported it during the elections. That's undignified behavior. Admit that the Bulgarian Army is currently unable to fully perform the tasks assigned to it, and cannot perform them with an uncompletion in armaments, with a lack of staff, with a non-execution of its respective activities. For example, the Air Force perform only 74% of the operations it has to perform. What ability and what hundred percent of the performance of the work are you talking about?! Mr. Minister, I keep hoping that you will reasonably acknowledge the state of the army, you will come to the conclusion that it really needs financial measures urgently, the financing of activities, the taking of legislative changes to increase its capacity. You will finally agree that it really cannot, in the state in which it is located, carry out its duties, as was said in the first report, which you do not know why you have returned, so that now that we are looking at the budget, you can really say: yes, the Bulgarian army cannot perform its duties entirely. It is therefore necessary for all politicians to unite so that it can truly be an army that meets modern requirements. Otherwise, I'm telling you again, don't mess with the president through the government. Yesterday you tried to do it with a report on the planes, today we do it with the Defence and Armed Forces Report of the Republic of Bulgaria. Honorable officers can be seen by their conduct and by their responsibility to the army. General Radev proved it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u194	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? I'm joining Mr. Ermenkov so you don't mess with the president. However, Mr. Ermenkov, the report is for 2016, when the President was not Rumen Radev, if you read what is being discussed. [[(Noise and lines. Claps by GERB. A line from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov:]] What in the way of conduct?[Grunts] [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] What's on the table? Do you read the report on what year it is?! [[Loud noise and lines.]] What year is this report for?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u195	Mr. Glauchev, I beg you in a manner of conduct! You're the host of the meeting, if I do anything...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u196	I'm not the host, I'm the chairman of the meeting! He's a host at a disco.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u197	Yeah, you're chairman now. Right. I'm sorry. You are the Chair of the Assembly and you can now give me the floor, take my floor, but if you want to make statements on the substance of what I have said, come down, give me a line, I will answer you in the back. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u198	I do not make a reply to you, but I call on my colleagues to focus by 2016 when the President of Bulgaria was not Rumen Radev. The report is for 2016. And I really urge that no one, as you say, should be hooked, should not be hooked with President Radev! Line, here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u199	Dear Mr. Ermenkov! I couldn't understand whether you were ashamed or proud of the fact that the Bulgarian army fell in number? Because you ruled for most of this period. For 30 years, you ruled, and it ruled...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u200	Please, Mr. Vesselinov, we are discussing 2016!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u201	...in the years when there was economic comfort, and when, instead of buying model battle planes, you bought transport and a bunch of other shit. What I basically want to say and replicate is this: 2016 we are discussing, President is not Rumen Radev. What kind of fundraiser does Rumen Radev have on the subject? And maybe he's the initiator of this report, maybe under his dictation it's written? Is that what you mean? And now it's affected that this report was edited? I don't understand it that way. And last but not least, let me remind you that your group also contributed to the army's lower defense capability, because literally a year ago we offered a selection service that you group did not support. So take your responsibility, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u202	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Mr. Vladimir Toshev, second line, and third line, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Ermenkov! In the report, if you find somewhere to write the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, no matter who he is, I will apologize again. Second, isn't there an officer in your group who understands something about what he's saying to get up here to provide some meaningful analysis of what he's read, even critical? Because of the years you speak of, I have been an operative officer in the Bulgarian Army. Those of you officers know what this is about. The task of the then thousand Bulgarian army was to endure from three to ten hours on the line of the Balkan Mountains, maximum Yambol. The colleagues know this work until the 10th Odessa Military District came, which was several times more powerful than all the power of the Bulgarian People's Army, but we are not talking about this now. I ask you these things that you speak from here, where did you read them, in which report you read and how did you see them, because what you mention has nothing to do with the Report which was submitted by the Council of Ministers of the National Assembly for comment and approval? What I have to tell you, I will answer you in my speech, if you do not know, the President is not in the report. However, to whom did the caretaker government vote on 12 April this year by decision of the Council of Ministers to submit this report? There was no National Assembly back then. I'm asking you: this report, which is about defence and the Armed Forces for 2016, why do we need it? This is a serious matter for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u204	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Here you are, Mr. Manushev, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u205	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The debate on the Defense Status Report did not begin in line with the atmosphere that is in the Defence Committee. This statement had nothing to do with a debate on a report on the state of defence for 2016. In the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is written: The internal and foreign policy of our country is conducted and implemented by the government of Bulgaria. The President is supreme commander in chief when there is a war when there is a supreme chief command. " The entire activity we are talking about is an absolute obligation of the minister, of the Ministry of Defence. By law, he is obliged to present this Report to us every year. We can't go back to the beginning of the transition. First of all, such an army when we had it, we don't need to have such an army. This army and the shortage of money aren't from the last one, two, three, five, ten, they're 27 years old. Witnesses are a large part of the people who served in this army. He can't keep suggesting that we're doing something against the president. No, we're not doing this against the president. The president is, I told you when the Supreme Commander. You repeatedly used the definition: the only worthy Bulgarian officer! There are thousands of worthy Bulgarian warriors and officers! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] It's not just the president! He is a worthy Bulgarian general, but he is not the only one, there are many who serve now. What you're showing is not in this room, on the contrary. I can show you by name many worthy Bulgarian officers who have served 30-40 years in Bulgaria! No matter who was in power! Bulgarian officers accepted 1990 to serve Bulgaria rather than political parties and proved it with their previous service. The Bulgarian army has been faithful to Bulgaria all these years. I can't accept such definitions! This shows that we do not know how to make this report. This report was made by the officers, by the orders of the types of armed forces. Are they cheaters all who write there what the condition is? Don't they know what the condition of the troops is and in this short period they show heroism to have the army? Thank you. [[Wurthy applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u206	Thank you, Mr. Manushev. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u207	Mr. Veselinov, the teaser is in the return here I will try to combine the answer of you and Mr. Manushev on the occasion of the expertise in the report. He is in the return of the report from a regular government to a report made by a caretaker government appointed by the President. If you don't see this relationship, you must be blind. As for the expertise, that's exactly what I wanted to say, the same is the expertise inside, the same people were doing it. The only differences are in the political assessment that the caretaker government has given and which you have given, Mr. Minister. This is the only difference, everything else is the same from this report. And I ask you: isn't that a political conclusion and not a real and expert one? Because when I was talking about an officer, I said: a worthy officer. And when I said he was the only one, I said he was the only one who allowed himself to publicly say what the Bulgarian army was doing and what condition he was in. So please don't try to twist the realities as they are. We have a report made in March with the same factology, with the same numbers and it is clear to all of us that the Bulgarian Army is currently unable to perform its duties 100% and you have written it in your report only a little veiled, but you return it. I'm telling you, if this isn't an attack, it's really a prank. I beg you, when I speak, listen to what I say! Don't twist the words. I said and talked about the condition of the Bulgarian Army today because I do it with pain. Because what we have today when we're sending out.. and this is written in your report, people on a mission dressed in second category clothes and shoes, should we be proud of it!? Is it pain? It's pain! When we don't know how many batteries there are for our operating technique, is that pain? It's pain! Does this mean that we do not carry out our duties properly and fully? It does. Then I couldn't figure out what the return of the report meant!? Therefore, once again, I am explaining to you: the return of the report to the same factual material, with almost the same conclusions, only that one time a little bit more veiled, is a tease with the caretaker government, ergo with the president who appointed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u208	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. To make a statement there is Mr. Kolyo Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u209	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence! The very fact that two versions of the Report are adopted within three months is disturbing and should seriously disturb us as MPs. It is disturbing as a fact, because at the heart of the development of the two reports, as has already been mentioned, are the same teams of the Directorates of the Ministry of Defence, the Defense Headquarters, the Joint Command of the Forces and Headquarters of the Armed Forces. The change is mainly from the political cabinet and therefore the two reports do not differ substantially in content. They differ from the conclusions, which speaks of political pressure in the preparation of the latest report. Based on the same source data, and they cannot be changed, substantial different conclusions are being drawn about the state of defence and the Armed Forces. Notice, the report is about the state of Defense and the Armed Forces! This speaks of conducting the second report, of hiding the truth from society and making more government-friendly decisions in the field of defence and with regard to the Armed Forces. The report, as I said, is about the defence and state of the Armed Forces, but an assessment of the state of defence as a conclusion is lacking. It is missing and yet attention is focused mainly on the Armed Forces, because this is more convenient. The entire first section is dedicated to defence policy. It proves how flexible and consistent it is with reality, but there is no conclusion as to how much this country has led to defence policy. Defense is a complicated concept, and it involves not only politics. Normal documents, but also things like Armed Forces, management system, resources, country's preparation for defence and population preparation. For these things there is neither assessment nor normal conclusions, except for those of the Armed Forces. Everyone knows there's a wartime plan, but how it's implemented, we have no idea. The previous regular government acknowledges that wartime stocks are not being filled out regularly. We are not even implementing the European Union directives, but it appears that this is normal and should not disturb us. Military time reserves that must be higher since we are members of NATO than those of the Warsaw Treaty are not filled in and refreshed regularly. The supplies have not been purchased from 30 or more and are not enough for the real weapons that the Bulgarian army currently has. But it's not embarrassing, and it's not. There is no assessment of the state of the country's infrastructure for defence needs or for the preparation of the population for defence. Then what we are talking about and what report we accept when we say that the first part is about defence. But to get back to the main element, the Armed Forces and their state, which is the main motive for the development of the second report and are the tasks partially or completely fulfilled or not? We know that from the 2015 report the worrying conclusion is that the Armed Forces, i.e. the Bulgarian Army, only partially fulfil the tasks assigned to them by the Constitution. The caretaker government has rightly stated that the Armed Forces are unable to fully carry out their tasks. And GERB's third government has already stated that the Armed Forces can fully carry out the tasks assigned to them or even more veiled in reduced volume. Bravo! It is worthy of the public's joy that it is protected from the imminent danger over the entire Christian world, because we are also protecting the external borders of the European Union. The data on the non-completion of formations, the lack of means of combat training, the poor state of arms and equipment, the need to prepare the reserve are the same. For us, as former military, it is strange how such optimistic conclusions are drawn, unless the goal is to reassure public opinion and strengthen its confidence in the government. The facts speak for themselves: 25% of the military's uncompletion is more than disturbing. Already in royal times, at 25% loss, the parts were considered to be invincible and were taken out for filling. The losses of the Bulgarian army throughout World War I are about 22% and it leaves the front. About 10 percent were killed and led to irretrievable losses. During the time of socialism at 20 to 40% losses formations are considered partially combatable. Today, in the absence of a 25% personality composition for some formations and up to 50%, it is concluded that they can fully or even in reduced volume perform their tasks. This means that a crew of a tank or a fighting machine of three people, when there is no mechanic-leader, is able to fight and will go to battle, or is the commander gone, or the measurer. And this is a fully combatable army?! How is training conducted in a company where half the personnel and commanders are gone? It is likely that all are Rambos and increase their own training during duty and compensation after duty. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's not turn a blind eye to the truth and try to help the army, not fool them with small talk. The reasons are clear: low pay, low motivation for personnel development, low status in society. The military profession is no longer secure and people are leaving and will continue to leave. No optimistic conclusions will change things, and they are giving the government the right not to raise military pay and divert funds to other groups of society. Let's take a look at the army's armaments and equipment, which hasn't been replaced for 30 years. The supplies have not been refreshed and are becoming dangerous to use. We deceive the public that the acquisition of a new plane, a ship or an armored machine is the acquisition of new abilities. Not at all! This is the acquisition of a new technique for which people have to prepare to manage it. To create conditions for repair and maintenance of this technique and only then can we say that we have acquired some abilities. And one more thing, we are deceiving society with the goals for which we will acquire new weapons. The armed forces are a single set of forces that implement joint operations and actions, and everything that is bought must provide the three types of armed forces. The new plane in crisis must have conquered airspace and supported the actions of a land group, protecting sites in the country's territory. Ships are not bought to guard non-existent gear and platforms at sea, but to guard territorial waters and support the actions of land troops. Helicopters are bought for landing of destabilities, supplies, cargoes and other actions, also in support of land troops. There is nothing to be bought for just one task, and it is Land Forces that are being built to ensure the actions of the other two types of armed forces. This is clear to everyone, but it seems only to those who make the decisions is not clear. There is no preparation of the population for defence. There's not a lot of candidates to prepare for as a reserve. We have no reserve forces in the army. This is the result of our previous policy "Neither army nor amplification reserve," and the strength of the Bulgarian army has always been in reserve. Then what readiness are we talking about? What are we hoping for? One thing is clear with the conclusions that we are lying to the public that everything is okay. We need a new strategic defence review, but not drawn up only by the government, but with the participation of defence and security scientists and NGOs on the basis of which to change things. We need working documents, not multi-spoken legislation in the field of defence. The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is not going to support this report, because even the conclusions that the armed forces can carry out their duties in reduced volume are not correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u210	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u211	Mr. Chairman, I won't talk about the president...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u212	Yeah, I need a line to Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u213	I'll talk to the report. Colleagues, look, we're sending a message to the army right now, to the community. Even in the toughest years of the army, in the mid-1990s, no one allowed themselves to give such qualifications for the fighting, for the preparation and for the condition of the Bulgarian army. The Cadre officers know that we were taking our soldiers on leave because we had nothing to feed them. Disprove me if you can, but it really was. At the moment, we are trying in some way to downplay everything that is being done by the army, I do not admit it. Please let us not give such mixed signals, because we are starting to return them to another time. They expect from us, if not unity, then at least one mind, something like a common goal. We can't afford to give these mixed signals right now. From now on, let us try to talk together about what lies ahead of us, not to throw data and facts at each other. I think we can do this. In the Defence Committee, we do it.. there the dialogue is good. And we acknowledge that dialogue is good even when we are different. My suggestion to you is that we do not put things back where the caretaker government did not say what it had not said. Let's see this report, it actually reflects the state of the army. Let's say things, but let's move on together, because people are looking at us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u214	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. That was a line to Mr. Milev. Are you gonna do a douche bag? Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u215	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Minister, Dear colleague Hristov! You and I, when we were in the army, we didn't let our soldiers in because they didn't have food to eat. Personally, at least when I was, I never let soldiers in, that they had nothing to eat. I've also framed everything that's happened, and so far, it's been happening in the army. I agree that we must move forward - it is precisely to reform the army and help the army. By sweeping things under the carpet, nothing's gonna happen. My colleagues know very well and I want a frank debate. Let every expert be given the right to say what he thinks and ask what he wants, and we as MPs tell him how to do it. There is money, we must not fool ourselves that there is no money....not given to the army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u216	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. The word for speech has Simeon Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u217	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will try to jump over what has been said by my fellow Members, but the findings are exactly the same with regard to the two reports. The structural report is prepared according to the established scheme in the years, but more important is its content. Bulgaria remains far from fulfilling the commitments made at the NATO summit in Wales to allocate 2% of gross domestic defence product. The analysis shows that the defence costs compared to 2016 and as of 2010. In 2016 it became 1,28% of gross domestic product. At first glance, honourable Members, these percentages are mandatory if, however, they do not take into account an important feature of them, the payments of earlier modernization projects have been made and, after paying off these modernization projects, the real money that remains in the types of military forces for training, for increasing operational capabilities are extremely limited and directly influences this important process. This leads to the maintenance of the imbalance in the direction of costs compared to the target levels specified by Programme 2020, which is negatively affecting the construction, maintenance and development of the defence capabilities of the Armed Forces. The requirements in the Alliance are to cost 60% for staff, 20% on-going maintenance costs and 20% on capital expenditure, and the latter to be used to acquire new types of armaments and equipment. With us these indicators vary rather: for 2015 "69.9% for staff, 23% for current maintenance and 6.3% for capital expenditure. In 2016, there was a slight increase in capital expenditure, which is at the expense of the MiG-29 engines that were under repair. Financial uncertainty has become a chronic problem that affects staff composition. There is a problem with filling holiday posts with servicemen because in the budget of the Ministry of Defence staff costs are allocated not to personnel by state, but only to really employed posts. The incompletion in the Bulgarian Army has increased dramatically, double in 2014 - 2016. The last meeting of the Defence Committee is now 28. 30, which is extremely worrying. The situation in the Land Forces is particularly difficult. The main reasons for the major incompetence are due to the low amounts of basic monthly wages, which makes the labour of servicemen uncompetitive in the labour market. Strong limitation of the possibilities for filling the vacant posts, which practically binds the commanders' hands and makes daily work difficult for the military duty. The trend is maintained that the funds provided do not comply with the real needs of military formations, which in turn has a negative impact on the maintenance of the equipment in working order, on effective implementation of the preparation. Here I want to sharpen your attention: there are serious risks of incidents with personnel and equipment. As a result of the underfinancing, the declared formations are completed, i.e. those who participate in a mission abroad with conventions, which caused compromises in the implementation of the Union commitments. The report accurately identifies the number of national international exercises and tactical exercises carried out with combat shootings. I'm not giving out the numbers, you read the report. It has not really been done since when a brigade exercise has not been conducted and what is the maximum number of participants, combat and auxiliary equipment in these exercises. In 2016, the exercises carried out are less by six, which is 2.28% compared to 2015. The preparation is concentrated mainly in tactical units to battalion. Dear colleagues, this means platoon, company and very little in battalion exercises, which is extremely worrying. Specialists know exactly what I'm talking about. A major problem in the context of a lack of financial resources is the implementation of the package "Aims for the capabilities of NATO 2013" and this year these objectives are re-negotiated. Usually due to the insufficient financial insurance part of the objectives are postponed, which beats the authority of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Army, and this is again for financial reasons. A very important problem is the release and utilization of surplus ammunition. For 2016, it is about 4070 tonnes, with almost as many tonnes of "912," stored by the Ministry of Defence, which are owned by companies, which further burdened the Ministry of Defence. One important fact: 585 tonnes of cluster ammunition has not been destroyed, with a deadline of 2019. Honourable Members, it is therefore necessary to allocate targeted funds annually and should not be expected somewhere to happen a disaster, but to work preventively ahead of events. Dear colleagues, today's report will be adopted regardless of which votes, but the state of the Bulgarian army requires a new attitude and a new approach, expressed in a worthy Budget 2018. If it is not ensured, the gap between wishes and opportunities will not be able to be filled and the problems for the Bulgarian army will be irreparable and irreparable. Ladies and gentlemen, the cost of defence of 2% of the gross domestic product in Wales is covered by only five countries - the United States, Britain, Poland, Greece and Estonia. I know you've read very well which countries, but I only give one fact. Greece is a country that is practically bankrupt, yet finds money for defence, for buying new equipment and for maintaining its armed forces. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms always consistently and in principle upholds the principles of a balanced approach to the development of the Bulgarian army and the armed forces, so the parliamentary group will not support the revised report on the state of defence and the armed forces.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u218	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I won't. The word has the popular representative Slavcho Velkov. Here you are, dear Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I begin, I ask you, on the basis of the decision taken to continue the meeting until the debate is concluded, to extend the time of our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u220	Yes, thank you, extend the time of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I see you're looking at us on the monitor, of course. I would like to begin, honourable Members, in the spirit that has been mentioned here, in the spirit that reigns in the Defence Committee, avoiding emotion. Still, I will say and start with a fairy tale from many years ago..................... what does a cheeky clerk or a man who is impertinent? This is that state of the individual when he wrote his supervisor's report and took notes when he read it! I'm saying this for a reason. Please be precise, including you, Mr. Chairman. Here's your two reports. They're both here, I took them on purpose. [[shows two reports]] To see when you say something. One is from March 2017, the other, the second report is from July 2017. For what year 2016. We're talking?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u222	Read the title!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u223	Please, Mr. Toshev, don't do any lines from the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u224	I read the title very well. The concept... [[Relations from the National Representative Plamen Manushev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u225	Please, Mr. Toshev, don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u226	Mr. Chairman, if Mr. Toshev wants to come here. I didn't replicate it before. He can make a line after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u227	Mr. Velkov, please continue. [[Relations from the National Representative Plamen Manushev.]] Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u228	I'll wait one more time for Mr. Toshev to calm down if you can't calm him down. Let's say the following: the notions of partiality and partial implementation. You know very well that they appeared during the caretaker government. This is the conclusion, despite the fact that this is the year 2016. If you want me to be even more precise, in the report, in the assessment of the challenges and threats, there are also situations from 2017. There is nothing wrong with this and so it should be. The point is another: that the motivation for the new report is that this is a report on the challenges, the security policy and that it is done as a result of the mixed public response, we are talking that with the decision of the Council of Ministers of 2 June one report has been withdrawn and another report has been made. All the members of the Defence Committee remember very well that at our first joint meeting it was about the report and the Minister of Defence said his reasons. He said: "I will withdraw the report. It will be processed precisely because of this set-up, because the people, the servicemen, the officers, the sergeants, the soldiers are scared and demotivated by such an act. Let's not fool society with what it isn't! I'll tell you what the problem is with the North Korean leader. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u229	Please, no lines from the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u230	I don't know what's yours or ours. I'll put him through to the report, Mr. Chairman. He says, "We will destroy America, we will bring it down to earth." He asks his generals, "Do we have that kind of power? Can we handle the U.S.? The answer is always: Yes, of course, we will crush them. They know very well that they do not have such abilities, but what they risk is risking their heads. What, though, do we risk if we tell the public the truth?! True, the second report is no less critical than the first. The main coliseum is in this: whether it is the notion of a partial one or with great difficulty. It's like one is largely, and it's not the other. [[Noise and lines.]] We're obviously discussing the updated version here. I would also like to say something else: the report also has its good points. I'll tie him up with the National Security Report we're discussing next week. About the threats and challenges for Bulgaria's security............................................................................................ 6 and 7, there's not a word about that threat that Russia has identified! Good for those who did it! Apparently, this is the evaluation of the Military Information Service. After that, the plan of the Ministry of Defence for the Protection of Disasters and Participation in the Mission of the Security of the country is extremely accurate and well developed, I cannot help but admit it! However, we are already going to the heart of this, honourable Members, when we are talking about the lack of staff, about outdated weapons and equipment. When we talk about motivation, I would like to say that the personnel of the Bulgarian army, the armed forces cannot be motivated by a change in the content of the report. He's motivated by something else entirely. Since many of those who are present here have not read the two reports, I will say: the Chief of Defence at the last open meeting of the Defence Commission reports on the percentages of an uncompletion that scare.. we are talking about almost 30% of the incomplete. But he also reported something scary: the desire of young people, Bulgarian citizens to join the army in 2016 was reduced to 0.33 for a single vacancy. For 100 free units 33 people have applied. Let us not deceive ourselves and think that we are able to perform tasks in such a volume as we desire. The main problem, of course, is also the financial problem. Here I do not oppose General Milev, I mean another, namely reaching those 2% of gross domestic product, which, God willing, if you reach 100 billion, will be 2 billion. A lev, which so far is unfulfilled! General Milev is right that we need a defence review and no reports would change the state of the operational capabilities of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Let me tell you this: I, by dignity, appreciate both the efforts of the Minister of Defence and the military leadership to improve the situation, but I cannot agree with the conclusion that with 70 per cent of staff and much less combat equipment, especially in the Air Force, we can carry out 100 per cent of our tasks. I see that Mr. Vangelov is right and impatient, he made a very good remark in the Defence Committee that we should love our army and therefore we should vote for the report. No, gentlemen: we may not vote for the report, but love our army! That is why I am telling you my opinion on this issue openly, exactly, honestly, and I am sure that the Minister of Defense will appreciate it in dignity. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u231	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. - What's the line? I won't. The word has the popular representative Vladimir Toshev. After him, Milen Mihov, after him, Mr. Vangelov. Vladimir Toshev (GERB): Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, since we are showing documents to each other, these are the two reports here in one. [[shows folder]] , i.e. what overlaps with the report of the caretaker government adopted on 12 April and the changes made and adopted at the beginning of June. It's a lot easier compared to telling you guys that way. Now for those who are not fully familiar with the procedure and why are we speaking so harshly here? This report is not informational. He does not introduce only the MPs and society what is happening in the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The preparation of this report shall be organised by the Minister of Defence with an order. In its performance, absolutely all those who are subordinate to the Minister of Defence are civilians and military, begin work and eventually come to a single document which is submitted to the Council of Ministers and comes to the National Assembly. Why am I saying this? I also said in the Commission: there is no first, there is no second, there is no 15th report! There is a report submitted in accordance with the legal order adopted by the National Assembly with the Prime Minister's signature for consideration in the National Assembly. What we're looking at now is the only report. The other is options. Why there's so much talk of comparison, of neglect, of defamation, I don't know what other words were used here. I don't understand. I explained to you the procedure for writing the report. I want to tell you our first argument why we are beginning to analyse what happened to the first version of the report and we have certain doubts and concerns. When submitted to the Defence Council, then General Botsev, who is currently in the Chamber, was officially absent, but his deputy Evtimov was in charge of the Defence Council, adopted the plays, conclusions, analyses and assessments of a report prepared by the military expertise of the Ministry of Defence and was prepared to present himself to the Minister of Defence. Then an outsider, I can say his name, if you ask me in a line...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u232	What?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u233	His name is Milushev and he's the president's advisor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u234	That's not a line, Mr. Toshev! Don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u235	Well, he doesn't know to inform him. The President's adviser becomes, after the generality has spoken, that the report is good, clear, correct, objective, analytical and has the relevant conclusions and recommendations, then the President's adviser, who, by some unknown mechanism, is there, let it be found, if allowed and the law allows it, becomes and makes seven recommendations which actually alter the final and estimated part of the report. Then there's this part-time thing that no general, no colonel, no lieutenant, no sergeant in the army ever wrote. It's a purely political assessment. We have nothing against it, only that it is written by those who are responsible by the Ministry of Defence and by the Council of Ministers, because in our legislation there is no given power and regulation of what an adviser does to anyone under any documents. That's what bothered us. Secondly, the report that we are now looking at is a report that is being submitted to the National Assembly, because in addition to factology, in addition to analysis there are assessments and recommendations. The months of March and April in Bulgaria did not have a regular government and there was no working National Assembly. To whom were these recommendations and assessments directed at the then report? So let's be a little more humble and a little bit more robbed when we talk about this part. Otherwise, the professional colleagues who spoke before me, thank you, but I want to tell you one more thing. They quoted not only the conclusions but also the assessments given and the factology given in this report. The evaluations and conclusions they gave and the recommendations I thank them for trying to read them because they literally read them one to one. They're in the report. Then I do not see why two of the main political forces in parliament said: "We will not support it. You said what the report said. What won't you support? I don't get it. We will not fall into analysis of the Bulgarian language, grammar, definitions and so on. Partially, what does "partially" mean, and what does "with difficulties and limitations" mean? We cannot tell the Bulgarian citizens who finance the army, we cannot the soldiers, the sergeants, the officers, the generals and the admirals in the Bulgarian Army that they can use only part of their tasks because that is not true. Guys, that's not true! They do everything they're given orders, with difficulty. The other assessment, not the current one, but in principle, is that no state and no NATO army can carry out the tasks they are assigned to it alone in full. That's why there's a treaty, that's why there's AALIANA, that's why there's joint teachings, preparation and so on. Never the Bulgarian Army, except for the creation of the Third Bulgarian State, with the Unification, with the Serbian-Bulgarian War, the First and Second Balkan War was warring alone, but then there were other conditions. With regard to percentages, here I see colleagues who very well know what this is about, but do not correctly report these percentages. I'll tell you, it's scary that I was part of the Bulgarian People's Army when we were part of the Warsaw Treaty, and it's true what my colleague said that 20% of the losses are beginning to think, 40% are withdrawing the compounds for completion. I don't want to get politicized because I've been trying to speak non-politically until now, but then in the motto of the building it was written that the care is for the man. Only 40% of the dead and destroyed combat equipment was taking the compound out of the operation. For NATO, these percentages, if some you do not know, are not secret, are not secret, with 3% being rescheduled and 6% ending the operation. It's the truth! So who's the guy, what's his name, let's not comment on him right now, because we're gonna get into other pranks. Another, for these notorious GDP rates and military cases. Yes, colleagues, only re-confirmation, and with a definite plan, made it to NATO president, supported by the Political Party GERB and the plan for how long will we reach these 2%, made it the government of GERB. Let's not just talk about percentages, because it's not clear. Let's talk to absolute numbers. The famous percentage of 1.46 for 2010 is wonderful! For 2016 it is 1.28 per cent. However, 1.46 per cent for 2010 refers to 841 893 thousand. lv. for the Ministry of Defence, approximately 842 those for the last year. leva, the difference is 240 million leva. [[Reply.]] Minimum difference in favour of 2017 and this with small exceptions was made by the governments of Boyko Borisov. The other because we are talking again about the rates of how it has fallen since 2016 compared to 2015. Yes, there is a decrease 0,2% only that the absolute difference is 80 million plus for 2016 compared to 2015. More money, although the rates are less. Do you know why that is, fellow Members, I say it politically here? Because GDP in the management of Boyko Borisov is growing. It's growing a lot! So the percentages are calculated by different absolute numbers, and let's not turn a blind eye to that. That's also in the report. One more thing. [[Reply from the National Representative Slavcho Velkov.]] It says so!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u236	Please, Mr. Velkov! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u237	Boyko Borisov signed the report, how could he not be there?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u238	Mr. Toshev, please don't engage in dialogue with the House!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u239	I have a remark to Minister Karakachanov, and since my colleague here clearly has sources that I don't have, if he's looking at me right now, let's get the next report... [[Mister Karakachanov enters the hall.]] Ah, Minister Karakachanov enters. I have a remark for him in the non-completion... [[Noise and lines.]] Guys, listen, this is serious. In the non-completion, which is so waved after the money, after the financials for the army, is allowed to make a comparison 2014. "2016." Everything else is 2015 The report is year-to-year and should not, because then the percentage would not be as dire and as scary as the colleagues make it. Yes, it's scary, but it's written, colleagues, it's written about what the report is about. In the first sentence, which was written, perhaps by the President, you said it, writes: "The report on the state of defence and the armed forces was drawn up in the execution of art. 23 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. He presented to the National Assembly and the Bulgarian society a report on the challenges to the defence policy and its achievements in 2016. So, Mr. Minister, keep in mind, for the next report, compare it to 2016 so we don't have any co-workers and make excuses. Moreover, I think that, in its final part, the report that we are now looking at, compared to the previous one, which, I thank Minister Karakachanov for having the courage to withdraw, is much more analytical and more critical and sharper than the previous one. And this has been done for one single purpose: concern for the army, for the soldier, the sergeant and the officer, because if the sharp conclusions for the financial incompletion, for the non-completion of people, for the outdated armaments and equipment that are difficult to maintain, we will have no grounds for modernization, for re-arming, for increasing the budget. So let's just talk purely political, because that's how we're assigned, and we need to protect someone who's not in either the first or the second, or he's not going anywhere, because he just has no place in these reports. I think that the report that has now been presented to us is an instrument of the Minister of Defence, the Ministry of Defence through the Council of Ministers, to give clear information to the Assembly because it is not too late, colleagues, it is not too late. Yes, the political situation has forced us to look at it now, not a few months ago, but we are now forming the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. So everything that is written in it gives us reason to look for more funds, to look for a clearer motivation, to look for better weapons and equipment for the army. And let us not talk only one-sided, because personally I promise you, here I see other friends who on other topics will stand up and say: Boyko Borisov does not give money, does not give money for teachers, does not give money for doctors, does not give money for social activities, does not give money for pensions. But then I'll stand up and say, "Coworkers, those standing next to you, want money for an army and armaments." The government of GERB together with our coalition partners take care of Bulgaria. Yes, I personally, as a colonel of the Bulgarian Army, which I am proud of, and I say that I am a soldier for life and a temporary politician, I tell you and understand it with all my heart if there is no army, there will be no Bulgaria, there will be no kindergartens, there will be no hospitals. We all know that, and I hope so. Our task here is to approach balanced, reasonable and unemotional. We're taking care of the army, hopefully 2024 we'll reach this notorious 2%. I hope that European leaders, including Boyko Borisov, will think very carefully about the collective protection of Europe. That's another subject for me, but it's out of this report. I would like to conclude with the general conclusion of the report, and listen well to it: the Bulgarian Army is fulfilling its constitutional obligations on defence and the protection of the sovereignty of the Republic of Bulgaria within the framework of NATO collective defence and the common security and defence policy of the European Union. The rest are details... clear, clear, with conclusions and how to overcome the shortcomings. Thank you, Mr. Minister, Mr. General, through you to all the soldiers, sergeants, officers who serve in the army in this troubled not only external but also internal environment of shortcomings which you have very well described in this report. We are all guilty of this state not only of the army and of the state. Let's make ourselves proud of something we're starting to do. Yesterday we adopted one report, today I will accept another. Only with reports we will not do work, but the most important will be in two months when we vote on the budget. Let us be worthy Bulgarians to show our respect, love and love not only to the motherland but also to the army and its soldiers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u240	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Are there any lines? I won't. To speak, the people representative Milen Mihov. If you don't mind, Mr. Vangelov, let's give the floor to a colleague from BSP for Bulgaria and then you to alternate the groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u241	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I will start from what is key: why was this report withdrawn and why was it tabled by the new government and the new minister? The caretaker government for the short term of its government did wonders of bravery, in a few months it did what others had done for years.. solved the problem with the new planes and adopted a Defence Report which was supposed to bring to a Assembly that did not exist. It was developed, especially after the results of the parliamentary elections came out. I note these world-famous successes of the caretaker government, with which, by the way, BSP had nothing to do with you, at least that is what it was said, because I have a personal disturbance that the elections were won and the parliament broadcast a parliamentary government. I am embarrassed even that there have been elections at all, because it seems that the official government is better than the parliamentary government. With this irony, I would like to suggest the bankruptcy of the accusations why Minister Karakachanov withdrew a text and signed a document bearing the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence and the Council of Ministers, which should also be considered responsibly today. Otherwise he had to play the role of messenger and protect those written by others. The key sentence around which the political debate is being held is: The Bulgarian Armed Forces are now only partially able to carry out their mission tasks arising from constitutional obligations to ensure the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the country. This, translated into ordinary language, means that the Bulgarian armed forces cannot guarantee the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the country. One such text is not consistent in an official document and I will say why. It is like saying that the Bulgarian officers, sergeants and soldiers will fulfill their oath, but partly. Most of us have taken an oath before the red flag and the pentagram that obliges us and which continues to oblige us. There's a scary sentence there that obliges us to give our lives as well. This document tells us that we will, but partly. That is why I believe that the wording is extremely correct. He says that the Bulgarian Armed Forces are the Bulgarian officers, sergeants and soldiers who can fulfill their constitutional task. But the second sentence is much more important: "This will happen with a number of hardships, risks, and sacrifices, and if you do not give yourself God, God calls us to the highest test, this will happen with great blood. The history of Bulgaria has shown that the mistakes of politicians and finance ministers have often been paid on the battlefields with the most precious with Bulgarian blood. This is the scarier assessment for those who have managed Bulgaria in the last 30 years, and should not pass the blame from the sick to the healthy head. In this sense, I would like to take account of what is said in the new version and is missing in the old one. On page 80, some priorities have been placed. We were just talking about the non-completion in our armed forces, which I think is our biggest problem. Weapons and equipment we can buy, make or import, but people ready to fight for Bulgaria have nowhere to go! The first three points are clearly indicated. General Botsev mentioned the alarming figures here were quoted correctly for the assembly of the army. But, gentlemen, they will continue to deepen if we do not change our policy, because the country's economic development, the increase in income will continue to dissolve the scissors between the great requirements to serve in the army and the payment to receive, compared to that in the civil sector. I therefore take the liberty of quoting these three very important things that are said in the Report and which must be heard first of all about the people in the armed forces: the increase of salaries in defence; changes that stimulate the motivation of the servicemen and effective management of human resources; and thirdly, the preposition of the Bulgarian armed forces, which are located in the country in dire need! We have entire regions in which we do not have an army, and the people want to see, at least, an army and are ready to help her in the local government. In these words, I say that the report submitted by Mr. Karakachanov and the government does not revise, but, on the contrary, correct and supplement the text of the caretaker government! He is critical of all those current factors that concern the defence, security and development of the army! Let's not go back to history, because we can remind you that 2 billion has been spent by 2009. BGN, against which we have zero, zero, zero military capabilities! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u242	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Nikolay Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. General! I listened carefully to the debate. I thank Mr. Mihov and Mr. Toshev for admitting why they changed the report and why it was pulled back. You have officially announced now that there is a war against the President. Thank you for confessing. A few words about the report because you said that it was critical enough that it had become much more analytical. Essentially, by comparing the two reports, we have a slight change in conclusions, a greater change in the focus of efforts and a small social policy. Well, what's the difference? I agree with the military has given the information, the experts have been working on the report. It's possible there's information that's been saved. But one question arises: why did the conclusions change then? The information is the same, the data and the facts are known. Obviously, they have to be interpreted differently. In other words, to distort the real state of the Bulgarian Army again, not to give what it is. And this way, what signals are we broadcasting? Is this how we solve the problems of the Bulgarian Army? I'm only giving you a few examples. In Section I, Development and functioning of the Ministry of Defence as a modern institution of a democratic state, an attempt has been made to analyse, in particular, the regulatory framework, how it operates, how the Ministry is managed, the whole system. Okay, but nowhere is the cause and root of the problem given, why is the functioning so bad at the moment of the Ministry of Defense, given this integrated model that was introduced, with which to actually remind, what happened? The balance between civil and military expertise has been disturbed, and a number of errors have been made in recent years. Here, we see the result in the report, although it is very veiled. It has to be read between the lines, and it's familiar with the system. The report does not mention a word about the problem known to everyone in the system, which is related to civilians who are appointed to senior administrative posts which can definitely be claimed not to be competent enough, are not prepared. What results do we expect? Those faces were preparing the report! I'll leave it to you to draw your conclusions. I'll give you one more example. There are problems in the distribution of the financial, budget and budget. Framework agreements shall be concluded with only one contractor. The same contractor participates in more than two public contracts and performs them. These are all vicious practices. Not to mention the delays in competitions, the announcements of the decisions of the competitions held. With such practices, we cannot expect good results. Moreover, in this direction, the allocation of funds becomes so that non-priority activities are financed. You said you should give more money to the types of armed forces. We agree. Why, then, have non-priority activities been financed so far? I'll give you one more fact. For the past two years, I also said that in the Defence Committee we have a double increase in this incomplete, of numbers. Well, then what's the result, what's the reason, who's guilty? Aren't these reasons for the problems that exist? Something else to do with the non-completion. Currently, there are funds only for employed jobs, and not finance what is given by state, by list. Well, and we expect to fill out this malfunction?! To finish, I will tell you just one more thing.. These are common data: 2012. For one year, 1370 servicemen, officers left; for 2013, 2014 they were only 20. You guys do the math. A single question arises in the report that you must answer: what have you done so far in three governments, why have you not solved the problems of the army? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u244	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. - What's the line? I won't. To make a speech, the People's Representative Vangelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u245	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In another way I thought to speak, but I cannot resist not commenting on how many tanks, planes and troops Bulgaria had until November 10th, because the credit for this, as far as I know, I am still the 72nd set, belongs to Todor Zhivkov and not to you! The same Todor Zhivkov you took him out of power [[Applause from OP]] Then you applied Ran-Ut with Comrade Lukanov and began to destroy the army first, then the economy and so on. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Stop putting us all the time, every day, in some fake war with the president, which you obviously want to legitimize yourself with. [[a line from MP Tasco Ermenkov]] because I do not think that my president is the enemy of me, not of my parents, not of IMRO, not of all Bulgarian people! So don't put us in a war with the president, because we don't have one! If you want to keep it, do it yourself! Then on the report. The report is completely objective, fully detailed, detailed and honest. By listening to your speeches, even you don't deny it! I would like to call on you at the end, and you told me yesterday not to call: okay, then let's be people who have government thinking; let's not be a field for a party race; let's from now on, let's all work for the army in the coming years! Who among you does not agree to raise the wages of soldiers, officers and generals? Nobody's against it, right? Who doesn't agree to buy new fighting equipment for the three types of armed forces? You all agree. Then enough of this coming back, enough of this party, disgusting fight that only frustrates people! And stop insulting the Bulgarian servicemen with these findings, with these words about obituaries and so on it is very insulting to them. We from the United Patriarchs will support the report. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u246	Thank you, dear Mr. Vangelov. Are there any lines? No. People's representative Petar Vitanov has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Vangelov, we have remained only in the format of the Defence Commission so that we can stop with the etudes and can be sincere and continue this spirit of consensus around which we united our views on the state of defence. What I want to say and why I cannot agree with political assessments. Actually, that's our main difference. We cannot agree with this inference purely political for several reasons. First of all, I'm going to point out a few facts. It is clear from the part of the report that the Ministry of Defence in 2016 received the lowest budget from 2010 to now.............................................................................................. Mr. Toshev, you never speak with absolute values, but only with percentages. Two findings in this part of the report, which I think are clear evidence of the critical state of defence. First of all, General Simeonov referred to the.............................................. Secondly, the necessary funds for fuel and maintenance are not fully provided, i.e. there is no way to maintain preparation and repair and improvement of infrastructure and equipment. I give another example of the 29 percent failure in the Land Forces. You know, Admiral Manushev, that there is a NATO categorization of combat compounds, according to which more than 30% shortage of personnel leads to the invincibility of formations. For me, the truth is one thing, is that the Minister did not like the word "partially" and that is why he practically commissioned the drafting of a new Report. These frantic conclusions simply do not reflect the real assessment of the state of defence and the armed forces and therefore we will not agree with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u248	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. Are there any lines? Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u249	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would very quickly like, first of all, to take account of some of the things that have been said so far. As a matter of fact, first of all, I am surprised by some previous BSP colleagues who gave up one of the reforms introduced by the government Stanishev. As I recall, the integrated Ministry of Defence was introduced by the Defence and Armed Forces Act in 2009, submitted to the Council of Ministers of Stanishev. If you think this decision was wrong, okay. As for the calculation of the statutory and list composition, yes, this happened initially with Budget 2013. This change, but in the end. The Oresharski government had two years and two budgets to change it, but such measures have not been taken, the problem continues so far and the minister will have our support if he can reach an agreement with the Ministry of Finance, that thing will change. From another point of view, speaking about the resource environment here, the last few speeches should still be said that Budget 2016 in the Ministry of Defence is nearly 160 million. more only for capital expenditure. Adding 40 million. lv. additionally for the Military Medical Academy, but let's not take them "1.28" and it says it very freshly in the Report because of the larger gross domestic product than expected in the adoption of the 2016 Budget in 2015. Let's quote the figures correctly. After all, there are people who also understand finance and could very easily correct those mistakes made by colleagues. I do not want to bicker and I remember the three-year budget forecast, which was adopted by the Oresharski government with then Finance Minister Chobanov and the 2016 budget forecast was for 0.98% defence budget. Frankly, it's a good thing the government resigned so that this wouldn't happen, because that's over 500 million. There'd be less to defend. Let's see how we better spend the funds in defence that are separated from the Bulgarian taxpayer so that there can be maximum quality of spending resource. Of course, we should all be aware here, in this Chamber and in society, that the biggest problem is human factor. This is not just a problem in the Defence Report, and we should not look at it as a separate part of the common public life. This is a problem of national security and we need to make it very clear in the examination of the National Security Report of the Republic of Bulgaria. The level of education, the need for quality education, is extremely important and therefore every lev that is invested in education will lead to much better results. Here it was said 0.30 people who were assigned to the army, but the number is one to one. There's a man reporting for an opening. The problem is that half of them can't withstand an elementary IQ test. That's the big problem! The other part is sick and they don't meet the medical conditions. That's the big problem! The problem is to look at how to fix these two things so that there are people who can apply, because there are times when even by 100% to increase wages, if there are no people who do not want to apply, if there is no attractiveness of the service, then money is not always the leading factor. Let's think about it mostly, because I will say again, I welcome today's decisions of the Council of Ministers to separate over 600 million. lv. for educational infrastructure. Such costs will lead both to a solution and to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u250	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Commission President Konstantin Popov and then Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u251	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, Dear Mr. Lieutenant Botsev, Chief of Defense, honourable colleagues! Good speeches, thank you to all those who have spoken. The report is read and understood. Everyone has the right to their own opinion, everyone has the right to express an opinion, everyone has the right to defend it. The important thing is that the Minister of Defence and his team have proposed a very critical report, I would add, a very faithful report. This is risky for both the Minister and his team, because this implies that from now on he must take serious measures and must take them in due time, prudently to seek efficiency. We must support him in this endeavor, as everyone has said. That the state of the armed forces, the defense, is not good, is true. Everyone we've ever worn has suffered, we all wear the scars of it. What exactly will be the wording of this is important! More important is what I think will be done from now on. I very much appreciate what Mr. Velkov has proposed to the Defence Committee. You said if you offered 2%, would you support us? Of course we'll support you. Run an analysis, talk to the party, I guess this is consistent with the party leadership, tell me where these amounts will be taken. We'll discuss them. Why not? I welcome such a speech from Mr. Velkov wonderfully! Mr. Velkov, I'm standing behind you. The important thing is, in my opinion, the Bulgarian Army needs this to slightly reduce the tone, to stop looking for wonderful, winged words in the dictionaries, to draw up wonderful sentences to catch, as they say, so that you can get out in the media. I think it's better if we work better because people expect that from us. People expect reasonableness from us, expect us to work in their interests because their interest is not personal interest, and this is the interest of Bulgaria. Here I appreciate the speeches of both Mr. Vangelov and all those who are critical enough to what happened in the army, who stressed the importance of the Armed Forces as the main pillar of statehood. In my opinion, on the eve of the national holiday, we are obliged to thank all the servicemen for having them, for fulfilling their military duties and thanks to them we have independent Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u252	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. You've got about 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u253	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. General Lieutenant! I use these thirty seconds just to say that we from the Coalition of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) at no time questioned the need for revision of politics to the Bulgarian Army, to its abilities. What we talked about was pain, so that in the last year this failure has doubled, and that this is a trend that is scary. Understand this as sympathy, not criticism. Let's congratulate both the officers and the sergeants and the soldiers and the generals and Admirals of the Bulgarian Army with the coming holiday, and at least let the topic of national security take power. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u254	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Are you going to use a hole? There's no point, yeah. I'm closing the debate. The word is Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u255	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable General. Botsev, Mr. Chairman of the Defence Committee, honourable colleagues, mostly members of the Defence Committee! I think the debate that took place today was useful. The truth is, he was artificially politicized. Artificially politicized because the report we made with my colleagues at the Ministry of Defence has much more criticism and remarks than in the previous report. However, as defence minister on the third day, I publicly stated that I would withdraw this report. Mr. Velkov correctly pointed out that I was not in the Chamber, but I listened carefully, I said it frankly, directly, without hiding. There was no point in asking twenty times why, who and how did this happen? I'm telling you, no one's putting pressure on me. Those who know me know that I can't have pressure. Nobody asked me that question! I am convinced, and I said it on the third day, I was honest with you, I said it at the first meeting of the Commission, where we congratulated each other and made a commitment to work together. Why did I do that? In the report itself it is very clearly written, and I say again with additional facts and arguments, analyses that the condition is critical, severe, bad and unpleasant. We have described why... an understatement of the finances needed for the army, low wages, not to list everything you read, commented on it in the Commission several times, commented here too. I was opposed to that wording that the army was unable to carry out its constitutional duties. Here I will answer the question which Mr. Tsonkov asked who was responsible? In no way is the previous or previous government to blame. We are all to blame for this, all of us who have gone through this Chamber as MPs, or as members of the executive power. In these 27 years, reforms, reforms, and all sorts of things have been done in the army, and it has come to this situation. Why did I resent it at first and say that this would be removed? Because it is not fair to those men and women of Bulgarian soldiers, sergeants, officers who perform a heavy service in short supply and lack of a positive attitude in many cases on the part of politicians, it is not fair and it is not fair to throw the blame on them to point the finger at them, to put them on the shameful pillar and say: "You are incompetent and can't carry out your constitutional duties towards your country. "The guilt is not in the people with uniforms, to the wars we need soldiers, women, men, officers, sergeants, sailors, admirals, generals, the blame is political, for many years after the changes, many Bulgarian politicians have reasoned that now when we enter NATO we do not need so much money for defence, there is someone to protect us. Guilty are many politicians who allowed and allowed in the army and the army's money to be misplaced. It wasn't the soldier who saw all this, but he was patient and carrying his service. Yesterday, my colleague Valeri Simeonov said that I was very fond of going to teaching and shooting. Yeah, I go everywhere on science and shooting, and I'm gonna keep walking. And I see these people who introduce themselves to these teachings, and I meet them. None of them asked me the question: why are our salaries so low? Nobody! And that honors them, even though the wages are low. These people, despite their low wages, perform a heavy service, and we put them on the disgrace stake, point them out to the politicians who are responsible for the state of the army, I do not accept that. This is neither manly nor officerly nor honorable. That's the reason. I was the man. I told you, you don't have to ask the question, who? I was the one who insisted on this thing. And you understand that, I told you then. This is the only thing, as many of BSP colleagues have said: the only thing that distinguishes between the two reports. Well, well, is that the point? Should we at all costs be nihilists and bring insult to the minds of young men and women who carry the service and protect Bulgaria? I don't think we should. That's what I'm talking about. The findings with the additional things.. You say it did not differ significantly. [[Deputy Minister Krasimir Karakachanov shows the report.]] Here, with orange and green in the report, I have noted the additions we have made in it. There's not a lot of them. We have very bravely and clearly said what needs to be done. The charges that sounded like the previous report was an epicrisis, and we were changing the epicrisis. No! It was an epicrisis, only we tried to give the recipe and assign the treatment. It is up to our common will whether our concern for the army will be realized in practice. That was the reason, everything else is unnecessary. Should I go into sharp political rhetoric and ask: didn't we think 2007 when the Constitution changed and we removed the recruitment military service that we wouldn't be able or would we reduce our capabilities? Should I ask the question: who did it, what words were pouring out of this tribune, how our army would be small, but at the expense of this modernly armed, well-trained and well-paid. Of these four things: small, trained, paid and armed, only remained small. Should I remind you in which government it was? Do I recall last year, when we were looking at the budget, a prominent colleague of yours, when I deeply respect Janaki Stoilov, from this very tribune said your opinion against increasing the cost of defence? Should I remind you what was said at the Advisory Council just a few months ago with the president of your leader that you are against 2% of gross domestic product? There's no need for these things. I said: we are all guilty, those we have passed from this Chamber as MPs. So instead of transferring the ball or the hot potato, let's all try to solve the problem, convince both society and finance that more means of defense are needed. As was said: if we don't have an army, we won't have a country. That's a general opinion. We are mostly colleagues from the Defence Committee who have talked about this a long time ago. Thanks for the criticism. I think that when it comes to our army, to the security and defence of Bulgaria, we should think as Bulgarians and not divide ourselves into opposition and government because things change, the people who speak from this platform as ministers come and go, but the problems remain unresolved. Let us give an example to the whole society that as a nation, as a political elite, we have the will to do something together, not separate from our political selfishness, to do something together for our Bulgarian army! Finally, I would like to thank all the soldiers, sergeants, officers, generals, admirals who, despite the insults they have endured over the years by politicians, despite the lack of money and the lack of resources in which they have to work and carry on their service, continue to serve Bulgaria. Thank you. And to everyone, happy feast tomorrow! However, September 22nd should serve as a good example. If Bulgarian politicians were not united on September 22nd, we would still be vassals of the Ottoman or any other empire. Independence and strength are achieved with unity, written on the building of the National Assembly. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-21.u256	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence. My fellow Members, with this, the time for plenary for today has been exhausted. The vote on the draft decision will take place in the next plenary sitting. We're adjourned. Next regular plenary session on Wednesday, 27 September 2017, 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
