ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u1	Good morning, colleagues! We've got a meeting to open. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, messages. "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 85 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we withdraw the bill submitted by us on 19 December 2017 amending the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018, No 754-01-89, submitted on 19 December 2017. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. An updated audit work programme of the Court of Auditors for 2017 has been submitted to the National Assembly. No 724-00-17 by the President of the Court of Auditors, indicating relevant changes thereto. The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We continue with the first point for today: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE BUDGET OF NATIONAL HEALTH AND HEALTH CASE 2018 We have a bill tabled, signed by the presidents of all the parliamentary groups. There's no report. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank all the chairmen of the parliamentary groups for yesterday's Presidency Council, where political consensus has been reached on the point to be seen as the first in today's session to repeal § 6. I believe that if we continue this political consensus, today we can do both first and second votes, and actually calm both patient organisations and oncosals, and we politicians can be much more humble in an extremely sensitive topic for society. I thank you all for understanding that today, as the first point, we have the watching for the dropping of § 6 in the Health Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u3	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Replies to Mr. Tsvetanov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Jaffer, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! We're about to put an end to a saga that lasted nearly two months. We made a decision that lasted in the public domain one weekend and caused a lot of excitement. We are about to make an absolute precedent with the cancellation and update of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund the next day after its promulgation in the Official Journal. Are we, however, prepared to draw conclusions from what happened to us all together in connection with this decision? What did we do? We adopted an unconstitutional text. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] We had the executive take action to implement this decision, using and crossing other legislative texts of the current legislation, because there was no way for the executive to implement this decision. By setting up six committees, it could not help but violate the legislation in force because it had to comply with the Public Procurement Act, and in the end the prices that had to be paid for the so-called "new molecules" would have been much higher than those that would have been achieved by the National Health Insurance Fund. Whose interest were we going to protect? We wouldn't have protected the interest of the patients. We would not have achieved any fiscal results and we would have damaged the budget of the Health Insurance Fund and the public funds at all. There is, however, a very important point that you have indeed missed, even though we have mentioned several times from this tribune that this problem will arise. Now the opportunity is from the Reserve of the Cashier to finance these activities, this payment. But do you remember that the cashier's 10% reserve made it 3%? And not only did you make it 3%, from there you took more money at second reading and distributed it out of those 3%, and there is currently no more than 80 million. If indeed the amount to be paid is 50 million, we have a budget of the Health Insurance Fund for next year, without having yet entered into force, which is the minimum health care. Once again, we will put the people who will have to make and implement this decision in a very difficult situation. The National Assembly must realise that, with each decision and vote, we trigger a mechanism for other institutions, the state to implement these actions, and always has an effect. In this case, the effect would be directly on people's lives and health. I hope that the National Assembly, by achieving the Consence, will learn lessons from what has happened to us all. We cannot talk about consensus when a mistake has been made and we need to cover up the consequences of this mistake. The consensus must be achieved when decisions are made, when they are discussed and when we assess what the impact on the fissure and on people's lives will be. With these words, I will conclude my speech and call for more reason and consensus before the important decisions, because it is important for all of us both as representatives of the political powers and for the people whose lives directly reflect our decisions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Jaffer. Any lines to Mrs. Jaffer's statement? Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u6	Madam President, colleagues, Mrs. Jaffer! Last time I took the liberty of calling from the patient's position. Many beautiful Christian holidays are approaching and again making such suggestions, again I tell you, do not play with people's health! Good holidays are coming. Of course, everyone here is interested in the life and health of all cancer patients. [[DPS lines.]] Stop making before Christmas a policy of everything, especially the sick people! It's not Christian. Yeah, there'll be money for everyone. Humility is essential! The last day of parliament playing politics again, I think you're crossing the limits of the holidays. There'll be money for all the sick. You got it! What's more than that?! If it's a step forward, it's in the name of the people, if it's a step back, it's still in the name of the people. What is the problem today to debate again before the holiday, that there is almost political not to say the word. Have a nice holiday, everyone! Bless you! Let us pray at the feast for the health of all the people who have caught this horrible, unpleasant disease! Let's have some health to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u7	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Second line? Will there be a hole, Mrs. Jaffer? No. Come in, Professor. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! For good reason, I am very excited about today's decision that we will all make together. I would like to express on behalf of both my personal and our entire parliamentary group a positive, sharply positive attitude towards this consensus that has been achieved. I want to tell you as a doctor who's been through his whole life among the most severe pathology of cancer children, that when I started my career, and I walked in between these kids with naked heads and mothers like candles burning in front of them, it was only a matter of time before we got to the fatal end. In just 30 years, world medicine has turned this field of people with no hope, into a field of people who can return quite normal to life. And today we all give this chance on the eve of Christmas Day. I suggest that each of us reconsider our vision and face the problems of Bulgarian healthcare, as the problems of innovative medicines are only part of the big health puzzle. We remain with an extended hand with our proposal for a serious professional discussion that would take Bulgarian healthcare to the level necessary for our country. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u9	Thank you, Professor. Mikhailov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Are there any other speeches? Mrs. Ninova, come in for a statement. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! Of course, thank you to all those who signed the proposal and to the MPs behind this proposal to change the decision of the National Assembly regarding the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. However, there is something that bothers me, even from Vejdi Rashidov's statement, that you approach this change not as an awareness of a mistake, but as a change imposed under public pressure, by opposition and so on. I think that the right attitude would be not scary in saying: "Yes, we made a mistake, we will correct it, instead of continuing with the accusations that one or the other uses people, their diseases and so on. I think today is a good day because a justice is being restored to every Bulgarian citizen to have access to health care. In addition to the word 'cost', which we are restoring in parliament today, I think there is another important one that we should note, and it is a 'order' and the rule of law'. On the outside, it seems that the Prime Minister has solved the matter only this time. Many times out of this tribune, we have criticised the prime minister for underestimating parliament, insulting it and violating the principles of parliamentaryism and of the parliamentary republic, even for such a statement, I have been expelled from the House. But I would like to assure you that in this case today, apart from justice, we are also taking a positive step towards restoring parliamentaryism in Bulgaria. Because, when we spoke with the Prime Minister, he intended to circumvent the Parliament's decision and resolve it single-handedly with committees, with additional funding from the Council of Ministers, contrary to the Budget Act of the Health Insurance Fund. It is good that it finally came to the decision to return the question to where it started and where it should be decided in the Bulgarian Parliament, not by the executive and sole. I therefore believe that today we are also taking a good step towards restoring parliamentary and the rule of law. However, there is another word for today besides justice and order and it is a lesson. A lesson for all of us, but most of all for 126 people in this room that we should not vote mechanically something that is dropped from somewhere, that we should work with arguments that we should hear these groups of people that solve problems and we are here. That's the point of today's meeting. We may be blamed outside, it may seem illogical, it may seem unconscionable, but today we are correcting one mistake and the words for today, at least for me, are: justice, order and lesson, not to do such things from here on out. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? Here's a line, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Ninova, at the beginning, when I took the floor, I said: "Let each one of us be as humble as possible and let us not have this political charge, which can challenge us again. At the moment you are once again aiming to return to this field, about which you said we should exit from it the field of opposition. So let us not say that the sole decision has been made by the Prime Minister so that something can be done. We all know that there is a leak of funds on the topic of the topic of...... and we all know that there is corruption where there are the biggest challenges where the most money is spent by Bulgarian citizens. And that is why we had taken an approach in order to actually be able to create these committees, with the regulation to discipline and create a better order, but in no case to be at the expense of the treatment of the oncological or for all those who need treatment. And this was a complete guarantee that was given by Minister Ananiev. However, at the moment, of all these talks that we have had in the last few days, the only thing we are looking for is to achieve this political consensus and not have a single political force play around with people's fears. Believe me, it is much better to go to the vote and in time we will have the necessary debate that will have to be held between all the parliamentary groups and the experts, so that we can actually create this environment and that this topic will be up-to-date for all of us politicians and for all those who have a direct relationship as control functions in the field of health and the draining of the funds of the Bulgarian taxpayer. Therefore, fellow Members, let us really put an end to this debate and move on to a vote, because from yesterday's political consensus, I was extremely impressed by the fact that every single parliamentary group, representing ourselves with its President of the Conference of Presidents, unanimously signed under the texts, for which I thank and once again confirm it. [[Relations from MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Let us move on to a vote and be able to actually calm down all those to whom, in one form or another, we politicians have created additional fears for them. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u14	Thank you, Madam President. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] What's surprising about me doing Mrs. Ninova's line? I have the right to do it. First of all, I would like to say that precisely because of this, Mrs. Ninova, that someone in the Chamber did not understand that you said the following: Thank you, Brother Eyebrows, for what you did for me this morning. [[GERB lines.]] Yes, she quotes Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u15	Where's the line? [[Noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u16	Mr. Lazarov, please let us be truly humble and polite before the feast!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u17	Do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u18	I would like to introduce you, Madam President, to a little child's letter, [[IN ENGLISH]] which he wrote like this, and to thank everyone on the left and on the right: Dear Mr. Velkov, I am Svetlin Georgiev and I have autism. I want to be able to make my own decisions about my life. Please accept the law that will allow me to do so. Happy holidays! Thank you on behalf of Svetlin Georgiev for showing understanding. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] I did not understand only who was used 21 Thank you, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u19	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Is there gonna be a third line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u20	Madam President, honourable Members, my reply to Mrs Ninova is in the following. Since she had provoked us to compete with our diplomas, I would like to ask her to make a comparison between generic medicines and non-proprietary international names. I also want you to try to give an answer in this comparison, why are non-proprietary drugs not patented? Why didn't she finish the procedure on them? [[Reply from the National Representative Nigyar Jaffer.]] I also want you to make a commitment to declare that your position is freely formed and fully in line with the arguments that the hearts here defend that it has no influence on other interests. So I'm provoking you for a declaration under art. 137 of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u22	Alas, unfortunately, I was not right that we had reached an agreement and I was not about the third word...................................................................................... You haven't learned your lesson, colleagues. That last statement gives me reason to say it. You have not learned the lesson that you were wrong, and again you are talking about using people's fears, about conflict of interest, I declare that I do not have one, of course, and that I have freely made the decision when I called the Prime Minister. But just because you behave like this means that in another situation, if there is no pressure from society, if there is no pressure from the opposition, you will again make such a wrong decision. That was disturbing. Obviously, this declaration of national consent, at least on your part, seems obvious to me. You say we've used people's fears. I ask you, colleagues in politics, when we insisted on paying the salaries of workers who were not paid by employers for three months, were we using these people's fears that they would not get their salaries? When proposing a recalculation of pensions, did we use pensioners for wanting to have adequate pensions on modern conditions? Well, if you're giving these arguments in politics, that means we don't represent anyone in this room. If you have a problem with young families, say: "You are using young people; in the case of the sick you are using their fears, get up and go home. If you are saying that in this Parliament, we should not be making a policy, that is why we are here, to make a policy. Each of us represents certain groups of people who sent him here because they believed him in the program, in the commitments, in the promises. We said, "We will protect the poor, the weak, the sick." Here we go. And the argument: You're doing it because you're messing with the fears is ridiculous. The argument should be, again I say: It is human, you have sinned. Yeah, we're wrong, we're aware, let's fix this national agreement. Health is a topic that requires national consent and you have ours. From now on, we're talking about a new model of health care, because obviously this one isn't working. No matter how much money we pour into it, it gives defects, does not improve the quality of health care. Let us stop with this struggle, completely unargued on this topic and sit together and work out the new model of health system in Bulgaria for one purpose only. "Every Bulgarian should have access to fast, quality and effective health care. Is that so complicated? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Sirakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u24	Madam President, honourable Members, some time ago, one part of this House voted in favour of a decision, another part of this House voted in favour of another decision. My motivation for today's vote would like to explain briefly with a medical example. We've all suffered from headaches. When we want to get rid of the headaches, we resort to some pill that releases us from the headaches. This pill has some ingredient and this ingredient for this pill is constant and never changes. But some people get the headache from this pill, other people don't get over it. Sometimes those who pass the headache of this pill pass away immediately, sometimes after a few hours, sometimes they need a second pill. What's the bottom line? That it's not the pill that cures headaches. There's some other mysterious inner ingredient that doesn't come from the pill, but it comes from the one who takes the pill. So it is very important to me what is the motivation of each of us, the faith when we make a decision. I voted for the moratorium last time, supporting it because I believe that this would lead to better health for those who need it. Now I will vote again with the belief of health for people and for them to have the necessary conditions to achieve the health they want, rejecting the moratorium. It doesn't matter what the decision is, it's what the intention is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u25	Thank you, Mr. Sirakov. Replies to Mr. Sirakov's statement? There are no lines. Are there any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote the Bill amending the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018. Prof. Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Cornelia Ninova, Mustafa Karadayi, Albena Naydenova and Volen Siderov on 20 December 2017. Colleagues, we're having problems with the voting system. Did everyone get a vote? Yeah. Vote 197 MPs: for 197, against and abstention there is no. [[(Applause from GERB, BSP for Bulgaria]] Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'm proposing a procedure under art. 80, para. Second sentence of the Rules. Since the first discussion of this Bill was not stated that proposals for amendment or supplement will be made in the text adopted at first reading and the vote has shown absolute consensus, I am making a proposal for a move at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u27	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We are voting on Mr. Kirilov's procedure. They voted 198 MPs: 198, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I'm going to read the Second Reading Bill. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. § 1. Paragraph 6 of the Transitional and Final Provisions shall be repealed. Final provision. The Law shall enter into force from 1 January 2018 Please, voting mode. Vote 192 MPs: for 192, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC BIBLES. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 10 October 2017. First vote was adopted on 23 November 2017. Here you go. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u28	Here you go, Mrs. Staneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u29	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Procedure on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Mrs Amelia Gesheva to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u30	Colleagues, I am voting on the motion for admission in this House. Vote 115 MPs: for 114, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister. Mrs. Staneva, continue the presentation of the draft text, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u31	The Council of Ministers submitted a second vote on the Draft Law amending the Public Libraries Act No 702-01-27 on 9 October 2017 and adopted a first vote on 23 November 2017. The Law on Public Libraries amending the Law on Public Libraries. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. According to § 1, there is a proposal of the MPs Vejdi Rashidov, Diana Sawateva and Emilia Milkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version in § 1: ................................................................................... Article 10 is amended as follows: Art. 10. (1) The Ministry of Culture shall establish and maintain a public register of public libraries by order determined by a regulation of the Minister of Culture. The register shall be public and shall be maintained in electronic form. (2) For entry into the register under para. 1 an application shall be submitted, which shall include data specified by the ordinance under para. 1 on the fulfilment of the requirements of art. 8, para. 1 and 2. (3) The application with the documents annexed thereto shall be sent by electronic means or submitted by electronic means. Where the application is submitted electronically, the requirements of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services shall be complied with. (4) The Minister of Culture or an official authorised by him within 14 days of the date of submission of the application under para. 2 make an entry and issue a certificate of entry or reasoned refusal of entry by notifying the applicant in writing within the same time limit. (5) Refusal under para. 4 shall be subject to appeal under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u32	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law and the text under § 1, which was presented as a proposal by the Commission, in the version of the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u33	"Transitional provisions." Proposal from the MPs Vejdi Rashidov, Diana Savateva and Emilia Milkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version for the name of the subdivision: 'Concluding provisions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u34	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of the name of the division proposed by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u35	Under § 2 there is a proposal from the National Representative Diana Sawateva, made in accordance with Article 2. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... Within three months of the entry into force of this Law, the Minister of Culture shall issue the ordinance under art. 10, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u36	Statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the text of § 2, proposed by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u37	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u38	Statements? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to make an editorial change and § 3 to sound like this: .................................................. Within one year of the entry into force of this Law, the Ministry of Culture shall provide conditions for acceptance by electronic means of documents required under art. 10. Just go to the front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u40	Not a bad offer. That's a good offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u41	- What's the line? There are no lines. Statements? There are no speeches. Colleagues, I am voting on Mr Nedyalkov's proposal for a change in the text of the importer of § 3. They voted 92 MPs: 26, against 1, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer of § 3, which the Commission supports. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. Thank you, Mrs. Staneva. Moving on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY PROTECTION LAW, No 702-01-36. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2017 and adopted at the first vote on 23 November 2017. Mrs. Atanasova, will you present? Please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission therefore considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on Protection of Competition. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 by proposing the following editorials: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106, para. 3 Finally, the words "in relation to the damage suffered' shall be added. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 107, para. 1 the words of the intruder shall be deleted. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 109, para. 2, p. 2 the words of the defendant shall be deleted. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 111, para. The second sentence before the word "Supreme" shall be added "In proceedings before the Commission, the limitation period shall not run, such as "Supreme." 5. Art. 113 is amended as follows: "Determining the amount of damage Art. 113. (1) At the request of the court, the commission shall assist him in determining the extent of the damage, where necessary for the protection of the interests of the injured person. it(2) Until proven otherwise, it is assumed that the cartel is causing damage. (3) If it is established that the applicant has suffered damage, the court shall award compensation according to the order of art. 162 of the Civil Procedure Code, even where, on the basis of the evidence available, it is impossible to accurately determine the amount of damage caused. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115, para. 2 texts before t. 1 is amended as follows: "Without prejudice to the right of full compensation where a co-executor is a small or medium-sized enterprise within the meaning of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Act, it shall be liable only to its direct and indirect buyers or suppliers where: 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117, para. 2 the words "or categories of evidence" shall be deleted and in para. 6 the word "supplier" is replaced by "supplier" can give. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 118, para. 4 and 5 the word "supplier" is deleted and para. 8 is out, as in para. 9 becomes para. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u43	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which the Commission also supports the wording of § 1, which was presented as a text by the Commission in the same version. We also vote on the text of the importer under § 1, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u44	By § 3, the Commission shall support the text of the importer...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u45	Colleagues, I will put the text of § 2 to the vote again, which was presented as a proposal for a text by the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u46	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, i.e. 1 point (b) shall be deleted and the letter (b) shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official Journal of the European Union. 32 before the word
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u47	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the text of § 3 presented as the text of the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u48	"Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. "Transitional provision." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u49	Statements? There are no speeches. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. We vote on the text of the importer for § 4, which the Commission supports. We vote on the text of the importer for § 5, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. Sustained. That's where we end up. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PREMIUM OF AND THE TERRITORY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA OF UNION AND ARMED FORES. It was distributed by order No 750-01-194 to the President of the National Assembly on 31 October, discussed for first vote. Mr. Popov, please come in for a presentation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I ask for a procedure in the Chamber to be invited to the Deputy Minister of Defence Mr. Atanas Zaprianov for this and for the next point.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u51	I'm voting on the motion for admission to the Deputy Minister of Defence's chamber. Please, the Quaestors, ask the MPs to enter the Chamber!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u52	Can I ask for a re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u53	We're adjourning the vote. We'll reschedule. Please invite the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber. We're voting again. I'm voting on the motion for admission to the Deputy Minister of Defense's room. Vote 88 MPs: 81, no objection, abstention 7. The offer is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe to the Defence Committee on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, issued by Decree No 750-01-194 of the President of the National Assembly of 31 October 2017. At a regular meeting held on 23 November 2017, the Defence Committee of the 44th National Assembly examined for a first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 November 2017. The bill was presented on behalf of the importers by Mr. Anatoly Velichkov, Deputy Minister of Defence. The main goal, according to the project importers, is to regulate the hypothesis of establishment in the Republic of Bulgaria of permanent NATO structures, which already exist in Bulgaria. In order to implement the international treaties in force for the Republic of Bulgaria and the country to fulfil its obligations under them precisely, it is necessary to take legal measures, namely the amendment and supplement of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of allied and foreign armed forces, which governs the entry and residence of armed forces in the territory of the country and also the responsibilities of national authorities in their provision. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Spas Panchev, Kolyo Milev, Georgi Andreev and Konstantin Popov. In their speeches, they supported the need for the Bill. Additional questions were asked regarding the deployment of U.S. forces in Bulgarian territory for the joint use of the polygon in Novo selo; will identification cards also be issued for passing through the Republic of Bulgaria armed forces? On behalf of the importers, Ms. Milena Marinova made clarifications to the Head of the Department of International Law at the Department of Legal and Normal Activities of the Ministry of Defence. Regarding the issue of the connection of the draft Bill with the deployment of U.S. forces on Bulgarian territory for the joint use of the polygon in Novo Selo, she explained that the status of the US forces on Bulgarian territory is governed by a separate act, namely an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States for Cooperation in the field of Defence. As regards the issue of identification cards of transit through the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria armed forces, Ms Marinova clarified that the proposed amendments and additions relate only to soldiers and members of the civilian component of allied or foreign armed forces, which are part of a NATO structure on our territory, as well as their accompanying dependents. Ms. Marinova concluded by pointing out that in the proposed changes with para. 4 of art. 39 There is an order to inform our country about the civilian component and the dependents who accompany the soldiers residing on our territory. The members of the Defence Committee said they would propose, if necessary, texts to clarify matters relating to value added tax exemption and to medical insurance for the servicemen, civilian component and their accompanying dependents. Mrs. Marinova replied that the tax relief is intended to establish a joint working group between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance and the issue will be regulated in subsequent documents. As regards medical insurance, the issue is regulated by the proposed amendments to art. 33, but stated readiness on the part of the importers to discuss the proposals. 20 Members of Parliament took part in the subsequent vote: 14 votes for the defence committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, issued by Decree No 750-01-194 of 31 October 2017 to the President of the National Assembly, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 November 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u55	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Who will present the Internal Security and Public Order Committee report? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u56	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, No 702-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2017. At a regular meeting held on 13 December 2017, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the abovementioned Law. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Defence: Milena Marinova On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Milena Marinova. In his statement, he noted that the proposed changes to the permanent Law regulate the establishment of our territory a permanent structure, a staff element for the integration of NATO forces, established in accordance with the North Atlantic Treaty signed in Paris on 28 August 1952, ratified by a law adopted by the 39th National Assembly on 14 July 2004, as well as a Center for the Study, Construction and Improvement of NATO's Crisis Management and Disaster Response capabilities, which has the status of an international military organisation. The proposed project ensures the implementation of NATO commitments as a host country of Alliance structures. The proposed amendments and additions to the current legal basis create a national legal framework for the strict implementation of the existing international treaties concerning the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in NATO and regulate the status of these structures and their members while they are in the territory of the country, as well as the obligations and responsibilities of our national authorities in their provision. The bill refers only to soldiers and members of the civilian component of allied or foreign armed forces, which are part of a NATO structure located in our territory, as well as their accompanying family members. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, unanimously with the vote 14........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u57	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Colleagues, I am opening the debates on the bill tabled for first consideration. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, No 702-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2017. Vote 92 MPs: for 67, against none, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE CONVENTION OF THE CASTLE BOEATRAPIES AND THE CONVENTION FOR THE FORGET OF USE, CALCEMENT, PRODUCTION AND TRANSFER OF PROVENOPECTION MINUTES AND FOR THE SUCH DESTINATION. Mr. Popov, please come in for the presentation of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u58	♪ I can't believe the Defence Committee on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention prohibiting the use, storage, production and transfer of landmines and their destruction, No 702-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 November 2017. At a regular meeting held on 7 December 2017, the Defence Committee of the 44th National Assembly examined the above-mentioned Draft Law, No 702-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 November 2017, by order No 750-01-214 of 28 November 2017 to the President of the National Assembly. The Chairman of the Defence Committee briefed the members of the committee on the order of the President of the National Assembly and made a brief summary of the proposed amendments and additions. The bill amending and supplementing the Implementation Act was presented on behalf of the importers by Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence. The proposed Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement aims at improving the regulations governing the activities of the disposal of waste products.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Convention on cluster ammunition was ratified by a law adopted by the 41st National Assembly on 10 February 2011 and is in force for the Republic of Bulgaria as of 1 October 2011. 3, p. 2 of the Convention, each State Party shall undertake to destroy or ensure the destruction of all its cluster ammunition as soon as possible, but no later than 8 years after the entry into force of the Convention for that State. For the Republic of Bulgaria the deadline is 1 October 2019. At present, a project is under way to destroy the Bulgarian Army's cluster ammunition through US funding and the selection of a contractor through the NATO Support Agency. It is possible the implementation of the project for destruction of cluster ammunition is outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The regulatory requirement to return to the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria the empty packaging and waste explosives and metals resulting from the destruction, given the texts in the State Property Act, will be difficult and in practice may hinder the implementation of the project. In connection with the above, the amendment and the Supplement of the Law, which enables the destruction of the cluster ammunition of the armed forces outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the company of the project, to dispose of the empty packaging and waste products from the process of destruction. In accordance with art. 9 of the Convention, each State Party to the Convention must take all appropriate legal, administrative and other measures to implement it. Deputy Minister Zaprianov pointed out that the proposed amendments and additions will not set a precedent and will only apply to cluster ammunition. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Vladimir Toshev, Hristo Gazhev, Kolyo Milev and Simeon Simeonov. In their speeches, they united around the need for the bill and said they would support it in the first vote in plenary. 18 MPs took part in the subsequent vote: 18 votes for the defence committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention prohibiting the use, storage, production and transfer of landmines and their destruction, No 702-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 November 2017 by order No 750-01-214 of 28 November 2017 to the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u59	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Statements? Mr. Simeonov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! 6 years and 2 months have passed since the ratification and entry into force of the Munitions Convention on 1 October 2011 and 1 year and 10 months remain until the deadline. Due to incompetence and lack of knowledge of the legal basis of the management team of the Ministry of Defence, supporting the NATO Agency for Maintenance and Acquisition, the procedure carried out and the contract concluded in 2013 was failed. The National Assembly adopted a Law on the Implementation of the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Storage, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines to Solve the Problem in 2015. In 2016, the company "Expal" received a refusal from the Interdepartmental Commission to issue a permit for the non-destruction of cluster ammunition. What does that say, fellow Members? The National Assembly now again, for the third time, must take measures to finally resolve this problem in order to destroy these ammunition and to be able to use the funds received from our American allies to remove and destroy these cluster ammunition. Honourable Members, the Parliamentary Group for Rights and Freedoms will support this bill, as this is extremely important for the destruction of these ammunition. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the last 20 years the Bulgarian Army What, though, are the consequences? This means that the necessary battle kit in the Bulgarian Army, which was in person, was shortened and rather decreased four times, and a significant amount of ammunition is released annually by expiration date. The warehouse base of the Bulgarian Army is crowded, which creates extremely prerequisites for undesirable events, such as those that happened earlier in Chelopere, Sevlievo, the Five-Face, Straldzha and elsewhere. The funds allocated for the utilisation of ammunition are extremely limited. Dear colleagues, utilization is not only an army problem, it is a state problem. In the face of the government, the right path and the necessary means must be found in order to fully organise the process of utilization in a licensed plant specializing in this type of activity. This is an extremely serious issue that we usually think of when the event happens. Then there are ways to limit the consequences or other events. Hopefully these measures that need to be taken and the experience that shows it not only with us in Bulgaria, but in neighbouring countries, when there is not enough well done utilization, events are happening annually that are extremely undesirable, including with the giving of human victims. My appeal to the responsible authorities dealing with utilization is: the necessary means that the Ministry of Defence must have are provided and, despite the lack of it, sufficient resources must be spent to complete the process of utilization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u61	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Are there any lines to Mr. Simeonov? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on the prohibition of the use, storage, production and transfer of landmines and their destruction, No 702-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 November 2017. 120 MPs voted: 120, no opposition and no abstentions. Sustained. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! In accordance with art. 80, para. 2 I propose that the bill be voted on at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u63	Thank you. I shall put the second vote to the vote. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Mr. Popov, please come in for a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u64	THE LAW OF THE amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on the prohibition of the use, storage, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and on their destruction It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." So far, text becomes para. 2. 2. The creation of para. 2: (2) In the event of the destruction of cluster ammunition of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, which is carried out outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, waste explosives, empty packaging and metals shall be transferred into the property of the person under art. 8, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u65	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law:....................................................................................................... They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of §1 of the Law on the report of the importer. They voted 123 MPs: for 123, against and abstention there is no. Sustained. Moving on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MOVEMENT OF THE ROAD, No 754-01-68. Brought in by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 4 October 2017. Mr. Ivanov, who will present him? Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Allow me a procedure for admission on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please be admitted to the hall: Mr. Veliko Zanchev "Deputy Minister of Transport," Mr. Damian Voynovski "Secretary General of the Executive Agency "Car Administration," Mr. Krasimir Tsipov "Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Interior," and Mr. Boyko Ranovski "Department of Road Police."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u67	I shall put to the vote the procedure for admission into the Chamber of the proposed persons by the President of the Commission. Vote 108 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 1. The proposal for admission to the Chamber shall be accepted. Mr. Letifov, please continue with the presentation of the text of the Second Voting Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u68	The Law on Road Traffic is amended and supplemented by the Law on Road Traffic. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u69	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. They voted 116 MPs: 90, against 2, abstention 24. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u70	According to § 1, there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced It's six. a document reflecting the date for carrying out the next periodic test to verify that the vehicle driving and towed trailer is allowed to travel on roads open to public use
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u71	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I never imagined we could finish the parliamentary year without another change in the Road Traffic Act. This could not have happened, and so I am happy that on the last working day you will have the opportunity to deal again with the Road Traffic Act. Now get to the point, guys. This Law was passed a few months ago at the first vote, as each Law with the relevant paragraphs, articles and proposals. Within the framework of the first and second votes, some of the paragraphs have been withdrawn because they have been inserted into another Law. The Ministry of Interior Act and another part has been changed cardinally. So is this text we're looking at right now. In the first version of the importers, it was described in which directives, which regulations should be met by the sign of initial technical examination. Our colleagues offer us the following text:............................................................................................................................................................... Colleagues, you all know that there are two places where reviews are carried out. One is the original DMV, and the other is the technical inspection stations. The conditions under which these examinations are carried out at both locations are fundamentally different. At the points of the DMV meet five requirements for a braking system for example, and at the points of annual technical examination there are 31 requirements. With this text we align the initial review at the DMV post with the one at the private points for annual technical examinations. This raises the relevant questions: with the adoption of this text the Ministry of Interior and the points of the DMV will change their activity? Will the reviews of the regulation by which the other points do so begin? Because we make them identical. The second question that arises here is the following. We say they should have a document certifying the date of the next review. It is clear to all of us that the date is the date before which you need to go to the review and not the date of the next review, which may again be an error in the text. I hope the importers will correct it, because if it is written down to you that you have to go to a review on December 21st, I think it's okay to go to December 17, 18, 19th, as long as it's before the date when your annual technical examination expires. So written in the text, it turns out that you have to go exactly on the date that your coupon was perforated. Another argument: now you have a sticker on the glass and a paper coupon, which is recorded on which date you are viewed. With this text is sufficient only the sticker of the glass, because it is recorded the year when you need to go to the review and you do not need to carry any other document. My question to importers is: is it practically so? Is the sticker glued to the glass sufficient for you to be a regular driver? [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] It's about Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u73	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? There are no lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u74	I asked a question. An answer must be given. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u75	There are no lines. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of § 1 proposed by the Commission. They voted 124 MPs: 69 against 4, abstention 51. The offer is accepted. Declaration on behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, with the conclusion of this session of the National Assembly, we are looking at one of the most important events for the country, the Presidency of the Council of the European Union from 1 January 2018. This is an extremely important moment for our country and the state for our place in Europe today and in the future. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] We, as a society, state, institutions, welcome the Presidency divided, confronted, poor, without the prospect of political normality and economic growth, compromised democracy and erotic statehood. The main reason for this is today's formula for management. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] At the beginning of the 44th National Assembly, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms came up with a common call for unity. The idea of unification was also at the heart of our election political agenda. These were also our main political messages for unifying patriotism in the face of the danger to the common. Those weren't just declarations. Taking into account the realities, the DPS warned that the division in society, the language of hatred, the policy of rejection, as well as the creation of unclear majorities without a value base permanently destroy democracy, trust in institutions and statehood as a whole. We expressed our will to support a clear programme for combating poverty and the demographic crisis, a programme guaranteeing Bulgaria's European future, a programme which, however, does not allow extreme radicalism and nationalisms to power. We have noted that at this strategically important stage for our country it is necessary to make efforts to ensure successful implementation of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union with the support of all nationally responsible political formations and with responsible work of all state bodies and institutions. We have called on us to clearly formulate those national priorities that are a condition for our future common development and to identify concrete measures for their achievement, to realise the power of union, the need to unite, to abandon political and party accounts and to restore normality to politics and government, to defend democracy, to ensure peace and stability. What did the biggest political party offer us? GERB failed to properly read the results of the elections and the political messages of the voters and because of the lack of will to take on and take on a responsible and dignified role given by the voters, offered an inadequate formula for governance, including, without any need, nationalists in power with which they lied to their voters, lied to the whole society, gave up their election management programme and took momentum along with the nationalists. Instead of putting an end to the division, to hatred, to destructive behavior as a whole, they left behind European values and cheated on their own cause, minimizing the European Presidency, endangering stability, democracy and statehood. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Today the situation is more than disturbing.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u77	Please, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u78	Power not only does not guarantee security and stability, it does not offer the necessary reforms, it does not create conditions for economic growth and prosperity, but it significantly increases its contribution to getting away from normality, as well as the erosion of democracy and statehood. I will not go any further to say that the government does not have a clear vision of governance and strategy for this. It's working on the trial principle. It's a mistake, it's a mistake, it's a mistake, it's a mistake, it's a mistake, it's a mistake, it's a mistake, it's a mistake, it's a mistake, it's a mistake, it's a They explain to us that one was in a hurry, and the other was not so much, without assuming that this only reveals the powerlessness of government. Thus today, instead of the achievements of democracy, we see hatred, aggression, division and opposition, erosion of statehood, stability, erosion of trust in public authorities and institutions, we see bad messages from government to society and to Europe. It is also evidence yesterday's decision to replace democracy by accommodating nationalism in the home of the symbol of democracy of Rakovski- 134. What state do we want 28 years after the fall of the communist regime? A state of nationalists, chauvinists, xenophobes, a state of hatred, aggression, division, opposition?! Or a state of unifying patriotism in the spirit of Levski's covenants for a pure and holy republic in which all are equal both Bulgarians and Turks and Jews and so on?! We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and our voters have a clear and firm answer. We are consistent for peace and prosperity in our homeland, for unifying patriotism, for everything that unites us and gives us common horizons. As a party sensitive to human rights and freedoms issues, democracy and the country's European future, peace and stability in the country and in the region, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is responding to any threat to democracy and stability. It can't be any other way. And let no one have any illusions of demeaning the role, place and actions of the DPS in the name of state and state! The DPS preaches tolerance and togetherness, but strongly opposes the destroyers of democracy and stability in the country! The DPS for this ideology pays a small price, but will not give up those values that make it a Euro-Atlantic, democratic and national responsible party. The MRF best appreciates the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Since its creation the DPS has focused on the Euro-Atlantic orientation of Bulgaria, it has contributed extremely much to the country's membership in NATO and the European Union. The DPS remains in history with the Bulgarian ethnic model, which provides and guarantees the peaceful transition. In all forums where we participate, all meetings with European leaders from the liberal family DPS have an active position on country priority issues such as Schengen, the Western Balkans, the Balkans as a whole, the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism and so on. Yes, for us, European Presidency is important, but even more important are democracy and statehood, peace and stability. They are a condition without which we cannot as citizens, society and state! It is a mistake to include nationalists in the government, it is a mistake for the Presidency to represent Bulgaria by nationalists, those who win elections by condemning the European Union and starting their election campaign in Russia. Today's mistakes can have severe consequences for the future of our country. The distance from normality brings the state and society back and accumulates a negative charge. Demonstrated stubborn reluctance to listen to the voice of reason, ladies and gentlemen of GERB, to understand the responsibility you bear in front of future generations, and to assess the seriousness of the situation, shows your inability to lead the state. This is proof of the lack of strategic goals and vision for their achievement, proof of short-term horizons for yourself. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Power means, above all, responsibility and the government cannot escape responsibility. In the context of democracy, politicians bear responsibility and cannot hide behind common phrases. Democracy is not a dictatorship of majority, but a balance between institutions, so that none of them will possess all power. It achieves this through a complex system of balances where power deters and each institution is restricted by other institutions. As always, the DPS will continue to work in the name of state and statehood, in the name of peace and democracy, for economic growth and prosperity! The DPS will work for an active civil society composed of free and active citizens! We will work to ensure that every active citizen and civil society are complicit in the formation of decisions and in the implementation of decisions made. Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I address all of you and all Bulgarian citizens with wishes for happy holidays, health and more reason in the name of the whole society, for peace and prosperity! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u79	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Mr. Letifov, please continue with the presentation of the draft text.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u80	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 101 the following amendments and additions are made: Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The provision of para 3 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 shall not apply in the event of occurrence or detection The creation of para. 4. The deficiencies and their classifications shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 147, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u81	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Slivensky, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! It would really be nice when we ask questions, representatives of the administration, I see a deputy minister, I don't know if there is an IA, an automobile administration, to answer the questions. Colleagues, we will be in the same situation where we were at the first point in just a few weeks, we will have to vote again on this bill for the reason that some people do not want to give answers, and you feel obliged to support the Law because you are of the majority explained! I'll tell you what this is about: at the moment art. 101 reads: Art. 101. (1) In the event of a failure or failure in a road vehicle which endangers traffic safety, the driver shall stop and take measures to remove it. In this case, if the stopped road vehicle is within the range of the road, the driver, when outside the vehicle, shall wear a retro-reflective vest. (2) Where the removal of the damage or malfunction on-site is impossible, the driver may move the road vehicle at his own motion to a place of removal, but only after taking the necessary traffic safety measures. In the current para. 3 the possibilities in which this thing cannot happen if this damage happens to you on the road. What is proposed at the moment is that this paragraph should be dismissed and made by a regulation according to art. 147, para. 1 The damage by which vehicles can be moved when the damage occurs on the road. The problem that is happening at the moment is that those that we currently have, which the Ministry of Transport has, listed in a regulation, are 185 damages in which it cannot, respectively, and others in which it can be moved. In what your colleagues have proposed is now the ban, for example I say, in the snow or in the rain, when your cleaners are not working, you can't move your vehicle now because you can't move it. At the moment, this thing is off, i.e. in heavy snow, in heavy rain, if your car is damaged on the road without your windshield wipers working, you can drive to the service or worse at night when your headlights are not working. You can't move the car to the garage at night if your headlights don't work. Now that we've made this change, you can travel to the nearest repair shop to fix the damage with out-of-work lights at night. That's what it's supposed to be, guys. Therefore, I really ask the representatives of the administration to give an explanation. Again, once again, these amendments that we make in a piece before Christmas, after Christmas, past New Year's Eve, past other holidays, lead to these nonsense that we accept, and which is worse, our society laughs. The good news is that they are not so fatal to the lives of citizens in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u83	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Svilensky, I will be very brief. With regard to the number of members listed in the regulation, I will not comment on the number is not 180, but does not matter the number. Why do we have to put them in a regulation? Because if we write in the Law all the requirements that are required by Directive, the Law will contain extremely many texts that do not belong there. We therefore say that a regulation will define them as per Directive. All these requirements will be recorded in the regulation and not in the Law, because at the moment the Law is very general. The law does not contain one tenth of those things that need to be written down. In order not to burden the Law so much, we write them down in a regulation. I hope you understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there a second line? I won't. Here's your coat, dear Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ivanov, it is! I agree that the Law may be much heavier, but, again, at the moment, the Order of the Ministry of Transport concerns 185, and you are offering 147, meaning you are not offering anything better. The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Interior, when they wrote the regulation, were referring to the directive to be adopted and took these things into account. You are now, reading this directive, proposing that they be limited. I told you two cases. Tell me what we're doing in this case: the car crashes, its headlights don't work, can it move at night? That's what people care about. Or is it snowing hard? Can he drive when the windshield wipers don't work?! That's what you're saying!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u87	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any other statements? I won't. We shall proceed to the vote of § 2 in the version of the Commission on the Commission's report. They voted 119 MPs: 61, against 4, abstention 54. The proposal is accepted, but does not comply with the quorum. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u88	Madam President, some of the Members have not been able to vote, so I ask for a re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u89	Please, re-election mode. We are voting § 2 in the version of the Commission on the Commission report. The necessary quorum for the text is 66 MPs. They voted 134 MPs: for 73, against 12, abstention 49. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u90	Proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 102, t. 1 the words "incompetent driver' shall be replaced by a person who is not a qualified driver or does not hold the relevant driving licence valid for the category to which the driving vehicle relates.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u91	Thank you, Mr. Hallilov. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal for a new § 3. They voted 124 MPs: 87, Against 14, abstention 23. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u92	According to § 3 there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, in agreement with the Minister of Interior, lays down, by regulation, the terms and procedures for strengthening the goods transported.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u93	I'm opening the debate. Here's your speech, dear Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u94	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I do apologise to you for having taken up almost every paragraph, but this paragraph is also new and has nothing to do with what was tabled in the first vote, in the sense, being optimised that some standards have been set out there. What's on the table, guys? It's about strengthening the cargo. At the moment, under Article 3 (1) (b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Member States may decide to apply the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The transport of goods shall not pose a danger to road users. (2) To be fortified and not dragged along the road. Short, straight and clear. This change is explained by colleagues with the synchronization of Directive 2014/47/EU, which concerns roadside inspections. However, this Directive concerns commercial vehicles, that is, we are talking about strengthening cargoes on commercial vehicles. I'll tell you what a commercial vehicle is. A commercial vehicle means a motor vehicle and the trailer or semi-trailer to it intended for the transport of goods or passengers for commercial purposes, notice, for commercial purposes, such as transport for a foreign account or for remuneration, or transport for its own account or other professional purpose. This is not about the mass case of road drivers. However, colleagues have decided to transpose Directive 2014/47/EU into the Road Traffic Act instead of the Road Transport Act. You now, like each of you as a guide, going on holidays for example skiing to Bansko, because you have not properly fixed your skis, that is to say you have not balanced them correctly on the car, you are subject to a fine of BGN 1500, because the Commercial Vehicles Directive is not only to strengthen the load, but it matters in which part of the car, where to be balanced, how to place it. Now we are putting all Bulgarian drivers under the hits of this Law to be fined from 500 to 1500 BGN because, for example, three more full passengers are sitting in the backseat and from three times 150 kg, the car in the back seat is 450 kg, which is not correct, but they will be subject to a penalty under this Directive and under this Law. Colleagues, the transposition of this Directive is not in this Law. The colleague from the Ministry of Transport can explain to you which Law should be transposed into the Law in charge of commercial vehicles. Road traffic covers all vehicles and you have no way for every Bulgarian citizen to know the rules for strengthening, the rules for the deployment of cargo. [[Radio.]] Because I see Mr. Manushev laughing, it probably matters how the ships are loaded, Mr. Manushev, doesn't it? [[Reply.]] That's right, because it can turn around. But when we're taking classes, they don't teach us how to strengthen the pallets, do they? They teach us how to strengthen our crates, skis, suitcases and so on. So this proposal is also not to this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here's your speech, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the Road Transport Act and the Road Traffic Act have in principle a common sign that they regulate the traffic of cars on the road. The Road Transport Act and its implementing regulations lay down the terms and conditions for carrying out public transport and transport on their own account, which Mr. Svilenski, the previous Mr. Svilenski, said. The subject-matter and regulation is specific and, for the most part, provides for a number of requirements that precede or follow the actual implementation of the services. The circle of obliged entities is also significantly narrower than that of the Road Traffic Act. The legal provisions of the Road Transport Act are covered by carriers and drivers who carry out public passenger transport while all road users are covered by the Road Traffic Act. That is, the Car Transport Act details an activity which is essentially a commercial activity, which Mr. Svilensky mentioned earlier. So far, we have no differences, I hope. The strengthening of the cargoes carried by motor vehicles is an activity that is directly related to road safety, which determines and settles it in the Road Traffic Act. The subject of regulation of this regulatory act, as well as the objectives pursued by its adoption, are provided for in art. 1 reveal the legislative will aimed at ensuring the life and health of the participants in the movement. Loading is a natural extension of the overload system of motor vehicles, which is also provided for in the Road Traffic Act. This also requires that the systematical place is the strengthening of the loads in a regulatory act be in the same section in which the rules for the permissible maximum mass of motor vehicles are laid down. I hope, Mr. Svilensky, that you understand what I mean is simply business is something that we leave aside. Here we are talking about the strengthening of cargo, the maximum permissible mass of things that are generally recorded in the Road Traffic Act. I don't see what the problem is with doing this thing in a regulation and writing down the requirements under a directive in this regulation. Again, please, let's stop. Let's talk a little more expert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u97	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? Here's a line for you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u98	Mr. Ivanov, I have no problem speaking a little more expertly, but expert speaking from quoting directives, regulations and so on no one will know what this is about. You did not answer the question, which I asked a simple thing that concerns every Bulgarian driver. You propose that a directive concerning commercial vehicles should be synchronised and become valid for private vehicles. That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u99	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u100	What's not true? And I asked you: Tell me a citizen, a Bulgarian driver who has not properly placed his cargo on the car, as a result of this directive will be sanctioned by BGN 1500.? That's what people care about. And what exactly is written in the directive, regulations, letters, that does not matter at all. Practically how will this affect society? Because we are a body that regulates public relations through these laws that we adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u101	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Is there a second line? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Just to call Mr. Voynowski, or Mr. Tzipov, if he is here, because the text really raises disputes, let them take a purely expert attitude, say the opinion and really say what will happen for the people, so that there is no doubt about what we are voting on today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u103	In essence, that was not a line to Mr. Ivanov, but a call for an explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u104	Dear Madam President, Members of Parliament, my name is Damian Voynovski from the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration. The fact that by regulation we define the requirements for the strengthening of cargo means that it will apply to absolutely every cargo, we are talking about skiing and the like. But if the cargo is not actually strengthened properly, if it disrupts the balance of the car and is dangerous, of course it will be sanctioned. Just because the vehicle is not commercial does not mean that it cannot create a danger to road traffic and does not mean that it must not be strengthened properly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u105	Thank you, Mr. Voynowski. Dear Mr. Svilensky, I took the liberty of giving him the floor because you have repeatedly called for an explanation. Now I'm giving you an opportunity for a doppelganger, Mr. Ivanov. You won't take advantage. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u106	Thank you, Madam President, for calling and having an answer from Mr. Voynowski. Just, fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that from this tribune the Secretary-General of the Office of Automobile Administration is responsible. We are all aware that the Secretary-General, any agency, is not in the job of giving answers from the parliamentary tribune. We're a political body. I understand that in this case the most competent person in the Automobile Administration is the Secretary-General. This agency has a chairman, there's a deputy chief. Where are they? Why aren't they here? There's a deputy minister with a portfolio of automobile administration. Where is this Deputy Minister? Mr. Zanchev, my respects to you, but BDZ will be watching next year, now we're at the Automobile Administration. I say again: Mr. Voynowski is the most prepared in this room, and he himself said that what we accept will apply to skis and suitcases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u107	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting § 3 which becomes § 4 in the version of the Commission. Vote 117 MPs: 76 against 15, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. Before continuing with the next paragraph, honourable MPs, a group from Plovdiv is located on the balcony. Please welcome them. Welcome. [[Applause.]] Go on, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u108	According to § 4 there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140, para. The second sentence is amended as follows: The Regulation also lays down the cases in which the motor vehicles and their towed trailers, when first registered, are subject to an examination of their technical performance and their completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u109	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u110	Colleagues, two more paragraphs, I'll speak and I'll stop. Here it really is a paradox to see what legislation can lead to when rules are not followed. This is again a proposal between the first and second readings of the first paragraph and a proposal of a new member. And now I am reading to you what is voted on in the first vote, with what we are going to vote on now, and you can conclude whether there is anything in common between the two texts. What is proposed in the first vote: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 140, para. 2 words in brackets are amended as follows: In the case of new road vehicles and vehicles of categories M, N and O with registration in a Member State of the European Union, in another Member State, a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area or in the Swiss Confederation holding a technical examination document, provided that the document is still valid from the point of view of the frequency of intervals for carrying out the periodic examinations as defined in art. 147, para. The following information shall be provided in accordance with Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: It's about recognition of reviews. Now what the President of the Commission has read. I want you to hear somewhere Switzerland, the European Economic Community, whether I will read it: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 140, para. 2 in a sentence first after the words A sentence second is amended as follows: The Regulation also lays down the cases in which the motor vehicles and their towed trailers, when first registered, shall be reviewed for their technical performance and their completion in the specialized bodies of the Ministry of Interior. Tell me: did you hear anything in common between the first text and this text? There we talked about recognition of reviews, here we talk about the withdrawals and how these funds should be reviewed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u111	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u112	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Svilenski, I may not be competent in skiing and therefore I have kept quiet, but in particular in the legal technique I will allow myself to take an opinion and in the following sense. You, by analyzing the importer's proposal and seeing a description of the words in parentheses, are being amended as follows: "Should I ask you, what is this legislative technique, not to say tactics, to put the exceptions in brackets, with regard to the rule? And I see Dr. Milkov smiling, too. The Law on Legislative Acts does not at all say that there is such a legislative tactic the possibility of exclusion being in parentheses. Why do I think the Commission is making a more correct proposal from a legal and technical side? It is obvious that this is a matter that must be regulated on a legislative level with one rank below. Yes, it is a matter in which it must be detailed and case-by-case precisely in a regulation to list and indicate which are the countries of space, the Swiss Confederation, what is their document, how to review this document and what is its validity. Yeah, I take it legal logic, legislative logic is that. It's more dynamic matter. Let him move one rank down. As you have presented the problem, I think the legislative solution is becoming more precise than it has ever been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Come in for a second line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u114	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Svilenski, in addition to what Mr. Kirilov said, I would like to point out the following. The Swiss Confederation, the Parties and all others are added to the Ordinance that currently exists. Why do we have to write it down in the law when it's still in the Ordinance? Meet the regulatory framework, Mr. Svilensky, and then take part. I asked you for a more expert treatment of the Law. You don't do that. But at least don't waste time at the gym. Thank you. I'm saying again, it's in the Ordinance and at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u115	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u116	Mr. Ivanov, with you I will start the time of the hall you are wasting, not me. In this Law, this article I read, you wrote it, and you put it in the first vote, not Georgi Svilensky. Don't waste Georgi Svilenski's time. Mr. Kirilov, thank you, that was my intention to come and explain a little. So I did it because I wanted to provoke you, and you fell for it, and I thank you for that. To see what legislation you're proposing. Only two months or a month ago you brought this thing in colleagues from GERB, headed by Mr. Ivanov. He wrote it, I didn't write it. If you say: Svilenski brought it in, and because the legal framework should be at a lower, higher level, this is not like skiing, then I would be silent, but this is what Mr. Ivanov wrote. Critics aren't for me, okay? Why didn't you write it in the first version? Why are 20 paragraphs 15 out and 5 out? Explain that to me. And I'm not wasting time, you are, Mr. Ivanov, with your 79 traffic repairs. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u117	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any other statements? I won't. We are going to vote on § 4, which becomes § 5 in the version of the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 79 against 11, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u118	According to § 5 there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 5 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u119	I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the following proposal: the Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 5 be rejected. They voted 101 MPs: 83 against 9, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u120	According to § 6 there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 143 the following 1. The creation of para. 15a: The operation of the Kilometre-rearing motor vehicles shall be prohibited, except for the change of the Kilometre-rearing vehicle in the event of an established failure, which shall be certified by a declaration from the repairer indicating the date of the repair, the indication of the old Kilometre-rearing vehicle and the indication of the Kilometre-repaired. 2. In para. 16 the words "technical data' shall be replaced by "the technical data'. 3. In para. 20 words are replaced by the form and format.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u121	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. Honourable Members of Parliament, we are voting on the Commission's version of § 6. They voted 102 MPs: for 83, against 6, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u122	According to § 7 there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 7 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u123	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to drop § 7. Vote 98 MPs: 78 against 4, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u124	According to § 8 there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 8, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 147 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: supplied motor vehicles and their towed trailers and road vehicles with which attraction transport is carried out, with the exception of road vehicles of Armed Forces subsidiaries, special road vehicles intended to combat animal-powered fires and road vehicles, shall be subject to a mandatory periodic review to verify their technical performance. The arrangements for the examination of vehicles, with the exception of self-propelled machinery, wheeled tractors with a maximum design speed not exceeding 40 km/h and the trailers withdrawn from them, shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, in agreement with the Minister of Interior. 2. In para. 2 after the word "tractors', the maximum speed of 40 km/h shall be added. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The vehicle shall be subject to a periodic inspection of their technical performance as follows: 1. vehicles of category N1 and vehicles of category M1, with the exception of light taxi cars, camping cars and ambulances, before the end of the third and fifth year from the date of their initial registration as new, then every year; 2. light taxi cars and vehicles of category M2 and M3 with the exception of camping cars 3. trolleybuses and tram cars.. every 6 months; 4. vehicles of category N2, N3, O2, O3 and O4, with the exception of the campsites from whose initial registration no more than 10 years have passed each year, after which 5. every two years supposed vehicles of categories: (a) L3, L3e, L4, L4e, L5, L5e, L7, L7e and O1; b) L1, L1e, L2, L2e, L6, L6e 6. Ambulances, campsite-cars, camping-restores of category O2, O3 and O4, wheeled tractors with a maximum design speed exceeding 40 km/h and road vehicles with which attraction vehicles are carried out each year. 4. A new para is being created. 5. The time limits referred to in paragraph 1 shall be as follows: 3 does not apply to: 1. temporary braking of a vehicle due to a technical malfunction resulting from an accident and causing some of the damage and/or malfunctions under art. 101, para. 3 either in the event of a violation of the active or passive vehicle safety system; 2. modification of the vehicle structure related to vehicle safety or environmental protection or change of its category. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and in it, after the word "middle" the comma is placed and the level of noise is added. 6. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 7. Previously on AMC's... 7 and 8 become respectively. Eight and nine. 8. They're creating an al. 10? 14: The issued performance certificates and signs for a periodic inspection of road vehicles shall retain their validity when changing the owner of the road vehicle when they do not replace the plates with the registration numbers. (11) The Executive Agency shall keep a record of the periodic tests carried out to verify the technical performance of road vehicles. (12) In the register under para. 11 shall contain information on: 1. identification of the vehicle; 2. the indication of the kilometer indicator and the technical characteristics of the vehicle necessary for carrying out the review; 3. the person presenting the vehicle for inspection; 4. the inspection post at which the examination was carried out; 5. the date on which the review was carried out; 6. the chairman of the Commission and the technical specialist who carried out the review; 7. the results and conclusion of the review carried out; 8. a description of the deficiencies, if any; 9. the date for the next review; 10. the issued technical documentation of the vehicle. (13) The Executive Director of the Executive Agency 1. verification by the control bodies has shown that: (a) the vehicle has not been submitted for inspection; (b) the issued technicality documents do not comply with the category of the vehicle submitted for inspection; (c) the documents specified by the ordinance under para. 1 or false document or false document is presented. 2. the verification of the control bodies at the control points immediately after completion of the review has shown that: (a) the review has not been carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down by the ordinance under para. 1; (b) the review was carried out by a chairman of a committee or by a technical specialist who, at the date of the review, did not meet the requirements laid down by the ordinance under para. 1; (c) the review has been carried out with equipment, equipment, measuring instruments or instruments which, at the date of the review, did not meet the requirements laid down by the ordinance under para. 1; (d) the results of the review have been manipulated or the marking or seal of the equipment or equipment with which the review was carried out has been violated. (14) The order under para. 13 is subject to challenge under the Administrative Procedure Code. The challenge does not stop the execution of the order.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u125	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the text proposed by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: for 72, against 7, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Students from the second class of the National Chitalishte will greet us at the Club of the National Representative on the occasion of the upcoming Christmas and New Year holidays. The Club will then have the official ceremony of service of the certificates to the assistants of the Student Program for Legislative Studies in the National Assembly. All Members of the National Assembly shall be invited to attend these events. I'm calling a half-hour break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u126	I ask the Quaestors to call on the MPs in the Chamber to continue the meeting. I ask the MPs to take their seats so we can continue our work. Here you go, Mr. Letifov. We continue with § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u127	According to § 9 there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 9 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u128	Are there any statements on the text of the paragraph that has just been read? I don't see any statements being made. We're going to vote. We are voting on § 9 "The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 9 be rejected. Vote 77 MPs: 62, none, abstention 15. The quorum requirement shall not be met. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u129	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Since there has been a movement in this House and some Members have not been able to vote since they have entered, I will address you with a procedure to re-vote this paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u130	There's a motion to re-vote. Please invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber. We vote § 9. They voted 92 MPs: for 73, against 1, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u131	According to § 10 there is a proposal from the MPs Ivan Valkov, Boris Kirchev, Stanislav Ivanov, Alexander Matsurev and Radostin Tanev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 10, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 148 the following 1. In para. 1 the words "wheel tractors and their towed trailers' shall be replaced by "self-propelled machinery', wheeled tractors with a maximum design speed not exceeding 40 km/h and the trailers being towed by them. 2. In para. 2 After the words of the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency...................................................................................................... 3. In para. 3 the words.... that no procedure for bankruptcy has been opened for them, and... are deleted. 4. In para. 6, p. 4 a non-true document or a false document is finally added. 5. In para. 8 the word "Studies' is replaced by "Study' and a sentence is created second and third: "The period of validity of the authorisation can be extended by another 5 years if the person under para. 2 has applied for this before the expiry date and meets the requirements of para. 4. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications or an official authorised by him shall extend the period of validity of the authorisation within 14 days of the date of submission of the application. 6. In para. 10: (a) c. 4 shall be added at the end, or without having been reviewed according to the order of the ordinance under art. 147, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (b) c. 5 the Chair of the Committee carrying out the reviews or the Chair of the Committee shall be added after the (c) c. 6 words................................................................................. Each Member State shall ensure that the (d) c. 7 the Chair of the Committee carrying out the reviews or the Committee shall be added after the word (e) create a t. 9 and 10: Nine. when the chair of the review committee enters incorrect identification data of the road vehicle submitted to a review of the information system under art. 147; 10. when they have carried out a periodic test of the performance of a road vehicle of category for which the control point is not authorised to carry out periodic tests for the testing of road vehicles. 7. A new para is being created. 11: Not deleted from the register under para. 9 the chairman of the committee carrying out the examinations and/or technical specialists, where the request is made by the person authorised under para. 2 or by the person entered in the register if proceedings have been initiated in respect of the person concerned for deletion under para. 10, t. 3.. 10.... 10............................................................................. 8. So far, the Al. 11 becomes para. 12. 9. So far, the Al. 12 becomes para. 13 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 11 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 12. 10. So far, the Al. 13 becomes para. 14 and in it the words speak. 4 "8' are replaced by "the'. 3..10........................................................................... 11. So far, the Al. 14 becomes para. 15. 12. The creation of para. 16: In the case of para. 15, p. 4 before termination of the rights, the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration shall make an inventory of the documents for the certification of the technicality provided to the person and a comprehensive check of the activity of the point. The rights deriving from the authorisation shall not be suspended at the request of its holder where proceedings for revocation of the authorisation and the list thereto have been initiated pursuant to art. 148b.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u132	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will present briefly the proposal that we have made with our colleagues from the Political Party GERB concerning one omission in our legislation, which refers to the points for an annual technical review, where complex checks or checks have already started only on documents or on any other signal. Following the establishment of serious infringements which may lead to the suspension of the operation of this point, the owner of the annual technical review point is able in current legislation to submit an application to terminate the activity of that point and to terminate the verification itself, after which no administrative penalty can be imposed on him, and after one or two months the same point to be reopened, with the same owner but with another firm. In order to put an end to this vicious practice, which has existed for several years, we have made the relevant proposal, which was supported by the majority of the Members of the National Assembly at second reading in the Commission. I call on all Members of the National Assembly to support it and I believe that this is the right position of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u134	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Are there any lines to his statement? Here's a line for you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u135	I will take the attitude in the form of a reply, Madam President, but formally this is support for the proposal of my colleague Ivan Valkov. I will also ask my fellow MPs from BSP for Bulgaria to support this paragraph, but only this one. My request to you is, Madam President, if possible, al. 16 to be voted separately because we have the will and the desire to support this text. It is good, it is good, but in the context of other texts we cannot support it in full. My request is, and I'm doing a procedure for a separate vote on para. 16, to be supported by our parliamentary group, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u136	Are there any other lines to Mr. Valkov's statement? I won't. Do you want a hole? You don't want to. Any other speeches? [[Noise and lines.]] I would like to recall that the proposal is supported by the Commission specifically for para. 16, which enters into the proposal for § 10, which becomes § 8. [[Noise and lines.]] I do not see any obstacle to voting in particular. 16, although in the proposal supported by the Commission, this proposal is included and exists. You just want to demonstrate your support specifically in this paragraph? [[Noise and lines from SG to BSP for Bulgaria.]] There is no obstacle to this being put to the vote separately, although... [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, procedure. A separate voting procedure has been made. We proceed to the vote on the procedure made by Mr. Svilenski for a split vote and a special vote on para. 16 in § 10, which becomes § 8. We are voting on the proposal for a separate vote made by Mr. Svilenski. Vote 105 MPs: 92 against 8, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We vote § 16, the text up to § 16... [[Next clarification.]] We vote § 10, which becomes 8, to para. 16. They voted 101 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. We are now voting al. 16 in the version of the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u137	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u138	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 11, which becomes § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u139	Vote 101 MPs: 81 against 9, abstention 11. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u140	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 12, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 148b the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 2 the Chair of the Committee carrying out the reviews or the Chair of the Committee shall be added after the (b) c. 5 shall be added at the end by the order of the ordinance under art. 147, para. 1.................................................................................. 2. In para. 3: (a) c. 2 the Chairs of the Committees carrying out the reviews and the Chairs of the committees shall be added after the words (b) c. 3 words................................................................................. Each Member State shall ensure that the
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u141	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal in the version presented by the President of the Commission, § 12, which becomes § 10. Vote 92 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 16. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u142	There is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 150a, para. 1 is amended as follows: In order to drive a motor vehicle, the driver shall hold a driving licence valid for the category to which the motor vehicle he drives shall not be deprived of the right to drive a motor vehicle in judicial or administrative order, and his driving licence shall not be suspended in accordance with art. 171, p. 1 or 4 or in the order of art. 69a of the Code of Criminal Procedure and not declared invalid because it is lost, stolen or damaged.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u143	Statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the text proposed by the Commission to create § 11. They voted 97 MPs: 78, against 1, abstention 18. The creation of § 11 with the proposed text shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u144	According to § 13 there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 13 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u145	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 13 to reject the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 12, and shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 20. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u146	According to § 15 there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 15 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u147	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal to reject § 15 of the text of the importer, the text of the importer for § 16, which becomes § 13, and the text of the importer for § 17, which becomes § 14. They voted 96 MPs: 77, none against, abstention 19. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u148	Proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 171 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The following point shall be inserted (o) of the owner who drives a motor vehicle with a driving licence which has expired or whose driving licence has been declared invalid since it has been lost, stolen or damaged, and of the owner whose motor vehicle is operated by a person for whom these circumstances are present, until a valid driving licence has been submitted to the driver, but for not more than 12 months. 2. Point 2a is amended as follows: It's 2a. suspension of the registration of a road vehicle of an owner who drives a motor vehicle: (a) without an authorised driver, he shall not hold the relevant driving licence valid for the category to which the motor vehicle he drives, or after being deprived of the right to drive a motor vehicle in judicial and administrative order, or his driving licence shall be suspended in accordance with art. 171, p. 1 or 4 or in the order of art. 69a of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as of the owner of whose motor vehicle is operated by a person for whom these circumstances are present for a period of 6 months to one year; (b) with a blood alcohol concentration above 0,5 per thousand, and/or has used narcotic substances or analogues thereof, and if it is refused to be tested with a technical means and/or with a test to establish the concentration of alcohol and/or the use of drugs or their analogues, or has failed to comply with the prescription for a test with a evidence analyst or for a medical examination and biological sampling to perform a chemical and/or chemo-toxic laboratory test to establish the concentration of alcohol in its blood and/or for the use of drugs or their analogues, for a period of 6 months to one year.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u149	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I promise that this is my last speech today under this Law for this year as well. [[Private applause.]] Indeed, here with this amendment, we are correcting an injustice which was adopted at the beginning of this year, in the case of Karolev, if I may say so, by removing the registration of vehicles whose drivers have expired driving licences. In the context of the discussion and the Commission, some agreement was reached on how to resolve the issue. From the Commission's time until today, however, we find that what is proposed in the proposed text is also not very correct, so I allow myself to do... Now, colleagues, it is offered when your driving licence has expired, not to disable the vehicle, but to stop from moving until a licence is issued or for 12 months. What I propose to her is: in point. 2 letter "o" to drop the whole point, namely those drivers who have expired the certificate to be subject to sanctions under the financial penalty of 100 to 300 BGN in force before January. Since the proposed text will again create case studies and problems for the leaders, my proposal is therefore to drop out. There's no problem with the other texts. It's already distributed to every intruder what sanctions there are. Since I said it was my last speech, I take the opportunity to wish you happy holidays, happy New Year! To be wiser and in the New Year less changes in the Law on Road Traffic, Mr. Ivanov! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u151	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Come in for a statement, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Really, in art. 171 is the big key, and we at the Commission meeting have decided, in principle, to reduce this burden or to correct an injustice that was unserious. This general placing of all offenders under one denominator with different severity of infringements was not appropriate. I was going to suggest, at least in this version, to support the text, but what Mr. Svilensky has actually proposed, has his reason to be supported. I sincerely hope that there will be a debate in this House so that we can find the best solution. We all realized that in fact the text creates tensions, that it is not fair in this form, and we all worked together to look for a solution to this case on the principle of error. I will therefore also ask the guests who are here to join us, to find a good solution so that we do not have to make another amendment to this particular text in the Road Traffic Act. In addition, I will propose to the importers of this point. 2a (a), (a), (b), (c), (d), (d), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (g), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (g), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (g), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (g), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (g), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f),),),),),), (f),), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), That word has no place there, and so we give the law enforcement, how do I say, to bring down all these penal decrees. So I'm asking you to discuss it and solve the case. Let's not start again next year with changes to the Road Traffic Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u153	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the debate on this § 15 was very serious at the Commission meeting. There were different opinions, different opinions, but there was no single solution to be supported by the Commission. So I suggest we accept Mr. Svilensky's proposal to drop the item. 2 letter (s) for this text to be re-evaluated and introduced into the new legislation currently in force by the colleagues of the Ministry of Interior. I think it's the right thing to do. Let's not make any extra mistakes. To accept Mr. Slivensky's proposal to drop this part of the paragraph as Mr. Letifov's proposal for dropping out of I want to say one more thing. If Mr. Svilensky's proposal is accepted, he must be dismissed and § 16, Article 16. 172, because that's where we add the letter. Without it, the whole paragraph will be dropped. That's my offer. Thanks for your support. Happy holidays, everyone!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u155	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any other speeches? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u156	What Mr. Ivanov and Mr. Svilenski proposed is correct to say: from the Commission's proposal to drop out in § 15 t. 1, all of it. 1, and the correction of item 1. 2.................................................................. 2a to enter................................................................................................... After that, it does not have the right to use the right to use the right to use the right to use the right to use the right to use
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u157	Thanks for the clarification. It was important to hear once again, Mr. Letifov. Any other speeches? If there is not, we are voting on the creation of a new § 15 and the Commission text will drop the item. 1 et cetera. 2 (a) (b) is replaced by the following: (c) is replaced by the following: (c) is replaced by the following: (d) is replaced by the following: Right?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u159	Please, voting mode. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The offer is accepted. I will put to the vote the text of the newly born § 15, and again remind you that it has dropped the item. 1 et c. 2 (a) (b) has dropped out; (c) has dropped out; (d) has fallen out; (e) has fallen out; and (e) has fallen out; and (f) has fallen out; (f) has fallen out; (f) has fallen out; (f) has fallen out; (f) has fallen out; and (f) has fallen out; (f) has fallen out; (g) has fallen out; and (f) has fallen out; (g) We are voting on the wording of § 15. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u160	There is another proposal from Mr. Ivanov § 16 to drop out, because with such a change, it is logical to do so.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u161	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the motion to dismiss a new § 16. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u162	Proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 174 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 4 words.. the use of alcohol and/or narcotics or their analogues by the drivers of the motor vehicle, tram or self-propelled machinery, as well as by the participants in the.... are replaced by..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. The creation of para. 5. In the order of the Ordinance under para. The concentration of alcohol in the blood of road accidents and/or the use of drugs or their analogues shall also be established.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u163	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? I won't. We are voting for the proposal to create a new § 16 and the text of the new paragraph was presented by Mr Letifov. Vote 97 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 21. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u164	With the new numbering it becomes § 17. Proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 177 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 (a) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." which drives a motor vehicle without being able to drive without holding the relevant driving licence valid for the category to which the motor vehicle it drives or after having lost its competence in accordance with art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4 or after his driving licence has been temporarily withdrawn in accordance with art. 171, p. 1 or 4 or in the order of art. 69a of the Code of Criminal Procedure, or declared invalid as it is lost, stolen or damaged; (b) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." the owner, official or driver who allows or provides for the management of a motor vehicle to a person who: (a) not a qualified driver, does not hold the relevant driving licence valid for the category to which the motor vehicle he drives, or which is deprived of the right to drive a motor vehicle in judicial or administrative order, or his driving licence is suspended in accordance with art. 171, p. 1 or 4 or in the order of art. 69a of the Code of Criminal Procedure, or his testimony is declared invalid because it is lost, stolen or damaged; b) has a blood alcohol concentration of more than 0,5 per thousand and/or has used narcotics or their analogues; 2. A new para is being created. 4. A vehicle with non-strength load shall be operated in accordance with the requirements of the Regulation under art. 127, para. 4 shall be punished by a fine of: 1. 500 leva. in the case of identified minor defects in load reinforcement; 2. £1,000. in the event of significant defects detected in load reinforcement; 3. 1500 BGN. in the event of dangerous deficiencies detected in the load-strengthening. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5, and in it after the words "al." The following shall be added: 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u165	Statements by the wording of Paragraph 17? Mr. Letifov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This change, which the importers have accepted, and we voted, is actually here the word......................... again appears in art........................................................ 177, para. 1 letter (s), point (c), point (d), point (e), point (i) and point (i) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013. 2 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u167	Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I shall put to the vote the drop of the word..................................................................................................... 177, para. 1, t. 2. They voted 99 MPs: 74 against 2, abstention 23. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u168	Dear Mr. President, I am proposing that the same word be removed from the same article, i.e. 3 point (a) (ii) is not a qualified driver, does not hold the relevant certificate (s) to be issued.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u169	Are there any speeches? I won't. I will put to the vote again the drop of the word by § 17, art. 177, p. 3 point (a) is replaced by the following: Vote 89 MPs: 72 against 1, abstention 16. The offer is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of Paragraph 17 which was put to the vote by the President of the Commission, with the corresponding amendments which have already been voted on. They voted 98 MPs: for 73, against 1, abstention 24. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u170	With the new numbering, this becomes § 18 "The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u171	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of § 18, which shall be supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 75, against 1, abstention 14. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u172	With the new numbering, this is § 19. Proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 178a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 7. (a) c. 6 the words of the technical specialist shall be replaced by the chairman of a committee carrying out examinations or technical specialist; (b) To be created t. 7. "7." Chairman of a committee carrying out reviews which did not enter into the information system under art. 147 accurate indications of the kilometer indicator of the motor vehicle. 2. In para. 9 the words "Technical specialist" shall be replaced by the President of a committee carrying out examinations or a technical specialist. 3. The creation of para. 11: A person who carries out periodic tests for the testing of the technicality of road vehicles with appliances or equipment which have been violated the marking or seal shall be subject to a fine or a penalty of 3000 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u173	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of § 19, which was presented by the President of the Commission. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u174	Mr. Chairman, can you cancel the vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u175	Please cancel the vote. You have the floor for procedure, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u176	I'm making an offer, Mr. Chairman, first of all, Art. 178a, in point (a), (b) and (c) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article. 6 the words "supplier" shall be replaced by "supplied." There's this...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u177	Then the editing is done: to the words of the Technical Professional. The words of the Chairman of the Board of Reviews are added. Isn't that how it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u178	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u179	Do we have another correction, Mr. Letifov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u180	I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u181	Thank you. I will put to the vote Mr. Letifov's proposal in § 19 in art. 178a, para. 7 (a) (b) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 6 add to the words Did I read it right? Please vote on the amendment proposed by Mr. Letifov. They voted 91 MPs: for 69, against 1, abstention 21. The offer is accepted. I shall put to the vote the wording of § 19 with the amendments that we have just voted on. I'll remind you that in para. Point 7.............................................................................................................. is added to the words.............................................................. And to the end, the text remains the text the Commission proposes. Please vote. 90 MPs voted: 73, against 1, abstention 16. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u182	With the new numbering the text becomes § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20. With the new numbering, the next paragraph is § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21. With the new numbering, the next text becomes § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u183	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for paragraphs 20, 21 and 22 which the Commission supports. They voted 93 MPs: 69, none, abstention 24. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u184	With the new numbering, the next text is § 23. There is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 183 the following amendments are made: 1. In para. 2, p. Six is canceled. 2. In para. 3 t. 7 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u185	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of § 23 which the Commission proposes and which has been presented. Vote 80 MPs: 64, none, abstention 16. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u186	I ask for a re-vote, as some Members have failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u187	I shall re-vote the text of § 23, which was presented by the President of the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 77 against 8, abstention 13. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u188	By the new numbering, the next text will be § 24. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24: .................................................................................. Paragraph 6 of the Additional Provisions establishes points 71, 72 and 73: "71." "Significant faults, including load-strengthening', are deficiencies detected during verification, which have no significant consequences for vehicle safety or no significant environmental impact, as well as other minor discrepancies. 72. "Significant service', including when the load is reinforced, are the faults detected during verification that may affect the safety of the vehicle or have an environmental impact or pose a risk to other road users as well as other significant non-compliances. 73. "Dangerous vehicles', including when the load is reinforced, have been detected during verification failures which present a direct and immediate risk to road safety or have an impact on the environment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u189	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of § 24, which was presented as a text of the Commission by Mr Letifov. They voted 96 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 18. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u190	"Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. With the new numbering, the text of the importer is for § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u191	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division supported by the Commission and the text of § 25. Vote 96 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u192	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer on the name of the division and proposes the following version:
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u193	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the name of the section. They voted 99 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 18. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u194	Proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 27 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u195	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 27. Vote 100 MPs: 80 against 2, abstention 18. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u196	According to § 28 there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Pavel Hristov, Claudia Gancheva, Valentin Milushev, Boris Kirchev and Radostin Tanev according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 28 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u197	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 28. Vote 98 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 17. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u198	Under Paragraph 29, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of the paragraph, which by the new numbering becomes § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of: 1. Paragraph 1, § 2, § 4, § 5, § 7, p. 1 and 2, t. 3..................................................... 3, p. 1-4, t. 5 (a) and 5 (b) 6, p. 4-8, § 8, t. 1, 5 and 6 (in the case of § 13, § 14) and from now on with a new numbering.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2-4, § 19 (with new numbering), t. Paragraph 1 (b) § 20 (with new numbering), § 21 (with new numbering), § 22 (with new numbering), § 23 and § 24 (with new numbering), which shall enter into force on 20 May 2018; 2 paragraph 6, p. 2 and 3, which shall enter into force from 6 June 2018; 3 paragraph 7, p. 3..................................................... 3, p. Point (b) of Article 5 which shall enter into force from 1 January 2023 and shall apply from 1 January 2023.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u199	Are there any speeches? I won't. Colleagues, I vote on the Commission text for § 26 as amended by the numbering of the paragraphs proposed by the President of the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 75, against 2, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Thank you for presenting the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I may, I also congratulate my colleagues and all guests with the coming holidays. To wish you a lot of health, a lot of luck and more kindness. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u201	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Did you forget to wish for less changes in this Law next year or do you want to have a lot of work? Colleagues, we have another item on the agenda. Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR HELPING THE EARTH PRODUCERS, No 754-01-79, submitted by the National Representative Stanislava Stoyanova and a group of Members of the National Assembly. Here you are, Mrs. Taneva, to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u202	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, first of all, I ask for permission in the hall of Dr. Lozana Vasileva, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, and Tsvetomira Stykova, Director of the Rural Development Department.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for admission to plenary. Vote 89 MPs: 84, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the persons admitted to the hall. Ms. Taneva, please present the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u204	On 15 November 2017, a report on the Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Agricultural Assistance Act, No 754-01-79, submitted by the National Representative Stanislava Stoyanova and a group of Members of Parliament adopted on the first vote on 29 November 2017. The second vote. "Repair for amendment and supplement of the Agricultural Support Act'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u205	Thank you. Statements? There are no speakers. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 93 against 1, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u206	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 1 and propose the following wording: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) "7." the implementation of the measures of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2007 - 2013 as well as the measures and sub-measures of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 - 2020 under art. Article 21 (1) (a) and (b) 28, 29, 30, 31, 33 and 34 of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005, hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote the text of § 1 on the Commission report. Vote 99 MPs: for 98, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u208	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the National Representative Prof. Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... Article 9a is amended as Art. 9a. The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall, after prior consultation with the relevant departments, issue: 1. regulations on the application of European Union regulations in the field of direct payments; 2. regulations on the implementation of the measures and the sub-measures under art. under art. Article 21 (1) (a) and (b) 28, 29, 30, 31, 33 and 34 of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020; 3. Regulation on the terms and conditions of payment, reduction or refusal of payment or withdrawal of the paid financial assistance for the measures and sub-measures under art. 9b, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4. Regulation on the conditions and procedures for establishing artificially created conditions for applications for support by means of the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote the text of the Commission for § 2. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u210	According to § 3 the importer has received a proposal from the MPs Stanislava Stoyanova and Dimitar Gechev, which the Commission supports in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 9b 9h: Art. 9b. For the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, the proceedings before the managing authority or the State Fund shall be conducted by means of: 1. The integrated administration and control system, in accordance with Chapter 3 of this Law, for measures and sub-measures under art. Article 21 (1) (a) and (b) 28, 29, 30, 31, 33 and 34 of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013; 2. The Information System for Management and Monitoring of the Funds of the ESIS (ISUN), under the terms and conditions of the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Act for the rest of the measures and sub-measures. Art. 9c. (1) Preliminary evaluation of project proposals for measures and sub-measures under art. 9b, t. 2 shall be carried out when: 1. the amount of the financial assistance applied for under all submitted project proposals exceeds the available budget set out in the conditions for applying for the relevant procedure, and; 2. this is provided under the conditions for applying. (2) The Head of the Managing Authority of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 - 2020, respectively the Executive Director of the State Fund 2d, para. 2, appoint a committee which shall carry out a preliminary assessment of the draft proposals under para. 1. (3) Within one month of completion of the period of admission, the Committee under para. 2 evaluates and ranks the project proposals according to criteria and order set out in the application conditions. The Commission shall draw up a list of all project proposals indicating the number of points received for each project under each criterion. The list shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, respectively of the State Fund. (4) Candidates may object to the Head of the Managing Authority of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020, within 14 days of the publication of the list under para. 3. (5) The Head of the Managing Authority of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020 shall appoint a committee to examine the objections under para. 4. The Commission shall rule within 60 days of the submission of any objection and shall notify the relevant committee under para. 2. (6) On the basis of the preliminary assessment carried out, respectively, of the notification under para. 5, the Committee on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Sea, 2 prepares and publishes on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, respectively of the State 1. the draft proposals for the financing of which a budget is required which does not exceed by more than 30 percent the budget set out in the conditions for applying for the relevant procedure, including the draft proposals which received the same number of points; 2. all project proposals other than those mentioned in item 2. 1. Art. Nine years. (1) Procedure by selection of project proposals under the order of Chapter Three, Section II of the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act shall be carried out for the project proposals under art. 9c, para. 6, p. 1 to reach 110 percent of the budget. (2) The procedure under para. 1 shall be held within three months of the publication of the list referred to in Article 1. 9c, para. 6, p. 1. (3) The project proposals under art. 9c, para. 6, p. 2 shall be evaluated up to 110 per cent after evaluation of the project proposals under para. 1 and before their classification, and in the case of a residual budget up to 110 per cent. Art. 9e. The Head of the Managing Authority of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 - 2020, respectively the Executive Director of the State Fund 2d, para. 2, issue a decision refusing to grant grants to all other project proposals other than those under art. Nine years. Art. 9f. Following the signing of the administrative contracts, the Head of the Managing Authority of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020, respectively the Executive Director of the State Fund 2d, para. 2, issue a decision refusing to grant grants to the project proposals on the list referred to in Article 2. 35, p. 2 of the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, for which no contract has been concluded. Art. 9g. For preliminary activities eligible before submission of the project proposal, measures and sub-measures under art. 9b, t. 2, candidates for support who are not contracting entities under the Public Procurement Act shall apply the special rules for determining the contractor of Chapter 4 of the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act. Art. 9h. For the administration of measures and sub-measures under art. 9b, t. 2, State Fund.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote the text of the Commission for § 3. Vote 108 MPs: 80 against 28, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u212	Under paragraphs 4, 5 and 6, no proposals have been received from an importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 4, 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u213	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 4, 5 and 6, and the Commission shall support the texts of the relevant paragraphs. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u214	The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 10: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the Nine. establish that artificial assistance conditions have been created. § 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43a para. Four is § 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43b para. Two is § 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43c, para. 3 is
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u215	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I vote on the Commission proposal to create new paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 10. They voted 115 MPs: 114 against 1, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission in paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 10. Vote 113 MPs: for 112, against none, abstention 1. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u216	May I take the floor for procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u217	You have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u218	I am making a procedural proposal, Mr. President, please extend the working time to the adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u219	I put to the vote the proposal to extend the working hours for today until the bill is adopted. They voted 115 MPs: 85, against 25, abstention 5. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u220	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 56 is amended as follows: ..56. A valid application for assistance is an application which has received a unique identification number, which contains all mandatory application data under the single area payment scheme and the tied support schemes and has been processed and controlled by the State Fund
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u221	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of § 7, which shall become § 11 of the Commission. Voted 118 MPs: 116, no objection, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u222	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u223	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division. The Commission supports the text. 120 MPs voted: 120, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u224	Paragraph 8 is an importer. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... (1) The proceedings under the regulations on the implementation of the measures of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2007 - 2013 and of the measures and the sub-measures under art. 9b, t. 2 of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020 shall be completed in the current order until the period of monitoring has expired. (2) Applicants with applications for support submitted in periods of adoption before the entry into force of this law for which no order of approval or refusal has been issued may request a transfer of the application in a subsequent period of acceptance under the same measure or sub-measure under art. 9b, t. 2, under conditions and by order laid down in the application guidelines.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the Commission for § 8, which shall become § 12. They voted 125 MPs: 95, against 2, abstention 28. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u226	Paragraph 9 is an importer. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. The activities under art. 9g, which were agreed by the beneficiaries prior to the entry into force of this Act without applying the special rules of Chapter 4 of the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act for the designation of a contractor, are eligible under the conditions laid down in the Guidelines for the Application of the measure concerned or under the
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u227	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission for § 9, which shall become § 13. They voted 124 MPs: for 93, against 2, abstention 29. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u228	Paragraph 10 is an importer. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 10 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u229	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 10. Vote 118 MPs: 116 against 1, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u230	There are no proposals under § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u231	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 14. Vote 124 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u232	Under § 12, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the Law for the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds (prom., SG No. ...) in § 4, para. 3 of the Additional Provisions, the words "Free financial assistance under the programme under para. 1 shall be provided and replaced by the grant of financial assistance as well as payments, verification or certification of expenditure under the programme under para. 1 shall be carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission for § 12, which shall become § 15. They voted 123 MPs: for 123, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u234	There is a post pilo proposal from the National Representative Prof. Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support, namely: In Transitional and Final Provisions, §13 is set up: ...... 13............................ 13. The law shall enter into force after the approval of the notification of the changes to the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 - 2020 by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u235	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I ask for some more patience. With the changes proposed in the current Law in art. 1, t. Article 7 9a some of the measures and sub-measures under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 are envisaged. The adoption and examination of project proposals in order to harmonise the proposed procedures with the European Structural Investment Fund Fund Fund Fund Management Act to be done through application guidelines, instead of by the current order of the Council by regulations issued by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. Such an approach runs counter to the Rural Development Programme itself. In Section XV.3 of the Programme, p. 787 of this text is written: The Managing Authority is responsible for the awareness and awareness of potential beneficiaries and the general public of the priorities to be supported under the Rural Development Programme and the role of the European Union in the assistance provided. A detailed regulation will be published for each measure of the Rural Development Programme in the Official Journal. In other words, in order to achieve the objective desired by importers in the Draft Law, it will be necessary to amend the Rural Development Programme, which, however, requires a notification from the European Commission. In § 8, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Law which we are voting on states that applicants with applications for support submitted in periods of adoption before the entry into force of this Act, for which no order of approval or refusal has been issued, may request a transfer of the application in a subsequent period of acceptance under a measure or sub-measure under art. 9b, t. 2, subject to and order provided for in the application guidelines. For some of the investment sub-measures of the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, regulations on the terms and conditions for their implementation have been issued. On these sub-measures there are closed receptions, as well as launched but not completed at the present time. The initiated procedures for approval and payment of financial assistance for projects from the first example will continue under the same regulation, i.e. in a programming period the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry proposes to have a regulation and conditions for applying for the same sub-measure [[a line from MP Desislava Taneva]] . And guidance. Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. It is not clear what this requires, provided that the texts of the Rural Development Programme indicate that good practices from the previous programming period will continue. Criticisms on the existence of detailed rules laid down in regulations have not been so far by any control body at national or European level. On the contrary, good practices from the Rural Development Programme, namely the existence of administrative production, administrative contract and so on, have been introduced through LUSIFF in the operational programmes. I note that this year will end without admission under the Rural Development Programme. The indicative schedule has been changed three times a year. Why is that, it will remain unclear to me as well? I am afraid that the current amendments to the Agricultural Aid Act will slow down and make this reception even more difficult, because in order to realise their idea, it will be necessary to make changes, I am sure, in other regulations as well. I therefore ask that we support the proposal made under Paragraph 13 in order to allow the changes requested in the management of the funds under the Rural Development Programme to be prepared and qualified so as to ensure that our farmers are safely and timely funding their projects. Thank you for your patience. I wish all the bright New Year's holidays, health and well-being! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u237	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. You have the floor to speak, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has conducted communication with the European Commission. The Directorate-General for Agriculture and the European Commission confirmed their opinion that the texts in the Programme can be amended, updated and, in addition to regulations, add application guidelines. This has already been communicated, approved by them, tomorrow we have a Monitoring Committee scheduled for the Programme, in which they will also take part, we will propose this proposal. It is important to note that the form of the document under which the application conditions will be defined is entirely from the authority of the Member State and does not constitute a problem. In this regard, we propose in a timely manner, together with the change in the Law, to make a change in the Programme, which is purely formal. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Minister. Here you go, Mr. Danchev. [[Replyes: "He has already spoken! "]] You're entitled to a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me a very brief procedure. We really need to say that the notification of the Rural Development Programme is necessary, it is not as simple as it is presented to us. Again, even if it goes relatively quickly, there are other regulations that should be changed. So let us allow them to be really prepared as they should be, and not to question the possibility of successful implementation of the Programme in 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u241	Form this statement as a procedure. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u242	I think the receptions will be delayed if we do not accept our proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u243	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u244	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I feel impatient, but it is indeed a point of order and, in substance, regarding the promulgation of the legislation. I would like to say, in connection with this proposal, that it cannot be published in the Official Journal and cannot be implemented, unfortunately, because the Law on Legislative Acts clearly provides how and when they enter into force. In the present case, an act with a deferred notification cannot be promulgated and there is no way to publish the notification afterwards in order to determine the moment at which the act enters into force. Such a vocal legis does not have as an option and as an opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u245	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Perhaps this is what the Commission also meant as one of the conditions in order not to support the proposal. We're going to put it to the vote anyway. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 131 MPs: 46 against 70 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u246	That concludes the report. I wish health and success 2018 to all [[Applause]] !
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-21.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 45, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The National Assembly is on vacation from 22 December to 10 January inclusive. The next regular plenary session of 11 January 2018 at 9:00 p.m. I thank all those who have spoken today, especially those who have not spoken. Happy holidays, everyone! We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
