ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members, allow me to present to you the draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period 25 October 2017 including today's discussion of the Conference of Presidents: 1. First vote on the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and the Anti-Corruption Bill among those holding senior public positions. Exporters: The Council of Ministers on 6 October 2017 of one Draft Law, and the second "People's Representative Cornelia Ninova" and a group of MPs on 6 October 2017. 2. Report of the Temporary Commission on the identification of potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking waters in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens and a draft decision on the report. The report was submitted by the Temporary Commission on 29 September 2017, and by the Draft Decision "Gheorgy Kolev, Yordan Apostolov, Manol Genov, Polina Tsankova, Andon Donchev and Georgi Stankov on 4 October 2017. 3. First vote on the Food Bill. Importer: Council of Ministers on 26 September 2017 4. Projects of decisions on changes to Standing Committees. Importer: People's Representative Krasimir Velchev on 20 October 2017 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on sowing and planting material. Importer: Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications. Importer: Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act. Importer: Council of Ministers on 3 October 2017 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act. Importers: National Representative Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 4 October 2017. 9. First vote on the Law amending the Roads Act. Importers: People's Representative Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 13 October 2017. 10. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Civil Registration. Exporters: the national representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs on 6 July 2017 of the one Draft Law and the second representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 26 July 2017. 11. First vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business. Importer: Council of Ministers on 10 October 2017 We propose that this be the first point for Thursday, 26 October 2017. 12. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. Exporters: MPs Hamid Hamid, Danail Kirilov, Simeon Naydenov, Emil Dimitrov, Christian Mitev, Dimitar Lazarov and Anna Alexandrova, submitted on 5 October 2017. Adopted at the first vote on 13 October 2017. We propose that this be point one for Friday, October 27, 2017. 13. Parliamentary control. Please vote. Vote 186 MPs: 132, none, abstention 54. Our work program has been accepted. Proposal for inclusion in the agenda in accordance with art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we have one from the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Georgi Yordanov: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 53, para. 3 I propose that, on behalf of the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria, as a point in the Programme of the National Assembly for the period 25 October 2017 be included for the first vote Draft for Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions, No 754-01-51, as of 1 September 2017, submitted by the National Representative Anelia Klisarova and a group of MPs. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u2	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to make a suggestion: the device that is for the map to be placed a little more comfortable because there are people with strong left hand. Colleagues, the bill proposed by us to amend the Law on Medical Institutions concerns an addition to the provision under art. 106a, which cuts the subsidization of medical establishments by the Ministry of Health for their medical activities, which are intended to be financed by the State budget. As a result, medical establishments under art. 5, para. 1 of the Law on Medical Institutions, these are those who are subsidized by the State and are not commercial companies such as the Military Medical Academy, such as the Transport Hospital, such as the Hospital of the Ministry of Interior, are deprived of the right to receive a subsidy for important activities carried out by them. First of all, it is about the interventional treatment of brain aneurysms and arterial malformations in clinical path No 206, craniotomys indicative of trauma through modern technology, resulting in patients passing through these pathways paying between 24 and 30 thousand. lv. We propose that this be changed, as well as these medical institutions under art. 5 have the possibility to obtain subsidies for the activity which they have carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u3	Thank you, dear Assoc. Yordanov. The only reason not to be in the proposal for a programme is that the Bill has not been reviewed by the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is not mandatory, of course. Please vote on the proposal made by the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Georgi Yordanov to include a item on the agenda. Vote 183 MPs: 167, against 2, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, in proof that we are constructive and accept the good proposals of the opposition, I would like to propose that the bill be the third item of our agenda, because this is categorically in the interest of Bulgarian patients and their access to all medical institutions that provide highly qualified medical care. We call on the opposition to really include such bills on the agenda, because they will always meet an understanding of the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u5	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. It's always good when the government is constructive. [[Laughter]] Vote 192 MPs: 185, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. All points from third to third are rearranged one backwards respectively. Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday we witnessed an unprecedented protest of servicemen in Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The military pilots failed to meet the conditions under which they were forced to do their duty, namely [[cheering, cheering from GERB]] to serve Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u7	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u8	The policy of refusal and delaying the resolution of the security sector has led to the current situation. We are closely monitoring this process. We are solid with the demands of the servicemen and we believe that the people in the system and their needs are the basis for stabilizing the security sector. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u9	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u10	In accordance with art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we would like to include a point: Hearing of the Deputy Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u11	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 191 MPs: 82 against 28, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking for a procedure, first of all, a re-voting procedure. Please inform Mr. Karakachanov of our proposal to appear in the National Assembly to debate and to answer the questions raised by the MPs. Let's not hide behind the vote that just happened.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u13	Mr. Popov, you asked for this vote. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister has been notified. Stay calm! The procedure you want is different. You asked for this vote. I made a commitment to the Conference of Presidents. Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov have been informed. We are now voting another one, which Mr. Tsonkov asked for. Vote 189 MPs: 79, against 48, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. Messages. Draft and draft resolutions from 18 October 2017 to 24 October 2017: On 19 October 2017, a Bill was adopted to amend and supplement the Law on Blood, Blood Donation and Blood Transfusion. Importers: MPs Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Health is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 19 October 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act was adopted. Importer: Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. On 20 October 2017, a Draft Law on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Central America, on the other. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. On 20 October 2017, a draft decision for completing the composition of the Committee on Policies of Bulgarians abroad was received. Importer: National Representative Krasimir Velchev. On 20 October 2017, received also: Project for a Decision to change the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, importer: National Representative Krasimir Velchev; Project for a Decision to change the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media, importer: National Representative Krasimir Velchev; Project for a Decision to fill the composition and management of the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, importer: National Representative Krasimir Velchev. On 20 October 2017, a draft decision to complete the composition of the Defence Committee. Importer: National Representative Krasimir Velchev. On 23 October 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Technical Requirements for Products was adopted. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is leading; a bill amending the Law on Measurements. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. On 24 October 2017, the Financial Instruments Markets Act entered. Importer: Council of Ministers. Committees are about to be allocated. On 24 October 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Supervision Commission Act entered into force. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Deputy Minister of Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria shall inform the National Assembly that: First, in the performance of art. 65. para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its own orders has authorised from 24 October to 2 November 2017 the dispatch to four aircraft with their crews and, if necessary, the military, engineering and technical staff from the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria by means of transport, equipment, equipment and equipment for providing technical assistance and removal of the refusals of aircraft of the Bulgarian Air Force on the territory of the Republic of Greece for participation in the joint Bulgarian-Greek exercise. The passage through and stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of forces and funds from the Air Force of the Hellenic Republic for participation in the same exercise. The exercise is not related to the conduct of military operations and preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military activities conducted by others, another State or organisation of armed forces. Second, in the performance of art. 17 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its order has authorised the passage through the territorial sea, the non-military residence in the inland waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the visit of the port of Burgas to vessels from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Republic of Turkey, the Italian Republic and Romania from the composition of the second permanent maritime arm of NATO in the period from 27 October 2017 to 30 October 2017 including. The visit of the ships in Burgas is in connection with the implementation of the established timetable of the group. The notifications of these exercises and visits to foreign ships to the National Assembly shall be made available to the Defence Committee. The Court of Auditors of the National Assembly received: an updated annual audit work programme of the Court of Auditors for 2017. The programme was submitted by letter dated 24 October 2017. No 724-00-15, by the President of the Court of Auditors; Final Report No 066-200-317, with an opinion on the budgetary costs of the Bulgarian National Bank and their management from 1 January to 31 December 2016. The report was submitted by letter dated 24 October 2017. No 724-00-16, by the President of the Court of Auditors, containing an application for analysis and assessment of the need to amend and/or supplement the Public Procurement Act with regard to findings made in carrying out an audit. By letters of the President of the National Assembly, the materials are sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Legal Affairs and are available at the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first point of our program: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROCEEDING OF CORRUPTION AND FOR THE DEFINITELY ACCOMPANYING OF THE PROCEEDING AND THE LAW FOR THE PROCEEDING OF THE CORRUPTION WITH PERSONS LEARNING HIGH PUBLIC LOANS. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Chairman, if I may present the report, I would like to request a procedure to allow the Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u15	We are voting on the proposal made. 140 MPs voted: 138, none, abstention 2. Please invite Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Anti-Corruption Act and on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, No 702-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 October 2017 and the Anti-Corruption Act among senior public officials, No 754-01-71, submitted by Kornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs At its meeting held on 19 October 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, No 702-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 October 2017 and the Anti-Corruption Act among senior public officials, No 754-01-71, submitted by Kornelia Petrova Nino and a group of MPs on 6 October 2017. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva Minister, Mrs. Desislava Ahladova and Mrs. Evgeni Stoyanov Deputy Ministers; Mr. Plamen Georgiev Chairman, Mr. Ivo Ivanov Vice-President and Mrs. Antoaneta Tsonkova Member; Mr. Nikolay Nikolov Members from the Commission for the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests. The bill on countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, No 702-01-26, was presented by Mrs. Tsacheva, who pointed out that it responds to the need to create an effective body to counter organised crime by defining the mechanisms for combating corruption among those holding senior public positions. It is envisaged that a single independent anti-corruption body will be established on the basis of the current Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property by proposing that the Commission be involved in preventing and establishing a conflict of interest, the Centre for the Prevention and Countering of Corruption and Organized Crime at the Council of Ministers, the Court of Auditors unit related to the activities under the Publicity Act of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions, as well as the relevant specialized Directorate of the State Agency. An obligation on the Commission to accept and verify the declarations of property and interests and the incompatibility of persons holding senior public positions, to carry out checks on the property and to initiate proceedings for the establishment of conflicts of interest and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property shall be imposed. As regards magistrates, the order for submission and verification of their declarations by the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council shall be maintained, and if there is a discrepancy between declared and established facts of not less than BGN 20 000. The Inspectorate shall inform the Commission, which shall carry out an overall verification of the property situation. The circle of persons obliged to submit declarations and the circle of declared circumstances shall be extended. A declaration of property and interests at the place of the two separate declarations submitted so far is envisaged and the proceedings for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property is initiated when the inspection is completed with a report of non-compliance of more than 150 000 BGN. between the property and the net income of checks. An opportunity shall be created for alerts on corruption and conflict of interest, for the Commission to be able to carry out checks on a citizen's alert and to consult itself on a publication in the media where they are sufficiently specific and when the sender's anonymity is excluded. It is envisaged that the Commission will consist of five members, a Chair, a Vice-President and three members with a mandate of 6 without the right to re-election. It shall be possible for the President to be elected by the National Assembly by a simple majority on a proposal from the Members of the National Assembly and for the Vice-President and other Commissioners to be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Commission. A broad public participation in the election of Commissioners is envisaged in compliance with the principles of transparency, publicity and competition. It is proposed that the Commission may request the court to disclose banking, insurance and trade secrets in proceedings for the revocation of illegally acquired property. The anti-corruption bill among senior public officials, No 754-01-71, was presented by Mr. Krum Zarkov, who pointed out that the main objective of the bill is to establish an effective anti-corruption body as recommended by the European Commission. The Law establishes a National Anti-Corruption Office to operate in two main areas: collection, disclosure and verification of property declarations of persons holding senior public positions and investigation of corruption crimes such as official embezzlement, intentional idleness, the conclusion of a bad deal, bribery, trade with influence, etc. It is proposed that the overall management of the Office be carried out by a director appointed by a decree of the President for a period of five years to be assisted by three Deputy Directors elected by the National Assembly by qualified majority. Control of the activities of the National Anticorruption Office is also envisaged to be carried out by a permanent committee in the National Assembly. The bill provides that operational and search activities are to be carried out by the investigators and investigators by means of specific means and means, by means of special intelligence means, as well as by means of citizens who have accepted voluntary cooperation with the authorities of the service. The discussion was attended by the MPs: Dimitar Lazarov, Krum Zarkov, Pencho Milkov, Yavor Bojankov, Philip Popov, Christian Mitev, Hamid Hamid, Desislava Atanasova, Danail Kirilov and Yordan Tsonev. During the discussion, the people's representative Hristian Mitev pointed out that he would support the bill tabled by the Council of Ministers, noting that it is necessary to increase the numerical composition of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Mr. Popov said the Council of Ministers' proposal to unite several structures into a super body would not lead to good results. Mr Hamid stressed that he would support the bill tabled by the Council of Ministers, expressing reservations regarding certain provisions and said that he would make a proposal for clarification between first and second readings. Mr. Bojankov and Mr. Zarkov expressed concern that the proposed changes by the Council of Ministers would lead to abuse of power. Mr. Kirilov noted that he did not share the understanding of fragmentation and the alleged mechanical assembly of the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property with the Commission for the prevention and establishment of conflict of interest, pointing out that there is a functional meaning and coding element in their unification. Mr. Lazarov noted that the bill submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs does not meet the requirements of art. 28 of the Law on Legislative Acts, since it does not contain any financial justification for the establishment of a new office with investigative functions. Mr. Mitev pointed out that the Law establishes bodies with investigative functions, outside those mentioned in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in the Code of Criminal Procedure, and that it is more appropriate for this body to be elected by the National Assembly and not to be appointed by the President. Mr Hamid noted that he did not approve of the proposed way to elect the body, which is why he will not support the bill submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Mr. Kirilov said he would not support such proposals from the BSP for Bulgaria. After the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 702-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 October 2017, and with 7 votes for the National Assembly to adopt a Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, No 702-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 October 2017; and with 7 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 754 01-71, submitted by Kornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of national representatives on 6 October 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Next, a report by the Commission on the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Mr. Yachev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u18	Thank you, Madam President. I will read two reports separately for each of the submitted bills. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, No 702-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 October 2017. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Committee at its meeting held on 12 October 2017 examined and discussed at the first vote a bill on countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, No 702-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 October 2017. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice: Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov Deputy Minister; by the Commission for the Establishment and Prevention of Conflict of Interests Mr. Nikolay Nikolov, interim acting President, and Mrs. Katya Staneva, member; by the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property: Mr. Plamen Georgiev, Chairman, Mrs. Antoaneta Tsonkova and Mrs. Ivo Ivanov, Members. The motives of the bill were presented by Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov. He pointed out that the proposals made should help address the problems arising from the current fragmented legislation and respond to the need to create a more effective mechanism in the field of countering corruption on the high levels of power. It was pointed out that the Bill aims to protect the interests of society in two directions: by establishing guarantees that persons holding senior public positions perform their powers or duties honestly and respectfully in compliance with the Constitution and the laws of the country, and by preventing the possibility of illegal acquisition of property and disposal with it. The importers indicated that in the current legislation contained in a number of regulatory and sub-regulation acts, a major problem is the lack of a single anti-corruption body. In this regard, problems arise relating to the development of a single strategy in the sector, lack of a common approach, clear procedures, coordination and effective interinstitutional interaction. This Draft Law aims to achieve serious results in overcoming these weaknesses. The most important situations of the Bill include: extending the circle of persons obliged to submit declarations with the addition of entirely new categories of persons having public functions or powers to spend public funds; creating a new, permanent, collective and independent anti-corruption body, with strict schedules: structure, rules of choice, functions and powers in which part of the existing state bodies and structural units operating in the field of fighting corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. It is envisaged that anyone who has data on corruption and a conflict of interest for a person holding a senior public office may submit an alert to the anti-corruption authority, protection for the filing of criminal offences, and an imperative provision for not examining anonymous alerts. In order to enhance the effectiveness of the anti-corruption body, a power to carry out checks is introduced, by clarifying the grounds for their initiation, the deadlines and the results thereof. It has also been said that it is intended to improve the rules in the conflict of interest part, through more effective disclosure of corruption events, as well as to refine the provisions relating to liability under the law, including: the compositions of administrative infringements and the penalties envisaged. Attitudes under the bill took the following MPs: Boris Yachev, Spas Gurnevski, Milko Nedyalkov, Kristina Sidorova. After the discussion, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission with 6 votes in favour; without abstentions and 2 votes in opposition; proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, No 702-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 October 2017. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Anti-Corruption Act among senior public officials, No 754-01-71, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 6 October 2017. At its meeting held on 12 October 2017, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission examined and discussed for a first vote a Law on Countering Corruption among senior public officials, No 754-01-71, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 6 October 2017. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister, Mr. Nikolay Nikolov, Acting Chairman, Mrs. Katya Staneva, Member of the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property: Mr. Plamen Georgiev, Chairman, Mr. Ivo Ivanov and Mrs. Antoaneta Tsonkova. The motives of the bill were presented by the MP Krum Zarkov. It focuses on the main guidelines of the proposals made in it. The creation of a new effective anti-corruption body is the main objective of the legislative initiative. It is proposed to preserve the operation of the two currently active state committees, the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and the Commission for the prevention and establishment of conflicts of interest and, independently of them, the establishment of the National Office.. Anticorruption................................................................................ It was indicated that the new body would be headed by a director to be appointed by a decree of the President for a period of five years. The main areas of the new structure will be to collect, disclose and verify the property declarations of senior officials and investigate crimes under certain members of the Criminal Code. The investigations will be carried out by specialized staff appointed by the Director of the Office of Investigative Agents. Anonymous alerts are not envisaged. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Boris Yachev, Spas Gurnevski, Milko Nedyalkov, Kristina Sidorova, Simeon Naydenov and Ihsan Hakki. Questions were raised regarding the implementation of institutional control over the newly formed body and the proposed procedure for selecting a guide. Following the discussion, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission with 6 votes...................................................................................... and 2 votes...................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. And the reports of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill against corruption and the seizure of illegally acquired property, No 702-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 October 2017. At a regular meeting held on 12 October 2017, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, No 702-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 October 2017. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister of Justice. The main objective of the Bill is to create mechanisms for countering corruption behaviour, to ensure that persons holding senior public positions perform their duties fair and square, and to protect the interests of society by preventing and limiting the possibilities for illegal acquisition of property and disposal thereof. The bill is based on three law-making laws. The Law on the publicity of property of persons holding senior state and other positions, the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests and the Law on withdrawal in favour of the state of illegally acquired property. The proposed solutions are based both on the analysis of the existing institutional framework for countering corruption and on the study of foreign experience and recommendations of Bulgarian and foreign organizations working in depth on the problems of fighting corruption. The creation of a single anti-corruption body is envisaged. The Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The bill governs the principles and mechanisms for countering corruption behaviour of senior public officials; the terms and conditions for the declaration, verification and analysis of property status and legal grounds for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property; the conditions and procedures for establishing a conflict of interest; and the status and functioning of the Commission for the prevention of corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The circle of persons obliged to submit declarations is extended to those included in the scope of the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions, and entirely new categories of persons having public functions or powers to spend public funds are added. In order to provide more complete information on the property status of senior public officials, the circle of circumstances which they are obliged to declare is extended. The rules of declaration have also been changed. The questions concerning the proceedings for verification of the property status of the persons covered by the Law as well as the hypotheses in which it can be formed are also detailed. Special rules for checking magistrates are also laid down. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 9 votes for the Council of Ministers and 6 votes for the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, No 702-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers, proposed to the National Assembly a bill to counter corruption and to withdraw the illegally acquired property, No 702-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote. And: ♪ I can't believe on the Anti-Corruption Law among senior public officials, No 754-01-71, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 6 October 2017. At a regular meeting held on 12 October 2017, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Law on Countering Corruption among senior public officials, No 754-01-71, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 6 October 2017. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Dora Yankova. The main objective of the bill is the establishment of an effective body to combat corruption. The establishment of the National Office of Anti-Corruption is envisaged by bringing together the functions of the relevant unit of the Court of Auditors, related to the activity under the Publicity Act of persons holding senior state and other positions, and the specialized Directorate of the State Agency of National Security, related to countering corruption events among those holding senior state posts. The bill provides for two main directions in the activities of the new anti-corruption body. The collection, disclosure and verification of property declarations of senior officials and investigation of certain crimes under the Criminal Code. In order to carry out the activities, it is envisaged that the authorities of the national service have the relevant operational and investigative powers. The Director of the Office is proposed to be appointed by decree of the President of the Republic and to be assisted by three Deputy Directors to be elected by a qualified majority of two thirds of the National Assembly. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 6 votes in favour and 9 votes in favour, proposed to the National Assembly a Law on Countering Corruption among senior public officials, No 754-01-71, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 6 October 2017, not to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u21	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. On behalf of the minister of justice. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the implementation of the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021 and under the obligation in the sector to produce and propose to the MPs a new Anticorruption Law in the Ministry of Justice in a broad composition of a working group was drawn up the Law which we are currently discussing, adopted by the government and submitted to the National Assembly for debates and voting. In the preparation of the Draft Law, we have complied with the National Strategy for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption for the period 2015 - 2020, with the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary, as well as with the recommendations in the Report of the European Commission on the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism for 2017, where it is pointed out, I quote that the entire institutional structure for the fight against corruption in Bulgaria continues to be fragmented and for this reason largely inefficient. As a recommendation, the adoption of a new regulation to create an effective body for combating corruption is at stake. During the drafting of the Bill, we also held an account of the experience already gained in the previous National Assembly on the debates of the two drafts of Anti-Corruption Law submitted in the mandate of the Forty-third National Assembly. I will focus on some of the main points in the current Draft Law. The reports of the committees that discussed it were very detailed and comprehensive. The bill aims to protect the interests of society, first of all, by effectively countering corruption; secondly, by establishing guarantees that persons holding public positions fulfil their powers and duties honestly and honestly, subject to the Constitution and the laws of the country; and thirdly, preventing the possibility of illegal acquisition of property and disposal thereof. The objectives of the Law are implemented by means of the principles which are introduced in it the principles of legality, transparency, independence, objectivity and impartiality, which are expressed in increased responsibility of persons holding senior public positions, the publicity of the property of those persons, respect and guarantee of the rights and freedoms of citizens, proportionality of interference in private and family life, protection of information and sources of acquisition, and protection of persons who have submitted an alert for infringement, coordination and interaction between state authorities. The Bill details the circle of persons who hold senior public positions. It is proposed the creation of a new single, independent anti-corruption body, which in the Law is called the Anti-Corruption Commission and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The Anti-Corruption Commission is involved in the Anti-Corruption Commission, the Center for Prevention and Countering of Corruption and Organized Crime at the Council of Ministers, the relevant unit of the Court of Auditors, related to the activities under the repealed Law on Publicity of Property of Senior State and Other Positions, as well as the relevant specialized Directorate of the State Agency for Countering Corruption among senior state officials. The Commission's leading role in withdrawing illegally acquired property has been reported. In this way, it aims to create the necessary link between the functions of prevention of corruption, verification of property declarations, establishment of conflict of interest and withdrawal of illegally acquired property, and anti-corruption activities are strengthened by collecting, analyzing and checking information on and concerning information on corruption of persons holding senior public positions. The Commission shall be a collective body composed of five members. The President shall be elected by the National Assembly, on his proposal the Vice-President and the other three members shall be elected. The independence of the Commission is ensured through the proposed principles and procedures for its structuring, while at the same time there are guarantees of transparency, accountability, publicity of its activities. We believe that this procedure thus ensures maximum transparency of the choice, awareness and involvement of civil society in resolving issues of significant public interest, which is undoubtedly the formation and composition of the single anti-corruption body. The National Assembly will exercise control over the Commission's activities and its members will be obliged to report to the National Assembly upon invitation and to provide the requested information. The Commission will present an annual report on its activities in Parliament. In this way, public control of the Commission's activities is also ensured. The bill details the functions of the Commission, its authorities and the exercise of its powers. The functions are reduced to operational ones. The acceptance and verification of declarations, verification of received signals from citizens through media, carrying out property checks, proceedings for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The Commission will also have analytical functions.. drawing up analyses and methodologies, developing anti-corruption measures, which are provided to competent authorities to make binding decisions on them and to inform the Commission of the measures taken afterwards. The functions of verification of property declarations for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property will also be and are described in the relevant texts of the Bill. The Commission's authorities could, in general, be divided into two groups. The first is the directors of the territorial departments and inspectorates within them, or these are the bodies of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1. The authorities referred to in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 These are the director of the Directorate-General and the inspectors in it who carry out anti-corruption activities by collecting, analyzing and verifying information about corruption of persons holding senior public positions. Those bodies will include the specialized directorate of the SANS, which is proposed to switch functionally to the new body, along with the persons working in it. In our bill they are called "inspectors" and are in detail regulated the status and powers of the bodies under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2. The Law extends the circle of declared circumstances; the rules for declaring are changed; verification of the property status of persons holding senior public positions is introduced; the framework in the conflict of interest part is improved; the counteraction of corruption by revealing events of persons holding senior public positions is carried out through various functions and texts provided for in the Law. I would like to draw particular attention to the Commission's intended action to counter corruption by collecting, analysing, checking information about and concerning information on corruption practices. It is for this purpose that the relevant Directorate of the State Agency is included. This Directorate has the necessary administrative capacity to examine signals with evidence of corruption and to disclose such events. The main objectives of the operational and search activities of the Directorate will be: prevention; prevention; sanctioning violations of the activities of persons holding senior public positions related to corruption; acquisition of information and information, as well as disclosure of relevant corruption practices; preparation and storage of material evidence, funds and their provision to the relevant judicial authorities. Further down in the exhibition I will refer to where and to whom we propose to carry out the investigation of the collected and disclosed information. Conditions shall be established for checking the integrity of all persons holding public positions. The Bill binds the verification of property declarations in the proceedings for the revocation of illegally acquired property. The provisions relating to liability under the Law are revised. Effectiveness in the activities of embezzlement of illegally acquired property is increasing. A significant non-compliance is maintained to be that amount of discrepancy between the property and the net income which exceeds 150 thousand. BGN, as adopted in the National Assembly at the end of 2016 with amendments to the Law on withdrawal in favour of the state of illegally acquired property. The Commission is intended to adopt a decision to carry out a verification of the property status of persons when there is a discrepancy of not less than 20 thousand between the declared facts and the actual situation. lv. If this discrepancy is up to 5,000. BGN, then it is proposed to the National Revenue Agency (NRA) in the order of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (APC) to carry out the relevant actions. The bill details the order under which the illegally acquired property will be withdrawn, apparently signed and rules protecting persons who have submitted an alert for infringement. The results of the adoption of the Law on Combating and Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property I see in three directions. First of all, there is an integrated solution to counter corruption; establishment and withdrawal of illegally acquired property, as a priority in the efforts of the state to ensure equality before the law and the responsibility of senior officials. Secondly, an effective system is being built to counter and prevent corruption. Thirdly, there is a guarantee that those holding senior public positions will exercise their powers honestly and respectfully in compliance with the Constitution and the laws of their country in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. The Transitional and Final Provisions propose amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code, such as the Corruption Crimes under the Criminal Code, related to their execution by high-level officials, to be investigated by investigators who are part of the independent judiciary, and we believe that in this way the rights and interests of citizens will be fully guaranteed. In parallel with your proposals and presented by me Anti-Corruption Law, the Ministry of Justice has drawn up a draft amendment and supplement to the Penal Code, which has updated the compositions of many of the corruption crimes, including the extension of the circle of persons under art. 93 for officials within the meaning of the Criminal Code. It is envisaged not only in the public but also in the private sector to have criminal responsibility for corruption crimes committed. For the first time, trade with influence is incriminated, as well as a criminal liability is envisaged for persons who have been forced to promise or give a gift that is not followed, but when they inform the authorities of the investigation and of the prosecution in due time, they shall not be liable for criminal liability. I am ready in the course of the debate to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u23	Thank you, dear Minister. Justice Minister Tsetska Tsacheva presented to you the Bill of the Council of Ministers. Next up is the other bill. Dear Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor to present the second bill with importers of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! The fight against corruption on the high and medium levels of power in Bulgaria does not give the necessary results. This is a common shared finding of our entire society, as well as of international observers. One of the main reasons for this, we believe, and most observers believe, is the inconclusive and insufficient investigation of this complex crime, as well as the existing, unfortunately, I say, possibilities for unauthorised interference in the work of the investigating authorities. In January, at the beginning of this year, the European Commission delivered its monitoring report. Then all political forces, without exception, agreed that its recommendations should be met. One of them is the creation of a new effective body to combat corruption. Unfortunately, in the course of work on a new law and in the course of the debate, instead of effective, we started talking more about a unified one. Unity does not always ensure efficiency, as has been recalled and debated in the Legal Commission. Exactly because we felt that the focus of this new bill was lost, from the BSP parliamentary group we decided to draw up another option and present it to your attention. In our version, the main goal is to achieve efficiency. Effectiveness in this matter can only be measured in one way, the number and result of criminal prosecutions. In order to achieve efficiency, the new Anti-Corruption Authority must focus on itself only and only those powers that directly affect the fight against corruption crimes, and this countermeasure also contains the main, ultimately and most effective prevention. This means that operational and investigative potential should be concentrated in this body. Currently, with regard to senior officials, the elements have been scattered between several institutions, which have also been mentioned in the previous report. These are the Court of Auditors, related to the activities under the Publicity Act of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions, and the specialized Directorate of the State Agency of National Security, which counteracts corruption events among these persons. With our bill, we propose that these separate units be merged, but in a qualitatively new way and in full harmony by ensuring the operation of a new national office. This new national service will have two main areas of work: it will collect, disclose and verify the property declarations of the persons and investigate crimes under the Criminal Code. Exactly defined and comprehensively listed criminal groups. In order to carry out those activities, the bodies of the service should have both operational and investigative powers. The employees who will be directly entrusted with these special competences will be united in specialized departments, and their status must be aligned with that of the agents of the State Agency. In our view, the nature of this work does not imply a collective decision, much less the constitution of an authority on any quantum political principle. We need clear responsibility, operational autonomy and strict confidentiality. This confidentiality ensures both the efficiency of the work, namely that the investigation site will not be warned and protection from possible attacks against senior public persons for whom reputation is very important. The mere fact that the Commission or the Office is examining should not be grounds for a scandal. That's why this information shouldn't leak out. These bodies must work calmly, clearly and reach the final results to be submitted to the court. We therefore burden the director of this service with the overall management of the service in all its activities and to represent it in the necessary relations with other state authorities and institutions. In order to ensure its independence and independence, we propose that it be appointed by decree of the President of the Republic for a period of 5 years and only possible for a consecutive renewal. Common practice in Bulgaria has special laws based on art. 98, p. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to be entrusted with responsibility for key appointments in the Security Sector. This is because the constitutional position of the President, his direct democratic legitimacy and his unifying constitutional function bring out his appointed figures from the arena of political opposition. This is a guarantee that the institution concerned will not be subordinate to a party or to a majority. In this case, this is of particular importance. On the other hand, the Director shall have his own term of office and the restrictions on his renewal, as well as the detailed grounds for termination of his authority, guarantee his independence, including by the appointing authority. We propose that the Director be assisted by three Deputy Directors to take over the functions of the chapters 4 and 5 and 6 set out in the Law, namely prevention, verification of declarations and investigation. In view of their functions and in order to ensure balance and participation of all authorities, we propose that the Deputy Directors be elected by the National Assembly. This is where we experienced evolution in the course of our meetings. At first we suggested that this be done with two thirds of the MPs. For reasons of constitutionality, we propose that this should be by a simple majority. The Deputy Directors will be bound by the President's mandate and once elected will work as a team with him. We anticipated, again, as a result of the numerous discussions, a way of accountability to the National Assembly and to the institutions concerned. The investigation activity is the key element that distinguishes our bill from that presented by the government. This activity is concentrated on certain crimes, which in criminal law theory and practice are characterized as corrupt. These are: the official embezzlement; the deliberate idleness, the conclusion of a bad deal; bribery, including in the business sphere; trade with influence; mediation of bribery; individual crimes by service, as well as violations related to the frustration of prosecution. The criteria for defining them as such have been clearly stated in the reasons for the bill and have been generally adopted. They are also enshrined in a special order of the Attorney General, which determines which crimes should be reported as corrupt. In our view, the investigations into the crimes identified by the Bill must be carried out by the Director of the Office of Staff of the Office, an investigative agent. Investigative agents are required to carry out higher legal education and cannot carry out other activities. During the debates on the bill many times the question was raised about how the relationship between them and other bodies will take place, mainly those of the prosecution. We have clearly written in the Bill that the investigation is carried out under the order of the Code of Criminal Procedure and that is enough to determine the interaction and the way of work, as well as the place of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office in the methodical management of the investigation. As a result of the discussions, we also wrote, as well as the government's importers, a clear provision that prohibits the service from working solely and solely by an anonymous signal. However, the Office has sufficient authority to begin working on its own orders and to refer to it so that any corruption doubt can be placed on an objective analysis, investigation and, where there is material, it can be shaped as material evidence submitted to the court. Once again, we listened to the expert opinion and provided for the service not to have its own special intelligence means, but to use this operational method through the Special Intelligence Act, i.e. passing the normal procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! We are going to have a responsible debate or, more precisely, a continuation of the topic that we are debating together and separately in the media and at expert meetings for several months now. It is good that the two main political forces in Bulgaria identify the problem on the higher levels of power and have the will to deal with it. However, our understanding of what corruption is, what its character is, and how to effectively resist it is is different. I am also deeply convinced by my fellow Members that it is the Law introduced by the BSP that gives clearer and firmer answers to these questions precisely and therefore it deserves more trust from the MPs. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. People's representative Philip Popov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Corruption is a global problem. The first international conference on anti-corruption issues, held in the distant 1983s in Washington, has also witnessed this. The following conferences were held: in New York, 1985, in Hong Kong, 1987, in Sydney, 1989, in Amsterdam, 1992. In Bulgarian legislation there is no legal, legal definition of the concept of corruption. It's more political than legal. We have a full chapter on the crime of bribery and a definition of it, but the notion of corruption is wider than that of bribery. The Civic Convention on Corruption opened by the Council of Europe for Signing in 1999 defines the term "Corruption": The request, offer, giving or accepting, directly or indirectly, a bribe or any other unfulfilled benefit or promise of one that affects the duly fulfilling of certain obligations or conduct required by the recipient of the bribe, which does not benefit or promise such. In the Law of the Council of Ministers an attempt was made in one sentence to define this very complex and broad concept of corruption. Of course, such experience is doomed to failure, but it is indicative of the lack of understanding and seeking a real opportunity to limit this phenomenon. Once initially, even in the subject of the Law there is such a lack, the subsequent downward legislative structure is meaningless and a mere butaphory appears. In our bill, we have chosen another approach by not giving a definition of corruption, but we have described precisely and clearly which crimes, according to the current Penal Code, will be pursued by the anti-corruption body thoroughly and clearly. Before comparing the two bills, their main, principled differences, first, we should answer at least three questions, namely: what are the conditions for corruption? Who is responsible for these conditions? Which of these two bills would combat these conditions more effectively? Conditions favourable to corruption: Firstly, a lack of transparency in government decisions. Examples in this As an example, I can give the decrees for financing certain municipalities by unknown criteria. Second, large-scale public funds - and here are examples of a project - highways, NDK. Don't list them. Third, the presence of closed cliques and networks of our people. There are also many examples here, esteemed Members of the National Assembly, many gays Here the Gates in our gates are wide open. Fourth, limited freedom of speech or freedom of the press. Here are also many examples of the scandals that we witnessed in the SEM, the last decision of the Council of Ministers on the security facility, i.e. the fence along the border with Turkey, not to film, not to film, but after bragging about the exhibition part. That is, before digging tunnels under the fence, competing with Vitynya's, for example. The World Ranking of Reporters Without Borders (WITH) defines us 109th place in freedom of speech, shortly after us being Djibouti. Low-paid civil servants. I won't even comment here anymore. It's notary, it's common knowledge to all of you. For reference, see the protests in the Ministry of Interior. All these conditions are clearly there and we should now deal with the results of these conditions, i.e. corruption. But the question is, who created these conditions? Who had the opportunity to create them or to do nothing while they were created in one or another sphere of public relations? Isn't the government responsible for these conditions? Where is this opportunity centered on the possibility of corruption? Even according to the attempt to define the Council of Ministers, it is concentrated in power in the executive power, in the Council of Ministers, where national goods are distributed, where the knife and bread are figuratively put in the government. Here is now the same government, which is, by definition, responsible for the conditions for corruption, where the most focused is the possibility of corruption, offers us the Law with which we will choose the authority to control us, but not to pursue us, but only to collect and analyse us. The agencies established by us are ineffective and, in order to be more efficient and more effective, we will unite them into one body. It does not matter that these bodies have different functions and tasks, with different powers. The important thing is that the management we will choose, and they will together collect and analyse, and once a year will be reported to the National Assembly about how much information they have collected and how they have transmitted it to the Prosecutor's Office. Corruption, honourable MPs, undermines the effectiveness of the state, as the procedures adopted are being circumvented, resources are being wasted and employees are hired and promoted without reference to the work they are doing. Corruption comes from the Latin of Corumpo. I corrupt, corrupt, corrupt. In the most general sense, the abuse of the public service for personal use and, in particular, the conduct of officials by whom they or their loved ones benefit illegally and illegally by abuse of their authority. Therefore, the authority to combat this phenomenon should be as severe as possible, protected, independent from that authority, from the executive power. The law of the authorities, of the Council of Ministers, this is not because they practically offer the majority, which has chosen and supported them, to choose their controller. The results of this work can be summarized with the affair The Notebook Zlatanov. In view of the scale of the planned new body, the Tefterche will grow quietly and slowly in a few days on the scale of the new body. Moreover, the Law of the Council of Ministers proposes the return of denied and non-working practices regarding the establishment of a conflict of interest. Since 2011, a centralised system for establishing and sanctioning a conflict of interest has been in place in Bulgaria, in which an authority establishes the administrative infringement for persons holding a public office. As regards magistrates from 1 January this year, the functions were taken over by the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. With regard to government officials from the legislative and executive authorities, the project provides that instead of one body, the function of establishing and sanctioning conflict of interest will be entrusted to several hundred. These are: the Central Anti-Corruption Authority for the High Levels of Power and the respective bodies of choice and appointment for the low and medium floors. According to the current system, the Commission has the power to establish a conflict for all electoral and appointmentary positions in the system of legislative and executive powers, as well as for local self-government bodies. According to the Project of Governments for senior public positions, the proceedings for establishing and sanctioning conflicts of interest will be conducted by the new anti-corruption body, and for other persons holding public office from the low and medium floors of power by several hundred optional or appointment bodies. Thus, the minister will establish and sanction a conflict of interest for an employee in the ministry, the mayor of the municipality for the municipal employee, the mayor of the town hall, if he appoints him as an employee in the village and so on. This excessive decentralisation creates at least three specific risks: lack or insufficient expertise in smaller administrations to conduct these proceedings legally; diverse national practice in identical cases; and use of legislation for political purposes. In the past six years, the centralised system has been necessary and showed its advantages compared to the one in force in 2009-2011 decentralized, to which the Council of Ministers now proposes to return. This centralised system should be maintained where a single body establishes a conflict of interest for more than 115 thousand public office holders of all levels. Since the award of these functions to the new authority with regard to the persons under § 2 of the Bill would lead to its additional burden, the best option would be to maintain the existing institutional system. The terms of our bill are fundamentally different from that of the Council of Ministers. We have sought the maximum distance of this body from the executive authority and, at the same time, representativeness, accountability and opportunity for control by the National Assembly. Within the framework of Bulgaria's state structure, this maximum distance from power, from the centre of the conditions for corruption, is precisely the presidential institution, which, at the same time, given the way the President and his constitutional powers are elected, includes broad public support, and representativeness, but also lack of conditions of corruption, comparable to that of the executive. We have proposed that this body also have investigative functions, because only by analyzing and collecting information corruption does not fight. And it should be pursued with all state power by an independent body. At the same time, we propose that the Vice-Presidents be elected by the National Assembly and that this body be accountable for its activities and to the National Assembly. In the Bill proposed by us, we have found the balance between the effectiveness of the fight against corruption, the independence of the anti-corruption body, accountability and control by the National Assembly. Dear Members of the National Assembly, despite my feeling that for Bulgaria the moment of collapse of democracy has passed to kleptocracy, I hope that I will be disproved and that this may be the moment when the National Assembly will state whether it wants to actually fight corruption or the alternative remains, and it is the kleptocracy. We from the BSP for Bulgaria and we will continue the fight, regardless of today's outcome of the upcoming vote. I will finish my speech with one thought of Nietzsche: Corruption is the other name for the autumn time of a people. By adopting the Law of the Council of Ministers, you will proceed directly to the winter for our people. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people's representative Hamid Hamid Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We all know the background of the Anti-Corruption Act The first two failed. We hope that there will be no failure today and for all this, colleagues, we should thank GERB. Dear colleagues of GERB, thank you. We thank you because, Madam Minister, in the third attempt you have finally returned to the position of the DPS during the first bill. You have returned to the position of the DPS, so the bill will pass. We will support the bill. I thank you personally because during the final public discussion of the Bill we expressed a clear position on other controversial points and you withdrew them, and now they are not in the Bill. There are relatively few controversial moments left, Madam Minister. I hope between first and second readings we can remove them as well. However, I cannot fail to say for the third or fourth time that I already have this opportunity that I do not understand how in this bill you have admitted in art. 49 the so-called misunderstood protection of the person who gives the signal? How come, Madam Minister, the people in your office, the lawyers there didn't see that this text is not just contrary to art. 45 of the Law on Obligations and Contracts. Article 45 of the DPA is not an ordinary text. That's the pillar, that's the point of justice. Anyone who is guilty of harming others is bound to correct them. That's what they taught us at the university, and we're still teaching it here. What do you mean, the text of art. 49 in your project will say that someone will write a signal. It is possible to cause others such irreparable damage, to destroy someone's fates and to bear no responsibility at all?! How is that possible? Are there lawyers in the Ministry of Justice or, Madam Minister, has this text been intentionally placed? It would be better to be out of ignorance and correct it between first and second readings. However, if it is intentional, we begin to ask ourselves: who has prepared themselves with whistleblowers who can bring unpunished information against all kinds of faces? Is there such a preparation already? Because this is one of the few texts that suggest that the Law can be used as a political bat, as colleagues from other political powers are expressed. Colleagues, returning to the position of the DPS, you will receive our support, you will receive our proposals between first and second reading and let us make a good Law. Colleagues from GERB, this is a good step towards returning normality, but you are expected to make the bigger one to bring Bulgaria back into the European path, just throw the nationalists out of power. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u29	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr Hamid, the text of art. 49, para. 1 reads as follows: "A person who has given a signal of corruption or of a conflict of interest to a person holding a high public office cannot be held liable and suffer other adverse consequences only on this basis. " However, if it turns out that the information submitted by this person is false, that there is intent to slander, to insult, then on a general basis it can be pursued along the criminal route provided for in the State. If this results in adverse consequences, there is an impoverishment of the person against whom the signal is against, general principles and civil law, the general order.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 45 in the Criminal Code, as well as the texts of the Criminal Code, of course they will be applied. It's explicitly written in para. 1 that it cannot bear adverse consequences only on this basis, because we are obliged to create an opportunity for people who have facts and information, objectively, truthfully, unintentionally, in the way that you have shared. Indeed, there is such a danger of flooding the authorities with all kinds of information, but at the same time the money must be found between the protection of the person who provides the information and therefore we have provided only on the basis of the information, without ignoring the general order pursued both in criminal and civil ways. Of course, you are the ones who, between the first and second votes, are in your right to improve, if you think that the proposed version is not good enough, so we are hanging your actions, gentlemen and ladies of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u31	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This House deals with laws, bills or laws to amend laws. I also said in the Legal Commission that the proposed by colleagues is an idea project by BSP colleagues, but I would not call it a bill, although there is such a title. Nevertheless, I will take account of the content of this project. What do I mean? Essential contradiction on one main part of the contents of the Bill and the reasons in the Bill. In the reasons, honourable Members, the Bill of BSP colleagues states that the Director is assisted by three Deputy Directors, who are elected by a qualified majority of two thirds of the National Assembly. Anti-constitutional norm. This and colleagues developing the idea at an earlier stage, before bringing it to the National Assembly, said they were giving up this idea. The bill states that they are elected by a simple majority. Serious contradictions between the motives and the contents of the bill. And it contradicts the motives where something is indicated that is unconstitutional. We all know, the Constitution defines the qualified majority of choices, certain assumptions, I will not list them. Second, the Law on Legislative Acts in art. 28 has one para. 4 which states that a draft regulation in which no reasoning has been applied, respectively, according to the requirements of para. 2 or preliminary impact assessment pursuant to Chapter II, and for Draft Law or Code and reference under para. 3 shall not be discussed by the competent authority. The competent authority shall be the National Assembly. What does Al say? 2, p. 3? What the reasons and ex-ante impact assessment of the financial and other means necessary to implement the new arrangements must contain. What do we read in the motives and in the impact assessment? Yes, colleagues have said in Cost Analysis and Benefits that the Bill provides for the creation of a new body and the closure of duplicate structures. The costs of its initial construction, building fund and securing will not impose excessive burden on the state budget, as the subsequent current costs are proportionate to those committed to maintaining the units that will be closed. Yeah, but this idea that colleagues have the right to defend, they protect it, they convince us to create an investigative body, it's about a new investigative body, not the ones that are going to close down. By the way, the bill is written.. will be flown into. There's no way they're going to flow into a non-existent body that hasn't been constructed yet, but that's a purely legal term. What are these, honourable Members, the funds that will be needed for this new investigation body, am I speaking? I am not talking about where the structures of the SANS, from the Court of Auditors, will be transferred to this body. Of course it can't be said exactly. If you had at least recorded: significant, insignificant will be the funds for this body, provided for in the budget. Here is the second reason why the provisions of the Law on Legislative Acts, which we adopted at the end of the previous National Assembly, are not fulfilled and is clear para. 3, but not addressed by the competent authority. Let's continue with the contents. What are the corruption crimes that colleagues have planned to investigate? This is art. 306 of the Penal Code. Do you know what Article 306 says? No one who has offered, promised, or paid a bribe is punished if he has been forced to do so. Is this going to investigate this highly specialized body? Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 225c for punishing the person who offers a material benefit to a person who performs work with a sole trader or legal person, i.e. the second paragraph being reversed. Are these the high levels of power? ▪ Who proposed to a person who performs work in a legal person or in a sole trader? But in high places of power, they're all officials, aren't they? Yeah, there's a bribe. Art. 301, Art. 302 and so on. So, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh... Is it 225c But there is no art on the other hand. 212, document crimes related to the acquisition of funds through document fraud! On the other hand, they are not scheduled for investigation by this body of yours, the crimes related to the abuse of EU funds! They're gone, guys! You'll say we're going to add them up, yes, between first and second readings. What is provided for, honourable Members, in the Rules of Procedure? The President nominated a person, one month's term, on the website of the National Assembly NGOs can ask questions, take an opinion. The president's issuing a decree. Thus it is written, although this means that it may not issue a decree if it considers that there is enough negative attitude for this person. But further on, what is planned? On a proposal from the Director of the Office, the National Assembly should elect three Deputy Directors here in the text, with a simple majority. Yes, according to the same order on the website of the National Assembly, opinions, opinions are published, but there is no follow-up, which is a practice in this National Assembly, and it is also in the Rules, a hearing of these candidates. But he's nowhere! Will they be heard in committee, will questions be asked in committee, will the committee take this attitude, will it judge, will it suggest to the National Assembly to be or not to be, who will decide whether the requirements are qualified by internship, by cens and so on? There's no such thing! No transparency, no publicity. We're moving on. The fourth paragraph. The National Assembly shall examine the candidates for Deputy Directors not earlier than 14 days after the expiry of the term under para. 3. But when, dear colleagues?! He's going to look at them in a profile, in anfas, how's he going to look at them?! Is he gonna make a stand, what?! No sooner than fourteen days. And when will he accept them? Look at the Law of the Council of Ministers, Transitional and Final Provisions. The Director shall be elected no later than one month, the Deputy Directors and Members of the National Assembly no later than two months, the President shall issue a decree, appoint a Director, but there is no deadline for the National Assembly to choose, only to examine them. There's no deadline. No sooner than fourteen days. Well, is the organ configured, or is it not configured, even though it's single? It's not clear. In two, three, four, five, six, eight, ten months?! What is provided for in the Law of the Council of Ministers? The Authority shall be set up by the Committee when all members of the Committee are elected at the same time as the Chair, Vice-President and Members. It can't be any other way. There's nothing like this here, so the president can issue a decree, appoint a director of the office, and we'll be done here. The law does not oblige the National Assembly to produce the election within the time limit. Not to mention that a choice can be produced for two, for a third one may not be produced. So, will the organ function? Who is the appointing authority in the draft by colleagues? Yeah, that's what I call it, because we end up looking at it in the National Assembly. The Director of the Office shall appoint the directors of the specialized directorates. It is further stated that the bodies of the service are civil servants in the specialized directorates. Yeah, but here is also provided for separate specialized departments. So, these employees in these specialized solo departments, are they organs? The exception, of course, is recorded there. The government bill explicitly states who is the appointing authority of the committee. There's no such thing here. For the rest of the employees? Is the Administrative Secretary, Directors of Directorates or Down? It's nothing like that, dear colleagues! But look at the DANS Act, the appointing authority is the director of the DANS. Take a look at the Ministry of Interior Act there is signed, the Minister of Interior for which positions, down the other Directors of Directorates for which positions. Here it is written that the Director of the Office appoints only the directors of the specialized directorates. It is also written that the total number of employees in the Rules of Procedure is determined by the Rules of Implementation of the Law on a proposal of the Office. 22, para. 2. But nowhere in this Bill, nor in the Project, nor in the Final Provisions is it written that Rules are issued. Who gives this rule? The Council of Ministers? The director? There is nothing of the sort, honourable Members, see the Rules of Procedure and the Final Provisions of the Law of the Council of Ministers. Within one month of the adoption of the Law, regulations are issued within two months, and within so many months one person is issued. There is nothing of the sort here, dear colleagues! What else is written in this Bill? Where it is found that the non-compliance is not due to a criminal offence, the Office shall provide the data to the National Revenue Agency and to the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Service, coworkers who? The clerk from the second floor, third floor, first floor? The head of the territorial unit? Who? Not to mention how the office can determine that there is no crime committed, but it is the work of the prosecution. One more thing, fellow Members, I'm putting it down. You did not foresee for investigative agents as provided in the other bills and the Ministry of Interior Act that the distribution of cases is a random matter. Main obligation of the investigating authorities. Both in court and in the D.A.'s office. Who will distribute the cases? The way it's pretty much structured, the director might be, maybe the department heads. What does that mean? You know, 2011 and 2012 and the Co-operation Report on the Mechanism explicitly insisted that there should be transparency in the distribution of cases and that there should be a random basis. Well, you've predicted that there shouldn't be such a distribution of investigative agencies. My fellow Members, of all what I have said, I would not vote for the submitted draft or bill by my fellow Members, because, I repeat: the reasons are substantially contrary to the content first. Second, it does not comply with the content of the Law, art. 28, para. 4 of the Law on Legislative Acts. And in the Bill itself, yes, as an idea may be very good, there are a lot of gaps. Each in itself will say the colleagues, is insignificant, but in general, in the organization, in the activity, there are no rules, I repeated it. It's not supposed to be anywhere. The director's giving his orders. And the rules, as a regulation, are public. I would not vote for this reason for this bill. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. - What's the line? First line of speech "The People's Representative Bozhankov, second Danail Kirilov and third line of speech" Krum Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Lazarov, I really did not believe that you would make the statement about the impact assessment, you exceeded my expectations. I'm asking you to open the Election Code you entered. It won't take you long to read the five lines of impact assessment, the three words for the financial justification. Open changes to the PPC. In the Commission, we have spoken that there is no impact assessment and we are now adopting urgent changes to legislation in order to deal with the consequences. Open your ten bills back. Because if the purpose of your speech was to raise the standards, the level of the legislative process and to assess the impact, because it is justified and such gaps we have, and I do not deny it, but if the goal was this, you would say: colleagues, you have such gaps. Yes, we do. And you were going to say: we have even more grounded such gaps with us. Let us settle this further so that we can raise the level of the legislative process, but that is not the idea. Because if we do such an analysis and the little dignity and trust, if there is one left in the forty-fourth parliament, it will be crushed in front of the people. If we do this analysis, a bill under a bill. If you agree with each other, we can do it. The results will be unpleasant on both sides. So, my colleague, this is not the purpose of your speech at all. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u35	Second line, Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Lazarov, I agree with your speech, but I do not agree with the fact that you did not clarify why, despite all the shortcomings of the BSP colleagues' bill, he was admitted to consideration. I am opposed to these demonstrations, but this is the government bill, which is over 210 pages. This is the project of colleagues that we comment on, with importer Cornelia Nino 24 pages. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We had all the formal grounds for non-compliance. Please explain why, after all, we have also discussed the bill of colleagues from BSP. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u37	Mr. Zarkov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lazarov, I thank you for having entered into the analysis and essentially of the texts, and I hope to accept the Law at first reading, as there is something to say to each other. And the result may be clear. I will try to address your speech specifically. You're criticizing our list of corruption crimes. I tried to explain that he was not taken from the ceiling, but was taken from our legal literature and from the orders that exist to account for this kind of crime. On the other hand, in the Bill of Government............................................................................................. 108, the new Anti-Corruption (Anti-Corruption) is involved in countering terrorism. He'll deal with murder for a gain; he'll deal with abductions; he'll deal with pimping. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] ; will deal with illegal trade, without license, of arms. Major crimes, but they have nothing to do with corruption. Another difference. Our bill has listed a number of individuals who will be a contingent, possibly investigated by this body as much as they are in this Bill. According to your Bill or that of the represented by the government, every Bulgarian citizen, anyone, without any significance of the position he holds, can be the subject of the work of this Commission, through the confiscation procedure and the seizure of the illegal property. And the last one, we didn't sign the terms. In the current Law on Conflict Prevention of Interests, there is a clearly written deadline. If a member of the authority or chair is suspended early, he must be replaced by the relevant authority within one month. Three and a half years the Commission has been without a chairman since Mr. Zlatanov left. Her term has been expired for a year and a half. So we didn't write deadlines. We'll write, but it's more important to keep them. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u39	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Lazarov, come in for the back. Previously, at the invitation of the National Representative Iglika, our guests on the balcony are students from the 12th grade of secondary school Vasil Levski. Please say hello. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague of Bojankov, you haven't been listening very carefully. I said it wasn't necessary to write down a specific number. It was enough to write down the financial costs that would be further assessed or the financial costs that would not be incurred. That's gone. Yes, in the Election Code is written.... and there is no way to calculate it. You're setting up a new investigation authority, at least if you had recorded that there would be significant, insignificant, some financial costs. You didn't write that down. Even that word. As for your reply to the Law on the Judiciary...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u41	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u42	But there's another organ. There's a budget there. No other bodies are created by these laws. Understand it! You're creating a whole new body that a body, by the way, and we're going to talk about the quality of the bill, didn't want to talk for long, but you didn't even know what was going on by passing these investigations to your body with the delayed cases? What order are they going to finish? How are they gonna finish? Aren't they going to finish? So I said, yes, it's an idea, it's your idea. You have to stand up for her. You stand by it, you have your arguments, but as a bill, this is not a bill, colleagues who start working tomorrow. As far as Mr. Zarkov's line goes. But here, in this Bill on the creation of the new body, there is no deadline for them to be elected. It is written: The National Assembly is examining the applications! He doesn't listen to them! He doesn't ask them questions. He's looking at them. Pret a porte? We're going to look at them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u43	Mr. Lazarov, why did you allow the bill to be examined, there was a reply from Mr. Kirilov, when there was no impact assessment? This is done in the leading Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, on this line I in the Legal Committee did not make a proposal not to consider the Bill. I have argued why I will not vote on the basis of these contradictions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u45	Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, dear Minister! I will try to return the debate to the first reading on the philosophy of the two bills, as you attended the meeting of the Legal Committee. The arguments with Mr. Lazarov and I led them there as well. Today, however, we are facing the same crossroads and can take two paths. I have no illusions that this time both laws will be adopted at first reading, because this was clear from both the talking of the previous three months and the outcome of the National Security Advisory Council and the discussions in the Legal Committee that we held. You are offered two different philosophies of anticorruption laws. Two different relations to the same public phenomenon, harmful to the Bulgarian society, namely political corruption. It is a result of the accumulation of power resources in party-political elites that use this resource not according to the goals of growth and good governance of society, but to the accumulation of personal benefits that do not in any case have a monetary equivalent. The prerequisites for political corruption are many, but it is important that it is recently starting to reproduce political elites. He began to produce himself through new and new officials who conduct it over time. And today we are facing an important task of not only adopting a good regulatory text and giving our grades, not giving a good start to action by the future body, not only. Today we must give a signal and confidence to the citizens, who, believe me, are interested in the debate on Anti-Corruption Law. Confidence that the political elite today really wants to address itself a real working mechanism to help reduce political corruption. Because the people of Bulgaria are quite well already for one reason or another, for ten years they have been acquainted with the European Union's evaluation mechanism, and very sensitive would be if we took a formal approach if we took the path of least resistance and at least changed a mechanism that would not be effective. In my opinion, the disappointment of citizens will be great and the disbelief strongly. The questions are currently in two bills. With regard to the Law of the Council of Ministers, the answer is clear "almost nothing new!" Several already existing organs are uniting. There is no coincidence in society the question: what can these authorities do, which the prosecution and investigative bodies have not done so far? In our bill we are talking about the philosophy of the Bill, we are trying centrally to work the new anti-corruption body on two criteria. One is by subject, exactly named officials. Second in a particular type of crime. Now I will not draw my argument why I will support our Bill by what I want or what it seems to me, but I will quote three international conventions which, by virtue of art. 5, para. 4 have action in our country and we have to comply with them. The Criminal Convention on Corruption of the Council of Europe. There's no definition there, but it points to the compositions of crime. In addition, different categories of persons which the Convention refers to are subject to potential corruption actions. The UN Convention on Transnational Organised Crime. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 There is talk of criminalisation of corruption, that is, of compositions of crime. It is said that each State Party to the Convention should take measures to ensure the effective functioning of its bodies to detect and punish corruption. There's talk of penal coercion again. The Authority must be independent. And we come to the UN Convention against Corruption, which has been in force for our country since 2006. In this international document, even in art. 3 The question is that corruption is committing a certain type of crime, which are chronologically indicated in the document. The establishment of specialized bodies is envisaged. Specialized organs! They will investigate and enforce these specific compositions of crime. I can go on and on. The above is based in the best way the philosophy of our bill, namely that corruption is needed to be recognized as a crime, as a group of crimes, it is necessary to be investigated. But not only that. It is necessary that the authority that will carry out this activity, which citizens expect to impose any change, be equally distant from all authorities, according to art. 8 of the Constitution. Such an equally remote body, whether we like it or not, is the President. Among other things, I will conclude with the fact that every struggle that we are fighting must always be personalized. The new body must have its guides. To have, whoever is responsible and to crown success in the fight against this harmful phenomenon for us, political corruption. Thank you and I invite you to support our bill. And procedurally, I ask you to extend the parliamentary group's time proportionately. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u47	Please extend the time. Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I come before you to express the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs on the occasion of the two laws in question. It is undisputed that both have an important issue from a socio-political point of view. The attitude towards corruption as a phenomenon which we long and repeatedly condemn and which, as if, has not yet been found a rational approach, and not clearly defined the attitude of individuals who in both laws are regarded as a risk contingent, as factors involved, giving rise to or even who exercise, by definition, corrupt actions. In fact, during the discussion of the bills, familiar productions and clichés have come into use again. I would like to stress that from the words of the representatives of the United patriots, you will not hear swearing about what is happening in Bulgaria, as I appreciate the rankings for Bulgaria being one of the leading countries on the indicator of corruption in the socio-economic life. I do not find that this is the case, and the cited international acts say that corruption is a global problem and is of global importance. We would hardly stand in the front places on the quantitative dimensions of this phenomenon. But at the same time, the template, the cliche and the reflex work, that which does not support the two bills, or at least one of them, it is about corruption, it is against the fight against corruption, which is why it seems imperative to me the analytical examination of these projects, which will probably become more detailed, clearer and more justified by the second reading of the drafts and the support of the texts that could form a body, an institution that will give already real results in the fight against corruption. I also see a second risk, apart from the universality that I have already mentioned, and which you will not hear from the speakers from "United Patriarchs" it is a talk that would disprove the employees of the authorities who have been called and charged with fighting corruption so far. I think that we do not owe such an attitude, on the contrary, they have to take account of what they have achieved at the present time and use their experience, insofar as the drafts contain a proposal to unite them into a common body. The same people with the same experience will be leading in the fight against the phenomenon of corruption. But specifically on both bills. Dear colleagues of the BSP, your bill states ambitious tasks with formulas that disturb and which I would define as formulas contrary to the principles laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The principles of the criminal process as reflected in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Some disturbing moments in the Bill have already been mentioned, but I would illustrate my point by quoting in art. 48 of your Draft Law, which gives specific rights in the exercise of operational and search activities to the new body, which are limited to the following: making inquiries on information funds for persons holding a senior position, taking samples for comparative examination. Notice, t. 3 "Remarking of objects and objects, research of objects and documents, carrying out surveillance. Surveillance! Identification of faces and objects. Take a look at this. 7 of art. 48 The collection of information from technical channels of communication! Operational deployment, colleagues! Operating deployment! Taking an explanation from citizens. As operational and search activities are carried out by specific means and means by means of special intelligence means, as well as by means of citizens who have accepted voluntary cooperation with the bodies of the Office in the performance of functions. Excuse me, as a dignity of your bill, you're reporting that you've given up the anonymous tip. But without an anonymous tip, and with insiders, you're preparing to investigate an activity that only has data and any suspicion that it exists. Overtaking and violating the understanding that the investigation of crimes in Bulgaria concerns the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office that every Bulgarian citizen is involved in the investigation of crimes in Bulgaria. 31, para. 1 of the Constitution, has the right to be brought before the judiciary within the time limits set for this. Where are the deadlines going? Where are the guarantees going? Where do procedural guarantees go to register those procedural actions that you speak of in your Bill? After all, the Constitution prohibits the creation of extraordinary courts. From now on, this also applies to other bodies and institutions included in the judiciary system. The prosecution cannot be deprived of the responsibility and obligation to investigate crimes. And that it is a matter of investigating crimes that is quite obvious when the two laws resort to determining the subject of corruption, the subject of the Anti-Corruption Act by enumerating compositions of the Criminal Code. We're talking crime, clean trial! Not for anything else! From now on, my concerns are, of course, related to the application of this law by these special agents or investigators. Whatever we call them, they will be people with powers that are unknown at the time of the judicial investigation authorities who have a mandate to investigate crimes. Along with these notes, we have notes relating to both bills. The main concern and main commitment of the MPs from the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs will be the careful reading and participation in the consideration of the texts for second reading. It seems to us that the risk of affecting the rights of Bulgarian citizens in an irregular, illegal and unconstitutional way is there and should be avoided precisely in the procedure between first and second reading, for which we will monitor and make our efforts with the relevant proposals for changes and amendments. We will support the bill tabled by the Council of Ministers, under our belief that the moment to state the will to fight corruption has come anyway. However, one evil cannot be overcome by introducing security risks, for the rights of Bulgarian citizens, which in itself may be even greater evil. Everything must be decided between first and second readings and we must, for which we will try to make our proposals, be done in such a way as to create a sense of guarantees, a sense of security, a sense of equality between citizens before the law and before the judiciary. We will vote for the adoption of the Bill proposed by the Council of Ministers with the notes I made. Thank you. [[Single applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Notev. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u50	The replica form I use rather to answer the questions that you have asked, which are essential. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (iv) 48 provides for important operational and search functions of the body provided by us. These functions are necessary. Unfortunately, corruption, as you know, is one of the most difficult crimes to prove. The simple reason for this is that those involved in it and the giver and the taker have all the interest in the world to keep this relationship secret. The victim of corruption, society, business, the country as a whole, is a third country. It remains invisible in a process. That's why we need certain means of infiltration. What we have proposed here is what is being used at the moment by the services that are carrying out investigative and operational search activities. I mean, that's not new. As far as special intelligence is concerned, because you paid attention, I explicitly stress that in para. 3 of the same art. 48 of the Law, we have stated that the Office will use these special intelligence tools under conditions and in order laid down by the Special Intelligence Means Act. Finally, when you say where the deadlines go, where do the guarantees go? In the Code of Criminal Procedure! The entire investigation does not carry out according to the time limits, guarantees, procedures, methodological guidance and designated protections of the accused and investigated persons provided for in our Bulgarian Code of Criminal Procedure. Unlike the other Bill, which you say you will support, where there is no guarantee, where all procedural codes are applied one after the other, and can also be simultaneously and where they are jumped from one procedure to another, without you being investigated, ever to find out about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u51	Yes, it is!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Zarkov, you are right that the perpetrator of a corruption crime will make an effort to remain hidden to the public and to the authorities of justice. However, I can't think of a crime where the perpetrator is not either on such grounds. It's part of the game. It is not necessary, then, to bring out by type of crime individuals who commit a composite act and subject them to a separate procedure and a special investigation concerning their activity on the basis of which you have been accepted in your bill. See, when I express concern about compliance with the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure, what I mean and what illustration I see in your Law. 59 says so: For every action under this Law, the authorities of the service shall draw up a protocol, except where the action is certified by another document. How does that text sound to you as a lawyer? If the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure apply, documenting each action and drawing up a protocol is unconditionally necessary. What's the place and the role? How do I know that this Law says that protocol is drawn up, except when it is certified in another order? Obviously the importers, the authors of this text do not know that the actions will be carried out in the order of the PPC. If so, this text is completely redundant and untenable. These are my concerns, which I think will be justified in the practical activities of the authorities. They will also read the Law as long as the importers themselves are not aware or are not fully aware that the PPC is the applicable text. And one more thing. If this is the way you say it is, and these are the intentions, then let us leave the prosecution's authorities to be referred to in the order laid down in the other bill to do all the investigation work. That's their function. This is the Constitution's assigned mission in the fight against crimes. We have no reason not to trust the prosecution and the order established in the Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Notev. Any other speeches? Here you are.. the People's Representative Yavor Bozhankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The issue of responsibility for the sender has been addressed, but the most important is for the responsibility of the members and bodies of the Commission that you are proposing because you are also giving them special immunity. It is important to imagine the environment in which these people will work with regard to their responsibility, because it threatens with irreparable damage the personal and property interests of a very wide range of citizens. Since your bill contains notions such as a corruption event, a legitimate assumption of corruption and corruption, without being given clear concepts, this clarification will take place in the practice and the interpretation process will be at the expense of citizens who will pay a very high price for it. We discussed this at first reading in the Commission and so far it has not been clarified and there is no answer to this question. That's why I understand you're neglecting him. There is also no definition of which funds to acquire property are legal and which are not. There's a legal vacuum here. In such an environment, irresponsible employees with special immunity will work. Under art. 108 is provided that the verification begins with an act of the director of the territorial directorate concerned, but there is no definition, there is no clarification of the legal nature of that act, which follows that the order of protection by citizens is also unclear. That is to say, here is given almost a professional victory to the state and this body at the expense of citizens' rights and interests. Both in the context of the recent changes in both the SEW and with regard to the specialized court, I think that citizens will come across a fast and quite dangerous track where their means of protecting rights and interests will be significantly weak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Cartels, corruption, smuggling, the fight against these phenomena created over the years by all those who managed during the transition was our thesis and our struggle, which is why we are currently represented in the Bulgarian Parliament. But how do you imagine the fight against corruption, cartels and smuggling when we want to create another body where those who ruled while corruption was being created will appoint their next cousins, shrouding, stretching or all? How are we gonna fight smuggling when we hire people who are fired for bad results in the fight against smuggling? How are we gonna fight the cartels when it turns out some of them are on payroll with these same cartels? Talking so hard and with an aplomb talking from all of you on these topics about high-level corruption means that we are all convinced that on the highest levels of power there is corruption. Now that we're convinced that someone should come out and say who are the ones we're going to give the signals against, and they're the corrupt ones, so that eventually the barren, naked organ that we're trying to create again doesn't reveal them? Just to cover them up with another set of notebooks to show who should be punished and who should be covered. This, on the one hand. So what we're saying right now is that on the highest floors, and which are the highest floors? Naturally, the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers, these are not high floors, they are different floors. So we're looking for corruption somewhere else because there's no corruption in the Council of Ministers! Accordingly, the head of the Council of Ministers "the Prime Minister" is not corrupt. Then what are we creating this organ for? Let's say first and solve this problem. However, if we are absolutely assertive that there is corruption in the highest levels of power, respectively in the Council of Ministers, as one of the highest levels of power, then we are already entering the second problem. We are all announcing here that the people who have been elected again by those who ruled while corruption was created have created bodies and have appointed people who are absolutely incompetent. At the moment you are explaining that the Attorney General is not doing his job, which I absolutely cannot agree with. You explain that all the other bodies that you have created - Borkor, Conpi-Species, SANS and so on, these people, and also the organs themselves and the people are not doing their job. That is why I also disagree with those leaders of those authorities who attended the Advisory Council on National Security, they also disagreed with this and also made the so-called two draft laws and explained the most widely that the investigation in Bulgaria is being carried out by the Prosecutor's Office and disclosure is being done by the other law enforcement authorities. Since we don't want to admit where corruption is, for example, whether it's in the Council of Ministers or not, whether it's in parliament, whether it's in the agencies, since we obviously don't want to convince the head of the DANS, the Attorney General and the others that they haven't done their job, I don't see why you insist so much on making up some new body, which, you see, will already be with the same units that we'll take from the same authorities that you previously created, we'll take the footage from these units? Why don't you go out there and tell me who you're offering as the head of this body who doesn't have to do his next job? We will not support the creation of another yaw, barren body no matter who his boss is appointed by. We will support the Anti-Corruption Act, the fight against smuggling and the fight against cartels, because these are the main ones from our election program that we follow closely. We will not allow any more cousins and relatives to take the lead in one body, just to crush another awkward political opponent. Here I bring you and I saw that it was waving, it's very modern. This is the Law of the Council of Ministers. [[shows xerocopy in his right hand]] , and this is the bill submitted by BSP [[in left hand, pointing left]] . Actually, maybe I'm confused. [[changes specimens]] This is BSP's, and this is the Council of Ministers', but in fact none, because one is the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Waste Act. It's the same thing. Both laws are absolutely meaningless, both laws will not bring, they are the same as GERB and BSP. The same is life in Bulgaria, the same are people's pensions, the same is corruption, the same are health problems, education, police and army. Nothing changes, no matter how many times you turn around as governors with the support of some or other political formations. Therefore, I would ask you to concentrate, if you really want a job done, what I think has come to consensus with the President, let us create the rules, create this Bill, create these norms that will untie the hands, if someone is interfering with the prosecution, the DANS and the Ministry and other bodies doing their job, give them the tools, then take responsibility for the results they will or not do, and not create another barren, ineffective body for which in two or three years we will all find that they are not doing their job again, only that at another advisory council with the President will be present another chief of a service, which I do not even know how you think to call it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Are there any lines? There are no lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u59	There are no lines!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u60	There's a line. Here you are, Mrs. Taskova. You don't agree with something Mr. Mareshki said?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u61	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Mareshki, it is very difficult to answer all these questions the people present in this room or at least their leaders and superiors who make the rules, because when you created a system, you believe it works well. Even if you don't see that it doesn't work well for everyone else who chooses you, it works well for you and your relatives. So, you call on them to give incentives and to make the institutions in Bulgaria work, but if anyone wanted it at all, it could have happened twenty-seven years ago. Mr. Mareshki, you're the first to talk about corruption, cartels and monopolies. [[strong noise, laughter, applause from GERB and OP]] And the people who ruled us for twenty-seven years, whether on the left or on the right, didn't use those words before Europe forced them to make a law. So we can't expect it to be effective, regardless of which of the two laws we're going to pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Mr. Daniel Kirilov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the House, dear Mr. Mareshki! First of all, I would like to congratulate you with the split. Let me get to the line. I strongly disagree, Mr. Mareshki, with your interpretation of the organs and your tendency to repeat the indication that BSP is making. BSP has shown us here how corruption is only in the Council of Ministers and you are taking this thesis. Corruption is everywhere. You say it yourself, it's either gone or it's everywhere. I ask you to consider the following in your analysis, and it is that we do not, our aspiration is not to accumulate administrations, it is not to make artificial organs. We're trying to step on something that exists and has experience that has proven to work. We therefore bet on the basis of the Commission for the revocation of the illegally acquired property. I am sure that you, unlike BSP colleagues, distinguish all proceedings concerning corruption and their consequences. Please take these circumstances into account in your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u64	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Kirilov, Dear Mrs. Taskova! I'll start with Mr. Kirilov. I absolutely object! Rather, if you have the wrong impression that I have focused on the Council of Ministers, that is absolutely not the case. If BSP was absent from the hall, we do not repeat BSP's. We are only saying that if we are talking about corruption on the highest levels of power, the highest levels of power are parliament, agencies, ministries, regional governments perhaps. We should tell them where they are, but we shouldn't be looking for them in a community hospital. There could be corruption there. It's clear there's corruption everywhere. The point is that right now we want to create an organ that is for the highest levels of power, so I focused. We are now a Prime Minister's Republic. I meant the Council of Ministers, but it's not just the Council of Ministers. If you have not understood me correctly, I am talking absolutely about everyone, including Parliament, and I have even given examples of the fight against smuggling. Dear Mrs. Taskova, I see, regarding pluralism, we are patriotic Democrats. This is the Political Party.. Volya.. a gathering image of the Democrats in Bulgaria, of freedom of speech, of freedom of volition and of patriotism, of true patriotism and not of pseudo patriotism. That's what you noticed correctly. We can never reach the level and I want as a reply to Ms. Taskova: if you want to reach the level of the biggest in this area, the people in GERB to the leader, you must say: You, Mr. Mareshki, are the greatest! You're the only one who's struggling with smuggling! [[Radio, laughter, lines.]] You're the only one fighting the cartels! Only you, if your people vote on your trust, can fight corruption. This is what it would sound like if I wasn't here, and here was Boyko Borisov and someone from GERB had to praise him. I'm going to ask you to take an example next time with a bigger aplomb: I am the greatest! You're around me. I'll never call you back vocals. You know very well that in our parliamentary group we are absolutely equal. In our party anyone, to the lowest level, can speak as long as it has value and is useful for Bulgaria, the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u66	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. You've mixed a lot of things, the form of government of the state you've changed. Beck vocals was someone else's cue. Are there any other statements? Mr. Baychev, after the break of 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u67	Honourable Members, we are continuing the debate on anti-corruption legislation. Before the break the word asked the people representative Baichev. Here you are, you have the floor, dear Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Currently, we are looking at two laws of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and GERB regarding anti-corruption. I dare say that corruption as a phenomenon has existed since the first statehood and the first countries since they emerged. More Roman chroniclers have described such phenomena. Unfortunately, the Bulgarians have not left this phenomenon in ancient times. On the contrary, we have carried it in our time and we have become a kind of record holder, and we are first in the European Union on corruption and 75th in the world, which personally does not speak well to me about us as a nation. Why is this happening, why is this phenomenon present? Corruption is an environment where there are no clear norms in the country determining the work of officials and their relations with citizens. We have respect for the law and its rule of law, inefficient criminal policy, which is what the many changes in the NK and the PPC are talking about, and the lack of sanctioning of corruption on the high levels of power. Here I would like to give you some more statistical information, namely in criminal practice there is still no conviction for corruption practice. On the contrary, there is only an acquittal that says that either there is no corruption in Bulgaria, or our legislation is bad, or the investigative bodies are not working well. Personally, by listening to all the pre-speakers, I am convinced that corruption is evident. I believe that the investigating authorities are doing their job and remains the third one that we have bad legislation. I would also like to draw attention to one more thing: the fight against corruption must be fought with transparent governance, improved governance in the public sector, strict and clear laws. I believe that the proposed Draft Law by the Bulgarian Socialist Party is precisely such a strong and clear, with clearly defined and codifying legal norms. It is envisaged that this bill will be easily implemented and synchronised with the current legislation, to be effective and precisely that effectiveness to achieve results I believe that the fight against corruption can be carried out with the methods and measures we propose in our Bill and it can act preventively, educationally and deterringly with regard to all members of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines, fellow Members? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova. The word has the people's representative Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have listened to the entire debate on the topic: Corruption and the fight against this phenomenon and this debate seems strange. Obviously, fellow governors, you are not ripe for the thought that corruption is so widespread in Bulgarian society that it is already a threat to national security and that we need to bring down the party struggles a little bit and find a way to combat this problem in common. Alas! Once again you have reduced the debate to: our law is the only possible and best possible and BSP's is not working. You've come to a level to measure them both by pages and by weight. This is not the real debate on corruption. And I'll tell you why he's so weird. In March 2015 the government of Borisov 2 adopted a National Strategy for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption in the Republic of Bulgaria 2015 Very meaningful and very meaningful. Then he got our support. This document then reflected the recommendations in the European Commission's reports, an impact assessment of the integrated prevention system, the action plan for implementing the recommendations on the European Commission's reports and so on. Again, I say: a very meaningful and meaningful document. Then we all agreed that we should do it. What does this document say on the two issues that we are arguing with you about? Over the signature of Mr. Borisov is the following: The anti-corruption among senior officials suffers from a lack of a separate structure with a clear focus on the investigation of corruption crimes of senior officials. It says here that there is no separate structure to investigate. Signature: Boyko Borisov. And the BSP in its Bill offers a separate structure to investigate. You say no, and you reject it. It didn't work and it was unconstitutional. Secondly, in the Strategy over Mr. Borisov's signature, writes: "It is necessary to create such an anti-corruption system to ensure that the efforts of the anti-corruption authorities will not depend on the investigated and investigated individuals. And BSP offers in its Bill a system to ensure that the people who will work in this body will not depend on us. You are proposing that we, the MPs, broadcast the people who will check us, that is to say, depend on us. Doesn't it seem very strange to you, colleagues, that the Bulgarian Socialist Party is implementing the Strategy of GERB and Prime Minister Borisov is submitting a bill that follows it word by word. And GERB, who then supported their prime minister's strategy, today zealously smash this bill to pieces. What kind of behavior is that?! At least it's not consistent. I think there's something bigger. When such documents are written before Brussels and before a report, they are very beautiful, powdered and show political will to fight corruption. However, when it comes to the real fight against corruption, these documents are left behind by their own authors, denied by their own authors. What is even more interesting here is that the opposition proposes their document to be implemented and the authors reject it. For us the conclusion is one: you want to fight corruption only on a book. When it comes to a real one, you run away from this fight. Your bill is not a fight against corruption, it is a cover-up of corruption. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Members of Parliament, Mrs. Ninova, I regret to give your parliamentary group an additional three minutes. I strongly disagree with your speech and your reading! Colleagues and I have been debating while listening to you, commenting on the strategy wrongfully and lately. I remind you that such bodies and structures, as investigators, were created precisely in the implementation of the Strategy. These are: the Specialized Criminal Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office. I don't want to go back to analyzing your behavior in discussing these bills, including, you remember, just a few months ago, we changed the Code of Criminal Procedure. You did not then explicitly support the inclusion of corruption crimes in the scope and conviction of the Specialized Criminal Court. With regard to the.... and I made the reservation that I don't like this kind of comparison. The context was this, Mrs. Ninova, because colleagues started researching and in retrospect analysis of impact assessments. Notice that the Government Bill is supported by more than fifty pages of analysis of the grounds of this Law and of the data relating to corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mrs. Ninova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u74	Colleague Kirilov, in your opinion, does the Special Court represent a separate structure, or is it part of the entire system of the court?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u75	Part of a constitutional authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u76	In Strategy adopted by the government of Borisov 2, writes: a self-contained structure with focus on the investigation. The specialized court you're quoting, is it such a structure or is it not? You do not comment on the second part of your decision, the people involved in this body, not to depend on the persons investigated and investigated, and we will be examined and investigated under your Law. How is it that, since you decide that this body should not depend on the persons checked, you propose that the persons examined should broadcast it and choose it? That's the kind of contradiction I'm talking about. If you want, out of legal arguments, one political. We had this conversation at the National Security Advisory Council. When we put it in the context of the Strategy: Why, fellow Members, are you proposing something that fights with the Strategy adopted by yourself? Do you know what the Prime Minister's response was? It's my fault, we'll cancel this strategy if we have to. We're gonna make a change, and we're gonna get rid of that. This is a political argument that I point out one forward, two backward steps. You accept one document, then you deny it, then you pass another law. What's that?! Imitation, not consistency in the fight against corruption. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u77	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova! Here you are, Minister Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u78	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is no contradiction between the National Anti-Corruption Strategy and the bill tabled on behalf of the Council of Ministers. Selected quotes from the Strategy have no doubt that what the government is currently proposing as a bill is contrary to the Strategy itself. This has been a long and long enough debate on the National Security Advisory Council. Yes, without a doubt, since data were collected when information was available when a scheme leading to a corruption crime was discovered, the focus is undoubtedly against and on the investigation. That is why we propose that this investigation be carried out by magistrates, such as investigators and which are part of the independent judiciary. Are you saying that investigators can be influenced by politicians, whether by parliament, by the Council of Ministers, or by other high levels of power? There is absolutely no such contradiction. In our bill, the focus is on the investigation, but until it comes to the investigation, there must be a small way to gather information, to verify declarations, to establish facts and circumstances, interrelationships, to reveal the existence of facts and data about potential criminal activities. I would say corrupt not, but precisely specific corruption, and only then would the part of the judiciary dealing with an independent investigation take place without the influence of political persons a genuinely objective, true investigation that would give the prosecution good evidence so that this accusation could stand a trial and come to a conviction.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u79	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva! Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, so that you do not get the impression that in the "Volja" there is simply a feeling that there is no desire for a real fight against corruption, I would like to tell you our arguments why we will not support the laws of both parties. For us, politics and bills are not just agenda items in the National Assembly's agenda, they are not just topics in television studios. We see the bills as a comprehensive, consistent activity that defines and outlines the general framework of state policy. In this regard, the State Budget by the Council of Ministers was published these days. We were also presented with an alternative budget of BSP. What does corruption lead to? Corruption increases unjustly and ineffectively the costs of the state, also reduces the possibility of collecting revenue. Corruption creates the grey economy and reduces revenue in the state budget. Colleagues, in both budgets, fully justified and justified, none of you shows a desire to combat this corruption and reduce the grey economy. The revenues you bet are only based on economic growth compared to last year. [[Heckling]] It's not a matter of sensations, it's a question of proven facts from yourself, from your budgets. "Volja" does not believe that these bills will be working, so "Volja" does not believe that both laws by joining together structures from different existing bodies can contribute to the fight against corruption, because you recognise it in your budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u81	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u82	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! I want to thank all my colleagues for today's debate! Perhaps in today everyone expected that here we would start and again stick to opposition, which is absolutely unproductive. There was an opportunity to present the two bills and, as was the position of the Advisory Council with President Rumen Radev, the final decision was taken in the Bulgarian Parliament. Today, each of the Members of the National Assembly will be able to make their respective votes in a way in which they believe that a bill should be supported or should be rejected. I am convinced that today's debate will allow between first and second readings, if indeed judged, some of the texts to be refined. It's more important to me that the state is moving in the right direction. In the forty-first parliament, when discussing the possibility of setting up a Specialized Court and Special Prosecutor's Office to investigate organised crime and corruption, then we took a political decision, the Parliament ruled and established a Specialized Court and a Special Prosecutor's Office. Because of worries that capacity will hardly be able to respond to both organised crime and corruption, the political decision for organised crime alone has been taken. The reports coming out of the European Commission in recent years give a certain positive sign that the Specialized Court and the Specialized Prosecutor's Office have built up the necessary capacity and have already had results that are also being taken into account by the European Commission. Just a month ago, we made a decision in the Bulgarian Parliament that this competence could actually be extended and that the specialized court and the special prosecutor's office could also investigate corruption on the higher levels of power. It is extremely important to me that the bill submitted by the Council of Ministers corresponds to the expectations of society. We all want to support Mrs. Tsacheva as Minister of Justice because she has walked the entire procedure with a working group, with many discussions, of course, by taking every different opinion into account, it has come to the introduction of the bill to the Bulgarian Parliament. It would have been much easier if a group of MPs in the parliamentary majority had tabled this bill, but we really wanted to follow a procedure on an extremely important bill so that political speculation and suggestion could be left in the background. What is extremely important here also needs to be taken into account by the Presidential Institution for the Advisory Council held. The Advisory Council was held just on the eve before we voted on today's Law, which was tabled by the Council of Ministers and the BSP Bill. Yes, there were indeed many different opinions and I am indeed solidarity with what Minister Tsacheva said about the debate that was being held on the Strategy at the Advisory Council. Everyone then took certain paragraphs out of the Strategy and said that this contradicts everything we say or do as politics. I stand entirely by Mrs. Tsacheva's words. The debate that was held with the President was very productive, I think, because we really came up with a single opinion on the decisions, on the problems and on the clear political will that all the participants in the Advisory Council gave. From now on, I think that what we are going to do today is extremely useful and important because it will be taken into account by both the Bulgarian society and the European Commission. I am convinced that with the Bill, which we will adopt today at first reading, we will allow the parliamentary majority, which will support the texts in this Bill, to have anti-corruption legislation by the end of the year and to have been able to implement the recommendations of the Advisory Council, which were taken just a week ago. Exactly the recommendations taken at the Advisory Council we are starting their implementation today. I am convinced that this will show a different way of conduct and respect to the institutions, and, of course, parliament to have the leading role when looking at bills. Of course, it is parliament that should appoint this body, and this was the opinion and opinion in the forty-third parliament, when BSP also supported the bill and in this direction we were all moving when discussing possible options. You know, the original option was for the Council of Ministers to appoint the President. In the debates held in the Forty- Third Parliament, a compromise was made and we reached a political consensus by everyone, without exception. Let us remind ourselves that the Bill would have been adopted in the Forty-third Parliament if the pebbles relating to anonymous signals had not been tripped, which had already been cleared in both the BSP Bill and the Parliamentary majority Bill, respectively, of the Council of Ministers. I thank all my colleagues today who have not crossed the line of good tone, because this is the way in which we should argue with arguments, let the prevailing be legal. I am convinced that this way we will also be successful in the legislation that we are adopting here. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u84	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, you thanked the opposition, all the participants, the Advisory Council of Parliament, but in the end you will not accept any of what we said. I take a reply on the occasion of your speech: the final decision is taken by the Bulgarian Parliament. This is undoubtedly true, but in practice this means: the final decision is made by the majority. The final decision is made by us, by you, and that's with the Government Bill that's actually happening. You propose that the head of the structure be elected by the Bulgarian Parliament, which means by yourself. It's actually a demonstration of a force by which you say that you have the power, that you control and control the new authority. This demonstration of strength is counterproductive and will do no good. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u85	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Tsvetanov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Zarkov! Yes, it is the parliamentary majority that adopts the laws in the Bulgarian Parliament, and that is why there are parliamentary elections, majority formations, formation of parliamentary groups, and from this point of view these are democratic methods. We stick to democratic rules. If you are proposing something else, we would be happy to hear your opinion, but we would not deviate from the only possible path. This is the European, democratic and the right, and I believe that the Bulgarian Parliament by a majority adopts every single law. From this point of view, I have never heard, at least there is no such practice, that there are parliaments around the world, where minorities form legislation that can be adopted in the way that they might not correspond to the formation of majorities. We have an extended hand to hear and your additional suggestions that you can make between first and second readings and they will be taken into account. So you are in your right, as a MP you have such a legislative initiative, do so and we are with an extended hand to hear everything that could optimize a law, but I would not agree with you that we must violate the democratic principle in any way. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill on countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, No 702-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 212 MPs: 133, against 70, abstention 9. The bill was passed in the first vote. I put to the first vote a Law on Countering Corruption among senior public officials, No 754-01-71, tabled by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 210 MPs: for 69, against 73, abstention 68. The bill was not adopted in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: REPORT OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON THE TERRITORY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, THE RADIO RECOGNITIONS AND THE SUCCESSIVES FOR THE HEALTH OF GRADES AND PROJECT FOR THE DECISION ON THE REPORT. With the Commission's report you will be introduced to its President "The People's Representative Georgi Kolev."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THE EUROPEAN UNION FOR THE for the activities carried out by the Temporary Commission for the identification of potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking waters in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens In relation to the identified deviations in the quality of drinking water in certain areas of the country and the concerns about its radioactive contamination, with a decision of the National Assembly on 28 April 2017, the Temporary Commission was established to establish the potentially hazardous and specific case of radioactive contamination of drinking waters in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens. Due to the exceptional public importance of the issue of human health and the broad public interest, the Commission began immediate work almost daily, attracting specialists in the field of water, the water supply of the population and analysing the risk to human health. On 3 May 2017, the internal rules of work and the activities of the Temporary Commission, necessary for the legal basis of the subsequent meetings, hearings of ministers and competent representatives of various departments and scientific circles in this area were adopted unanimously, as well as for the subsequent working meeting in the city. Haskovo is one of the problem areas. Water sources not complying with the regulations have been reported, the same have been stopped and some of them limited to use. At several meetings, the Commission analysed in detail the available data, requested opinions from all involved ministries, departments, scientific organisations and individual experts. The majority opinion of experts is that it concerns natural geological processes resulting from which a water-bearing horizon with an increased content of natural uranium is formed, which in turn leads to increased values of total alpha and beta activity in the waters of those used for drinking purposes. With regard to the closure of uranium mining in the Republic of Bulgaria in the 1990s, an in-depth analysis, assessment and corresponding measures are needed to what extent the programme for the recalculation of uranium mining is effectively, complexly and environmentally implemented. What impact this process has had on the status of water bodies and water horizons, on the overall system of drinking water supply. The Commission meeting, held on 13 September 2017, reported additional data, analyses, results thereof, as well as specific measures taken by different institutions during the period. The content of the final report was discussed, as a result of the proposals made by the MPs and by the President of the Temporary Commission, the MPs Yordan Apostolov, Atanas Kostadinov, Alexander Nenkov, Andon Donchev and Manol Genov, the members of the Commission agreed on the following opinion: the report to be formed in three main parts and the annexes: one constructive part in terms of the factual situation; the second part with an analysis of what is happening, including the actions taken; and the third part of the proposal of the committee to optimize the basis of the factual situation, the analysis and content with specific proposals to the institutions and applications, all the materials requested and received related to the activity of the commission. Construction part: In separate areas of the country, water standard deviations used for drinking are frequent and temporary and permanent increases in some of the indicators are reported periodically. In many places the available water sources draw water from the same water-borne horizon (one and also an underground water body), which greatly reduces the possibility of finding a water source with suitable water for human consumption, even in the case of additional construction of new water-based facilities. According to the experts who submitted opinions on the issue, there are different options for solving the problem, such as: purification of the existing underground bodies; searching for new ones close to the settlement; building, installing different treatment facilities or building water supply lines with the required quality, from remote water sources. All of these ways require serious specific technical assignments, pre-project studies and serious investments, which are often not within the reach of the relevant water companies and municipalities. Action taken: On the occasion of the problem, the interdepartmental working group established by order of the three ministers of health, regional development and public works and the environment and water, at the request of the Temporary Commission of the National Assembly, presented periodically the results of the samplings and analyses carried out, as well as information on the measures taken immediately in the event of deviations from the regulatory requirements for water quality and their exclusion from the water supply systems of the settlements concerned. These water sources, which do not comply with the Water Regulation and are in settlements where it is economically impossible to build a new water source, to solve the issue of drinking water, as well as for other people's needs. In the Temporary Commission, during meetings and with written information, it was clearly declared by the health authorities, managers of water companies and mayors of the settlements concerned that there is no drinking water supplied to the final consumer as a result of the measures taken with deviations in quality requirements for health significant radiological indicators and representing a real or potential danger to human health. Of course, in separate settlements with water sources excluded from the water supply network, there was a risk of water shortages and the imposition of a water use regime if the subsequent results of analyses by accredited laboratories confirm water quality deviations in these water sources. Under such circumstances, an urgent demand for alternative water sources or an opportunity to purify through drinking water treatment facilities will be required. The result of the recommendations is available by order of the three ministers of health, regional development and public works and the environment and water, No RD-583 of 24 August 2017, on the basis of art. 45, para. 1 of the Law on Administration in connection with art. 9, para. Art. 1, art. 10a, para. 4 t. Art. 1 and Art. 1 189, p. 1 of the Water Act and Article 1 of the Water Act. 31, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 32, para. 1 of the Health Act, a working group was established in composition: Co-chairs: Malina Krumova Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works; Atanaska Nikolova Deputy Minister of Environment and Water; Svetlana Yordanova Deputy Minister of Health. Members: Eng. Ivanka Videnova Director of the Department of Water Supply and Sewerage, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works; Eng. Iveta Marinova, Head of the Strategic Management Department, Department of Water Supply and Sewerage, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works; Eng. Svetla Hristova, Chief Expert in the Department of Strategic Management, Department of Water and Sewerage, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works; Valentin Getov State Expert at the Department of Concenses and Commercial Companies, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works; Krasimira Brumcheva, Acting Director of Water Management Directorate, Ministry of Environment and Water; Rositsa Petrova, State Expert at the Water Management Directorate, Ministry of Environment and Water; Kamelia Radeva Executive Director of the Water Executive Agency; Dr. Angel Kunchev, Chief State Health Inspector, Ministry of Health; Dr. Teodora Todorova, Director of the Department of State Health Control, Ministry of Health; Dr. Catalina Valkova, State Expert at the Department of State Health Control, Ministry of Health; Prof. Dr. Zdravka Valerianova, Head of the National Cancer Register; Prof. Dr. Valeria Hadzhidekova, Director of the National Centre for Radiobiology and Radiation Protection; Orlin Stoyanov Deputy Director of the National Centre for Radiobiology and Radiation Protection; Assoc. Dr. Veselka Kamburova, Director of Public Health and Health Risk Directorate, National Centre for Public Health and Analysis; Dr. Sonia Dimitrova, Director of RZI Haskovo; Prof. Alexander Strezov Institute for Nuclear Research and Nuclear Energy, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences; Prof. Dr. Kamen Kanev, National Consultant in Clinical Toxicology, Military Medical Academy; Prof. Bozhidar Gutsalov "Sofia University; Dimitar Margaritov, Chairman of the Commission for Consumer Protection; Assoc. Dr. Todorka Yankovska-Stefanovova - Deputy Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. The Interdepartmental Working Group shall: 1. To propose organisational measures for the interaction and exchange of information between competent authorities and carry out an analysis of water legislation in order to improve water quality control intended for drinking-bit needs and to prevent a possible risk to the health of the population. 2. To discuss and propose options for a lasting solution to the problem of the quality of drinking water in Haskovo and other settlements with proven deviations from the norms in order to avoid a health risk for the population. 3. If necessary, other experts may be drawn to the composition of the working group. Actions carried out by ministries and agencies so far: The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has presented information that, at present, in the execution of orders to stop the operation of RZI sites, Haskovo, the water operator has excluded respectively in the US (pump station) No 1 five wells, in PS Bolyarovo No 1 one wells (Red Metals) and in PS No 2 all four wells. Haskovo's population has been notified to limit the use of drinking water for drinking and food preparation. The joint monitoring by the Water and the Ministry of Health of Water Quality in the water supply network and the Ministry of Water Quality in the underground water sources continues. On 11 May 2017, the Council of Ministers adopted Order No 91 to approve additional transfers through the budget of the Ministry of Finance for 2017 amounting to BGN 1 930 000 for Haskovo Municipality for financing of the facility. In implementation of PMS No 91, on 11 July 2017 an Agreement was signed between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Municipality of Haskovo for the transfer of funds, requiring the activities of the site to comply with Ordinance No 1 of 10 October 2007 on the exploration, use and conservation of groundwater, with the decisions of the Temporary Parliamentary Commission on the identification of potentially dangerous and specific cases of registered elevated (supernormal) values of the content of natural radionuclides (natural uranium, common alpha and beta activity) in drinking waters in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and the consequences for the health of citizens, as well as with the decisions of the interdepartmental working group in the event of such creation. Following a negotiated procedure carried out by Haskovo Municipality without prior notice, a contract was concluded on 25 July 2017 for the site of the project "Execution of engineering............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. A contract has also been concluded for the preparation of conformity assessment and construction supervision of the site. At present, work projects have been drawn up which have been submitted to the supervisory firm for the preparation of a compliance assessment report. At the same time, coordination procedures are under way. An investment intention has been notified to the RIEW Haskovo, in response to which instructions for submitting a request for EIA and payment of a fee have been received. Applications have been submitted to the Swimming Directorate of the East-White Sea Region to amend the permit for underground water mining and for the establishment of sanitary and security zones around 8 wells. On 17 August 2017, a public contract was announced for the execution of the project "Execution of engineering" the design, the exercise of copyright supervision and the implementation of the MOU of the site of the additional emergency water supply of the town of Haskovo. pipe well in the area of water supply zone..Uzongzhovo II..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... pipe wells in the area of the water supply zone. Offers shall be accepted by 25 September 2017. On 18 August 2017, a public procurement contract was announced for the selection of a contractor for the preparation of a conformity assessment and the implementation of a construction supervision of the site of the additional emergency water supply of the town of Haskovo. Offers shall be accepted until 27 September 2017. Documentation and public procurement are to be prepared at the moment when we have imported the Report, for the design and construction of additional plumbing. In order to prepare documents for the displacement of a water supply in the Eastern zone and due to failure, a new route is discussed. Ministry of Environment and Water In the period after the establishment of the problems in drinking and domestic water supply in the region of Haskovo (month April - month September 2017) The Ministry of Environment and Water (MoSW) within the limits of its competence for the management of natural waters: - actively participate in the identification of the factual circumstances and deviations in the quality of the natural water used for drinking water supply and the distribution of pollution in the Haskovo boiler area, including by assisting health control authorities and analysing water samples used for drinking purposes; - establish, by order of the Minister of Environment and Water, a procedure for effective interaction between the structural units of the Ministry of Health and the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency for the rapid notification of the competent authorities, in establishing non-specific pollution in the implementation of regular water monitoring or in the monitoring of the water performed by permit holders; - analyse all possibilities for providing water for drinking water in the region of Haskovo from other sources of groundwater or surface water and provide it to the interdepartmental Working Group (MCG), established by order of the Minister of Health, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and Minister of Environment and Water, to identify and resolve problems in the region of Haskovo; - collect and analyse the monitoring data available to date in the area of rare metals fields and provide them to the Temporary Commission and the IWG; - carried out a check for permits issued for water collection to provide water for drinking water supply in the area of all deposits registered in the National Geological Fund, manifestations and areas with established elevated uranium content in the rocks. These areas are located on the territory of Blagoevgrad, Burgas, Vidin, Vratsa, Kardzhali, Kyustendil, Lovech, Montana, Pazardzhik, Pleven, Plovdiv, Sliven, Smolyan, Sofia, Stara Zagora, Haskovo and Yambol. Information on areas where drinking water facilities are established shall be provided to the interdepartmental working group. MoEW is currently developing a water monitoring programme in risk areas that will be implemented by the end of 2017 and in 2018; - carried out a check for permits issued for water collection to provide water for drinking water supply in the area of all deposits registered in the National Geological Fund, manifestations and areas with established elevated uranium content in the rocks. These areas are located on the territory of Blagoevgrad, Burgas, Vidin, Vratsa, Kardzhali, Kyustendil, Lovech, Montana, Pazardzhik, Pernik, Pleven, Plovdiv, Sliven, Smolyan, Sofia, Sofia-grad, Stara Zagora, Haskovo and Yambol. Information on areas where drinking water facilities are established is provided to the interdepartmental working group. MoEW is currently developing a water monitoring programme in these areas, which will be implemented by the end of 2017 and in 2018; - carry out an analysis of water legislation and prepare proposals for regulatory and practical measures to improve coordination and exchange of information between responsible departments and to improve the awareness of citizens currently under the IWG. The Ministry of Health, carrying out control monitoring of the quality of drinking water at the end-user, carried out a targeted check regarding the quality of drinking water, which showed that although limited problems with the presence of natural uranium and increased alpha activity in drinking water were found in a number of settlements in Haskovo region, Plovdiv, Pernishko, Velingrad regions and in separate small towns in Blagoevgrad, Burgas and other districts. The National Radiobiology and Radiation Protection Centre carried out expert assessments of the indicative dose of drinking water ingestion, which shows values within the normal range. In establishing non-compliance with the regulatory requirements for control monitoring, as well as in obtaining information from other bodies having an obligation to monitor water (VIC operators, the Ministry of Environment through the relevant pool directorates), timely and adequate measures are taken that are within the authority of the health authorities to protect the health of the population. In addition, the health authorities pointed out that the long-term variation in the quality of drinking water has also occurred by other chemical indicators: nitrates, manganese, iron, chromium and others as the largest and most of Bulgaria's territory is the problem of pollution of drinking waters with nitrates. The non-compliances identified have been repeatedly informed by the competent departments (Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, Water Supply, Ministry of Environment and Water) of the need to take the most appropriate technical solutions to improve the quality of drinking water. The measures taken by the authorities of the state health control are: issuing prescriptions to the water operators for carrying out investigation into the causes of the deviations, conducting additional water analyses, taking adequate measures by the water operators to remove the reasons for the deviations found; issuing orders and prescriptions for imposing restrictions on the use and supply of water, timely informing the population of the imposed prohibitions and restrictions. These measures have achieved the non-use of drinking water, creating a risk to the health of the population, but the problem of its complexity and scope goes beyond the powers, competences and capabilities of the Ministry of Health. The coordinated actions of several ministries are needed: the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, in whose portfolio are water supply companies, the operators who are obliged to monitor the water submitted to consumers and to offer and implement the necessary technical solutions to improve the quality of drinking water; The Ministry of Environment and Water and its regional structures which monitor and monitor underground and surface water bodies used for drinking purposes and by analysing the results obtained should assist the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and Water Supply companies in choosing for the most correct technical solutions and offer uncompromised sources for the extraction of water for drinking purposes; the Ministry of Health and its regional structures to continue regular monitoring of the quality of drinking water in the consumer and to take the necessary action in a timely manner to prevent risk to the health of the population, including by suspending the inclusion in water supply systems of water sources with deviations from the quality standards of drinking water; The Ministry of Economy and the company "Ecoengineering" Ltd., established by PMS 74 of 27 March 1998, which performs all activities to eliminate the consequences of the extraction and processing of uranium raw material in the Republic of Bulgaria technical liquidation, technical and biological rehabilitation, water purification and monitoring of the environment in closed uranium mining sites; "The Ministry of Energy " in connection with information on underground wealth and geofunda; The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall carry out an analysis, if necessary with other departments, of food products produced in areas where water does not meet the health standards of the population; of the quality of livestock production of meat and milk from animals that consumed water at a deviation of the standards, as well as plant production irrigated with water in a deviation of the norms. The Ministry and its regional structures should introduce the mandatory application of good agricultural practices in the processing of agricultural land and monitor its implementation, particularly enhanced on arable areas falling within the sanitary zones of water-based water-based water supply facilities, including compliance with designated prohibitions for the use of fertilisers and plant protection preparations. The Agricultural Academy shall carry out a study on areas located near the sites with liquidated uranium mining in order to identify potentially contaminated areas used for the grazing of agricultural animals and to take the necessary measures to prevent radioactive contamination of production from such animals. The co-ordinated actions of these departments should include the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency; the Institute of Nikola Pushkarov, Sofia; the scientific institutes of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, universities and scientific organizations working in this field, which can and should indicate economically advantageous solutions such as specific technologies and facilities for purification, new drilling, water transfer from other sources and others. According to the information provided by Prof. d. A meeting was held in the cabinet of the President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences between prosecutors and district prosecutors of Plovdiv, district of Haskovo and an investigator from Haskovo and experts from the Institute for Nuclear Research and Nuclear Energy. At the meeting were formulated questions from the prosecutor's office to the experts and access to the received data on the state of drinking water in the town of Haskovo. A new sampling of water in Haskovo was specified and a subsequent detailed determination of their composition was made of uranium, thorium, radon, uranium's subsidiaries, polonium and lead. The sample was carried out by experts at the end of July and then the samples were transported to YIAE BAN for radiochemical analysis. In the meantime, an overview of the available data on the quantities of uranium in various samples taken by the National Geofund at the Ministry of Energy, the Environment and Water Executive Agency at the Ministry of Environment and Water at the Ministry of Environment and Water at the Ministry of Environment was conducted. Plovdiv and the National Centre for Radiobiology and Radiation Protection at the Ministry of Education. The geologic structure of the land masses in the vicinity of Haskovo has been analysed in order to assess the presence of natural radioactive isotopes, mainly alpha-rays, in the geologic structure of the land around Haskovo and the impact of uranium ore mining there. All data received will be summarised and sent to the prosecution as an expertise of the property in establishing the reason for the increased uranium content and total alpha activity in groundwater, possible sources and routes for their penetration. The Commission recommends to each of the institutions involved better coordination, improving mutual awareness, including the inclusion of the necessary experts in this field and improving control, including the mandatory implementation of legislative monitoring of water quality, and not payment of fines for the activities not carried out. The results of the recommendations are available with a new order of the three ministers (MRP, MRDP and MOEW) the work of the interdepartmental working group on the quality of drinking water with updated and supplemented expert staff (23 experts). Based on the multilateral information and analysis presented to the Temporary Commission, we reiterate that the most effective measure for the long-term solution of the problem will be the involvement of these ministries and departments. The Temporary Commission for the identification of potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking waters in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens shall propose: I. The interdepartmental working group established by order of the three ministers, at the request of the temporary committee to have permanent action and to: 1. specify within a six-month period the requirements in the different regulations: which are indicative, which are recommended and which are mandatory, with a view to uniformising the decision-making approach and declaring deviations from the water quality requirements; 2. arrange for the exchange of information on water quality, including self-seating, sanctions and taking coordinated action in case of signals of deviations from the water quality standards (in natural water bodies, water sources for drinking water supply, a crane for the end-user) with a period of six months until 31 March 2018; 3. propose organisational measures for the interaction and exchange of information between competent authorities in order to improve the control of the quality of water intended for drinking purposes and to prevent a possible risk to the health of the population. We recommend developing a single mechanism for the exchange of information between competent authorities, interaction and joint decision-making in the event of similar situations with the quality of drinking water in the future; 4. to warn the population when limiting the use of water in the area concerned and at the same time to be informed of the health consequences of its use; 5. We draw the attention of the interdepartmental working group to the proposal of the mayor of Velingrad, to the availability of a water source that meets the needs and standards for drinking water use (sour Kleptuza) with which it is possible to quickly solve the problem of water shortages in Velingrad with minimal means. (Annex No 11) in the report. II. In settlements with problems in the quality of drinking-bit water submitted for consumption to create a mechanism for solidarity financing of such sites, when their construction is economically inappropriate and cannot be carried out through the cost of water. III. Proposals for legislative changes relating to water quality in the water supply network should be submitted to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management, which also fall within the VIKs. IV. To increase the sanctions for water operators in the event of non-compliance with the monitoring requirements for drinking water. V. Upon receipt of data on increased and overnormal content of natural radionuclides and heavy metals in water, regardless of the source of information and research technology, immediately inform the relevant ministries and interdepartmental working group and population. VI. The Ministry of Economy should carry out an up-to-date assessment and analysis of the state of the closed uranium mining sites in the Republic of Bulgaria, including expert on-site research and report the results to the interdepartmental working group. On the basis of such an assessment and analysis, an adequate programme for the sustainable protection of the environment from the effects of uranium raw material extraction and processing shall be prepared at present. On sites of the former uranium mining, where a massive flow of mining water contaminated with natural uranium has been detected during the investigation, creating prerequisites for the occurrence of health-environment risk to the population and the environment, measures shall be taken for the construction of treatment facilities. VII. The Interdepartmental Working Group and the local self-government bodies shall assign an assessment of the necessary financial means to take the necessary specific practical measures relating to the construction of relevant treatment facilities to reduce the content of natural uranium and heavy metals in water used for drinking-bit needs of water sources above the regulatory content of the same. VIII. Institutions and bodies related to water capture, plumbing systems, water supply and water quality control intended for drinking and domestic consumption to propose a solution to the question of the collateralisation of laboratory tests for the presence of natural uranium. IX. Health institutions and agencies shall carry out an analysis of water data for drinking and in case of non-compliance with radiological indicators and, where necessary, carry out an assessment of health and radiation risk and the health status of the population. X. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry: The Agricultural Academy shall carry out a study on areas located near closed uranium mining sites in order to identify potentially contaminated areas used for the grazing of agricultural animals and to take the necessary measures to prevent contamination of the production of those animals with natural chromaclides, heavy metals, as well as nitrate contamination, phosphates in the use of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium fertilisers. XI. The interdepartmental working group of six months shall notify the results of its activities to the National Assembly. Based on the multilateral information and analysis presented to the Temporary Commission, the most effective measure for the long-term solution of the problem will be the involvement of the said ministries and the activities of the interdepartmental working group were restored for this purpose. (Following Annexes.) In this part, I would like to read you the proposal for a decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the report of the Temporary Commission on the identification of potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking water in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Adopts the report of the Temporary Commission on the identification of potentially dangerous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking waters in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens. 2. The report should be sent to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Environment and Water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u89	Thank you, Mr. Kolev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Yoncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u90	Madam President, honourable Members! Firstly, I would like to thank everyone, especially the ruling majority, for supporting our request, our insistence on this of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. The recommendations with which the Commission is meeting are extremely important for the health of the Bulgarians. We hope that the conclusions reached by the Commission will help not hide or delay information on identified pollution of drinking water in the future, not only in the city. Haskovo. I will also remind you why the Commission was created. As early as January 2017, the responsible Bulgarian institutions had information on the pollution of the underground waters of the town. Haskovo. It was only April that measures were taken. I'll be more specific because this is important. The report on the analysis of the presence of high uranium content and total alpha activity of water in the city. Haskovo was ready at the end of 2016 and published on the website of the Ministry of Environment and Water another month of January 2017. However, the Ministry of Health issued a voice in April of the same year. Just a month of April, residents of the town of Varna. Haskovo understands from the Ministry of Health that water should not be used for drinking and cooking. So, the Commission has done an extremely important job. It concluded that: "Straightly involved departments must improve their mutual awareness. Recommends that there should be an exchange of information between competent authorities in order to improve water quality control. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission recommends that no information be withheld from citizens when water is contaminated, and this presents a risk to citizens, as is the case in Haskovo. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Temporary Commission had to establish the consequences for the health of Haskovo citizens. It's not done. The Commission report lacks an important document which can answer this question. These are the researches carried out by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences (BAS), the Institute of Nuclear Research, which analyzed the state of drinking water in the city. Haskovo. Analysis done by June this year. This result is extremely important because it responds to what is the indicative basis of radioactive water pollution. In other words, is there a danger to the health of Haskovo residents of the water in the city? However, the analysis of the Institute for Nuclear Research of BAS was not applied in the document of the Temporary Commission. Why hasn't this analysis been applied? As an MP from Haskovo, I asked the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to provide a copy of this study. I was denied politely. The reason: the study was done at the request of the Ministry of Health. I've asked the Department of Health for an answer so far. Therefore, I ask from this tribune why the Temporary Commission, which should give an answer to the citizens of Haskovo, is water dangerous for their health, not providing research to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences? Where's the analysis of the BAS Nuclear Institute? Do you have anything to hide from the citizens of Haskovo? Finally, to sum up, it is not clear from the Temporary Commission Report who is responsible. Why has the information been withheld for months for the use of radioactive contaminated water by Haskovo citizens? Secondly, who is responsible for the fact that the residents of Haskovo today, ladies and gentlemen, do not know whether this radioactive contaminated water poses a danger to their health. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u91	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yoncheva. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u92	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Yoncheva, I will try to be as calm as possible in my speech, given the attempt to insinuate certain things, but you are kings in this thing. We've seen it in the last few months, we've seen your way of working, and your understanding of what politics is? But I'll try to stick to what you said. First of all, you said that at the beginning of the year a report was prepared saying that there was pollution in the groundwater, right? I'm quoting what you just said. However, you didn't say anything when the prohibition and order of the Regional Health Inspectorate was actually imposed to stop the water supply to people when this water already reached the so-called tap when it was used for domestic and drinking needs. That in the underground core, in the underground water, there are deviations, that's normal. However, as much as we'd like to, we live in one nature, it's stronger than us. The point is that when the Regional Health Inspectorate can verify this and it became clear in the Commission, at the moment when it is established that there is excess of natural uranium in the water when it is already on a crane, when people use it for domestic drinking needs, then the Regional Health Inspection, on the same day, prohibits the use of these wells. So please don't let people down and let's not leave the feeling in society that, you see, there are some bad institutions here that hide information from them. That's not true. My second line to you is also about this report you're quoting, which is supposed to be a secret one. Excuse me, but in the end, you are a member of the Haskovo district. If you had come to this Commission for once to ask for this report, you would have met and I am sure that President Kolev would also have given you this information. I dare say that the Commission has had a very good tone all along. All the documents that we have requested and colleagues from opposition, from the DPS, from everywhere, from the "Volja" and all the information that has been requested has been provided. You should have come once.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Here's a second line, Mr. Kolev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u94	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Yoncheva, first of all, I would like to thank all the Commissioners, and I would like to stress that there were no decisions taken with a different opinion. This is not our committee, and it is not our father's, we decide on a more closely party issue that is really significant not only for the Haskovo region. I am very grateful to all the members for being absolutely responsible. The report was consensually drafted. There is one big question that you all, colleagues, should know. These analyses require time, especially those for the alpha level. Mrs. Yoncheva, I will answer the question about BAS. We also requested information from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. There's a letter saying that there's an investigation going on with the Attorney General and that at the moment this information is still being analyzed, because there are new hits that require a time limit to be carried out and that's why we don't have them. I mean, it's not trendy that they didn't provide that information. On the contrary, we had great communication with the Attorney General. All institutions without exception work conscientiously and are looking for ways to solve Haskovo's problem. They're looking for the reasons that could lead to the cessation of further wells. One more very important question. First, the early days found that there were new wells that did not meet the conditions in Haskovo. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We immediately moved out the entire Commission and held an open session in front of the media in Haskovo. Immediately, those which do not meet the conditions and limited wells have been stopped, and up to now, thanks to our Commission and the new Interdepartmental Working Group, and thanks to the agencies at the moment, there is no well, no water source that does not comply with the standards that are currently available for consumption or with the relevant provisions for water use.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u95	Mr. Kolev, perhaps you'd like to continue speaking. Your time is up. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Yoncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u96	Dear Mr. Kolev, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Institute for Nuclear Research has two researches on water in Haskovo. You are talking about what is in connection with pre-trial proceedings for withholding information about the presence of high uranium content and total alpha activity of water in the city. Haskovo. You're talking about this research. But I ask you: where is the research of the Institute for Nuclear Research, where are the analyses that came out June? Because I have information that colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria are asking for this information, insisting that you request it from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Where is she? I turned back to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. They said they had, they had that analysis, but they couldn't give it to me. Where's that analysis? Why hasn't it been given to the Commission, why isn't it given to the opposition, to the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria? Regarding Mr. Nenkov's line, I must say this. As early as January, the Ministry of Environment and Water has established contaminated groundwater with uranium and alpha activity above the acceptable standards, both by European Union standards and by standards, before entering the European Union. And it is only when April is sent by the Basein Directorate to remind these studies, ladies and gentlemen, that measures are being taken and water in Haskovo is announced that it cannot be used for drinking and household needs. That's why he's got papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u97	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u98	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yoncheva. To speak, Mr. Kolev has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u99	Mrs. President, honourable Members, Mrs. Yoncheva! The studies of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences are not two, but numerous. At the moment, I am looking at a number of studies that are still under investigation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u100	Where are the tests from June?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u101	I show: letter of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. [[Shows the letter.]] This is their letter in which they say that this information cannot be provided to us as production is ongoing and cannot provide it. Therefore, we have not been able to implement it. We want to do this.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u102	The June survey, where is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u103	Don't engage in dialogue. Get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u104	That's the first question. The second question that I wanted to stress: colleagues, I do not believe in this House and not only this House, any state institution, to have the conscience to release water for use by the population, which will dramatically deviate from the norms. All those who have come to us and the chiefs of water companies and ministries, we see the state of these people who, knowing that they have a problem, first stop access to water and then notify us. They're not just waiting for our orders. We went to see if that was true. Look, we work very well in the Commission. I suggest we reunite efforts to solve this problem. Let's combine efforts to help the Interdepartmental Group do those analyses that take time. I would like to thank my colleagues for their insistence on having such an Interdepartmental Group in charge of you, before us, to be responsible for the information, for the legal documents that have been unsynchronized, to synchronise them. Let us make sure that the population knows that there is a group responsible for monitoring the process, which will not allow deviations from water wells to enter for water use, so that if there is a water restriction in the region concerned. That is what I hope, too, and I see, and on the actions of all the parliamentary groups, unity on these issues. I'd be very grateful if we could keep the good tone to the last. Hopefully, at the end of the period of the Interdepartmental Group, the National Assembly will receive clear, accurate results from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences as well. To receive clear and precise proposals for solving the problem of the respective municipalities and therefore I also appeal to the relevant municipalities. As you have seen, the mayor of Velingrad came with a clear proposal on how to solve his problem. Good call! In the same way, I ask that there be activity from the respective municipalities. It's a common problem, he's a problem for all of us. There are our fathers and mothers, they consume this water. We can't leave her in this condition, but it takes time, it takes analysis, and we don't make mistakes. You know how harmful it is to consume such water, you know how harmful it is to submit unverified information, unclear information, to create unnecessary expectations for people. You can't! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Kolev. Come in, Mrs. Yoncheva. Second line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u106	Dear Mr. Kolev, the question was very specific and very clear where is the report of the Institute for Nuclear Research from June on the waters of Haskovo? You are talking about a completely different study involving pre-trial proceedings to conceal information about the presence of high uranium content and alpha activity of water in the town of Haskovo, which resulted in no significant damage. You're talking about this research, and I'm talking about something else. I ask: where is this study of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences applied? It is very important because it gives reference values to radioactive contamination. This report can calm people in Haskovo and say that really radioactive pollution is not dangerous to their health. Where are the results of this June report? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Yoncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u108	I apologize. Why are the results of this report not in the analysis of your report? We didn't hear your report analyzed. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Yoncheva. Second line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kolev, you are talking about consensus on a really national topic about the health and life of Bulgarian citizens. Mr. Kolev, out of this tribune, colleague Yoncheva asked you a clear question: why in the analyses, in the report that you presented to us so extensively, quoting the number of contracts, did you simply make a statement? In the conclusions of this report, which you presented, is missing the material document................................................................................................... You're talking here about a completely different report. You say it takes time. Time has passed, the report has been ready since June. Why does it not exist in your report, has not been taken into account, has not been taken into account in the conclusions, which calls into question the very conclusions of this report which you have presented? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kolev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u112	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Yoncheva, it is a very large amount of information that we have received until the last moment. These are huge files from all the institutions. Everything we have received is included as annexes to the report. What we wanted further for the latest research, we were told that after the relevant production was completed. You can familiarize yourself with the amount of data... [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] Mr. Popov, we've had it all, we've given it all, that's what we've had, that's what we've provided. Everything we've had, we've got it there. Please, look at him, I hope he gives you the specified information. What BAS is about to answer will take time to analyze. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Kolev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u114	Madam President, honourable Members! We risk a little bit like in the Oscars and I will once again thank everyone who has participated, but since the issue is extremely serious, I will go directly to it. Thank you for having respected our desire to have such a committee of inquiry, and what is more, I think that everyone has done their work very conscientiously during and the extended period of time. I want to tell you in simpler words what we have encountered and what are the main conclusions. I'm gonna bring in some clarification, too, because I think there's some kind of misunderstanding. I don't know about two tests. Our colleague Yoncheva told us about a second study. I'll make it clear to you about the radionuclide survey. I must tell you that the main reason in my opinion is at expert level, and most of my colleagues are of that opinion, it is said in the report, the main reasons are two, colleagues. The first is that the closure in the 1990s of uranium mining and the uranium mining industry should have had a serious recycling program. This reclamation program has been encased in lethargy by every government since 1990, and thus this process, this reclamation process, which has been at three levels, has been frozen at an institutional level, literally encased in lethargy. What is worse is that this lethargy with regard to the recalculation of uranium mining has also been strangely transferred to the state administration in terms of reaction, disclosure, action, countering all the norms that we notice as excess. I would like to say that when we established this lethargy, which I think is to the detriment of Bulgarian citizens, and when we had data on which the prosecution worked, that there was an opportunity to conceal data on purpose and not to communicate them, then we asked, and you respected our request to have such an Enquiry Commission. These are issues on which the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office is currently working, and I will not dwell on them, because once the data from her work comes out, we will have authentic data and evidence whether this hypothesis was correct. Moving on, I would like to assure you that the second major problem is not to be underestimated. As we have said in the report of the Temporary Commission, the main weapon from now on, with which we can combat this problem and be in favour of the citizens, is the creation of extremely good coordination between the responsible institutions. I want to tell you that there are really a lot of materials, and now I'm going to go to specific factology. We have a letter from the Attorney General regarding the so-called radiation research. I specifically, as Commissioner, am not familiar, College Yoncheva, to have a second or other study that has not been presented to us. There's one thin difference. The harmful effects of uranium have two aspects. One is toxic, as a chemical element, which is extremely harmful to health and there the fixed norm of 0.1 micrograms, if exceeded, has direct harmful effect on the body. The second action has uranium, which is radiation, but it's an object, it makes 10 microsyverts there, it's subject to calculation and a study of how much a physical body at the given moment of the environment will absorb radiation. That's what we're looking for, the data is probably ready, they're in the D.A.'s office, and they're going to be notified to us. A distinction must be made between these two types of carcinogenicity of uranium as an element. Last but not least, I want to tell you this: there may be a lot of remarks to our work and we will accept everything and everything that you now decide, we will write it as a recommendation or supplement. Given that we have also given time limits regarding the power to get the process out of this lethargy, this is the strongest service and a serious step forward that we are doing for the benefit of citizens who live not only in Haskovo, but also in all these areas, which, if you have listened carefully, the President of the Commission announced over 15 districts in Bulgaria. There's no reason to panic! There's no cause for concern! Indeed, following the Commission's intervention, each institution shall inform the other in a timely manner and measures shall be taken. The second thing I want to say to you, and I want to finish: the battle continues. We will continue to see if the Interdepartmental Working Group has taken into account what we have recommended. We will continue to monitor whether they are at a good level measures and administrative-normal documents, which at a new level bring out the interaction of institutions, because if we really care about the people of Haskovo, we cannot close the issue here. Thirdly, it is not the Commission's job to issue assessments, sentences, qualifications or to do the work of the executive. I think it's pretty much your assessment. We have recommended on the basis of what we have seen, quite frankly, I sign to you that there is not a single document which has entered the Commission and is not subject to your attention. That is to say, we, and this is what I am really finishing because I promised you three times, we believe that by assessing the responsibility of the moment, the huge background of this significant problem, we have indicated quite critical of what it needs purely as an organgram, such as regulations, such as new legislation, as recommendations and as sanctions for a future countering this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Next statement Mr. Ibryamov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u116	Madam President, colleagues! Allow me to address the Temporary Commission report on the identification of hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination. Let me start from where my colleague Kostadinov finished when: We are not obliged to do the work of the executive authority, which is the case. Why did the Commission, which was investigating whether there were gaps in the procedure for a new fighter fighter, do the work of the executive?! When we set up a temporary committee of inquiry to see if there are gaps in the work of the executive, it is precisely to determine the reasons. The President of the Commission has read for forty minutes a comprehensive Report, a good job with findings. With great effort, we have made, I repeat, with great effort, we have made the ministers set up this Interdepartmental Working Commission. Congratulations to them and to the work of the Commission. However, colleagues, someone to point out to me in this Report the reasons why this Commission was created to establish who was at the root of pollution, which was established in March. We have had a deliberate meeting of questions with a debate with the ministers of the service, and this response in this report is missing. The answer why, who is the basis of the water in Haskovo to be contaminated, is missing in this report. And this was precisely the task of this Commission, so it was proposed at the beginning. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kolev, Mrs. Yoncheva is right here. The Commission did not receive this report from BAS. We have had very strict meetings and the reason why the Commission's work has been extended was precisely to obtain reliable reports to determine whether there is a risk to people's health. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will not support this report, we will abstain in the vote. I would like to state what, at the beginning, when this Temporary Commission was set up, our colleague said that when we want to suppress the tensions in society, set up a temporary committee to settle the problem. I sincerely hope that this Interdepartmental Commission, which is currently working, indeed, at each six-month period, will give objective analyses of the water well surveys carried out, but at the same time must also take measures for legislative changes, because during the hearing of experts from different departments, we have found that one part of the departments is governed by Regulation No 7 for example, while another office is governed by a European regulation concerning the condition of water, and by an underground regulation. All these misunderstandings lead to incomplete data in research. The main task that this Commission set itself, when it was created, to establish, I repeat, to establish who is at the heart of the pollution of the reservoirs, of the wells in Haskovo, this report does not state. We in the Commission have not found such a thing, and there are probably problems in other places, this is yet to be established. Perhaps, therefore, in the decisions proposed, in addition to adopting the Temporary Commission Report, the Interdepartmental Working Group should continue, both with the legislative initiatives to be taken and with the monthly survey, mostly at the reservoirs, water holding storage facilities to the water companies and most likely the key is there. Therefore, as I said just now, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will refrain from supporting this report. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u118	Madam President, honourable Members! Here's the line. We are in the same Commission, but we have obviously different interpretations because we come to different conclusions, and that is not bad in a way. Honourable Members, not accepting the Report, I am not talking about an assessment of our work, it may be the worst at the moment, not accepting the conclusions and recommendations of this Temporary Commission Report, which has been proposed by our parliamentary group and supported by you, will mean that we are not taking a decisive step towards improving the situation, clarifying the reasons and overcoming the problem for the residents of Haskovo and throughout the country. I'm telling you the most responsible thing. Failure to support the conclusions and conclusions of this Report means that we are not taking this small step. Since the closure of uranium mining has been since 1993, for nearly 24 years the state has done nothing on this issue. We offer you with our report to take a small step, however poorly we have done our job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u119	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Any other lines? I can't see. Will there be a hole, Mr. Ibryamov? There won't be. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Before I speak, I'm asking for a procedure. Please put to the vote the proposal to extend the working time today until the final report and the draft decision are adopted until the vote itself.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u121	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Please vote on the so-called procedure by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. They voted 147 MPs: 103, against 5, abstention 39. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u122	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will start from there that the Commission has indeed completed its main function for which it has been chosen. Whether or not any parliamentary group will support it, I would rather give it a political wish than the Commission's objective work. Because over the past few months, all the opposition party colleagues who just spoke have finally signed this report. If they had so many considerations about the work, or they did not like the Commission's findings, they should not ultimately have supported it in the Commission itself, but this, of course, is part of the parliamentary game, of having opposition and ruling. However, I will return to the problem where did this Commission really start, and what are its findings? When this Commission was created, Mrs. Yoncheva stressed it, for which I thank her, it was undoubtedly created with the will of all political groups and was on a money-saving principle, and was not with the participation of GERB or of the United Patriarchs, as a majority in it, each parliamentary group had two representatives, which guaranteed and was in order to have maximum objectivity of the conclusions that the Commission will make. I think that's what they really are so far. The first and most important task was to determine whether there was a risk to society, whether there was a risk to the people in Haskovo who live and use this water for their health. What has been established, I declare very strongly, can be checked this thing.. There is evidence that at the moment when the Regional Health Inspection has established increased standards of natural uranium in the water, provided for drinking-bit needs...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Here I very strongly want to say and to reassure people in other regions, not only in Haskovo, but also in other cities where there are similar problems related to the natural development of nature, that so far water that is not suitable for drinking for domestic and drinking needs has not been put into use and people can be calm. In my opinion, any such suggestion I do not know how to qualify them, but in any case they are not for the benefit of society, because, somehow, people, fooling them, are under the impression that some institutions are hiding some information from them that their health is threatened and so on. What one of our colleagues just said is absolutely true. You do not believe that any MP or director of the Regional Health Inspectorate, or Swimming Directorate, all these institutions that are involved in this problem, will hide such information in order to somehow endanger people's lives. I'm sorry, but it doesn't suit us as MPs. On the contrary, we need to convince citizens that institutions are doing their jobs, and if there is a gap, of course, our task is to look for the way they are solving them. That's the first point. The second point was to really identify the causes. Mr. Kostadinov, there's not a single colleague here who can tell us what the reasons are. In the end, yes, one hypothesis is that probably because of uranium mining at the time, undoubtedly gives some kind of reflection, we can't bend our soul. You have heard that most experts who were in the Commission have different opinions. Each opinion contradicted the previous one, which means that even the biggest specialists of professors, people who deal with this industry, can't tell a hundred percent where this pollution comes from. My answer to the question is that in the end, nature is something stronger than we are, and as much as we want to influence it, sometimes it is stronger and there is no escape from it. I'll give you an example. In Haskovo, the first few wells that were closed are already working because the water in them has cleared and the indicators that have been calculated now meet the requirements of Regulation No 9 on the health of the people. Therefore, this is an endless process over the years. That somehow here with the Haskovo case, right, some psychosis that we were trying to create, somehow the subject became popular. It is a topic decades back and the people, the institutions are constantly monitoring this pollution process, then clearing it out, but this is something that we, however much we want, cannot control. The third topic, which was important and found in the report, are the recommendations of this Commission. Undoubtedly, we can't help but mention this thing, and there are gaps mainly not in the way of sampling or something like that, but in the communication between the "Basaeino Directorate" between the institution that de facto looks at groundwater, between the water operators and between the Regional Health Inspectorate, which also monitors the water that we consume every day. There were certainly gaps that the Commission with its recommendations set a time limit, and the Interdepartmental Working Group will have to offer us as MPs and, in general, to other institutions in the executive power, what measures should be identified so that this communication is improved, that water monitoring is more honest, so that we can ensure that there will never be such an interinstitutional omission as to question whether people drink quality or poor water. I believe that the three important topics that the Commission had set itself have fulfilled. It is very important, that this is my understanding............................ not by our narrow party interests, to put society in a sense that people, MPs, all institutions are bad and no one is doing their job because it is not useful. It is not for a reason that Parliament has such a low rating for this very reason. Somehow the lack of respect and interinstitutional and between fellow Members of the National Assembly leads to such a feeling. I don't think it's right, no matter who's ruling or who's opposition. I would like to conclude by thanking all my colleagues, however. In the Commission, we have not once had any disagreement. Every single decision, I repeat, every single decision, the idea was with absolute consensus. Special congratulations for Mr. Kolev, who made the best efforts to satisfy each and every member of parliament for his requests. I would like to finally say that the people, the citizens not only in Haskovo, the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria can be assured that the water they consume is suitable for use, but where it is not. The institutions are doing their job and taking, taking, and I am sure that they will take into account, will have the appropriate reactions because I do not believe anyone to stand against the health of the people. That's a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Kostadinov, for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u124	Madam President, honourable Members! I use the form of a personal explanation, I do not make a line, because Mr. Nenkov and I agree on the issues that we quote. The personal explanation is in this regard: Mr. Nenkov, I was probably misunderstood. The main reason for this is the closure of uranium mining, but, unfortunately, in all these 24 years, there is also a subjective reason. The complex of objective and subjective cause gives the current result and condition. And the subjective reason is the neglect, neglect, nihilizing the importance of this problem by every single government that has been dealing with this issue since 1990. And in conclusion, in the part of a personal explanation: I therefore argue that the adoption of this report now of ours is a step forward towards unmasking, or exposing, or bringing light to the overall problem. The fight doesn't stop. The battle continues. There is still much to be done and we are the guarantor of this to clarify the real reasons and the real means by which we will solve the issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-25.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Colleagues, we're going to vote. "Project" DECISION on the report of the Temporary Commission on the identification of potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking water in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Adopts the report of the Temporary Commission on the identification of potentially dangerous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking waters in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens. 2. The report should be sent to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Environment and Water. Please vote. They voted 175 MPs: 137, against 16, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] Dear colleagues, with this time for today's plenary day is over. Tomorrow's regular plenary session at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
