ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u1	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. I will read to you the National Assembly Work Programme for 20 and 21 December 2017: 1. Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. Retire from the National Representative Ivaylo Konstantinov on 19 December 2017. 2. Projects of decisions on changes in permanent delegations. Importer is Tsvetan Tsvetanov on 14 December 2017. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 10 October 2017. First vote was adopted on 26 October 2017. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors. Bringers are Margarita Nikolova and a group of MPs on 25 October 2017. First vote was adopted on 1 December 2017. 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act. The representatives are Georgi Kolev and a group of MPs on 3 November 2017. 6. Second vote on the Anti-Corruption Act and the forfeiture of illegally acquired property. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 6 October 2017. The first vote was adopted on 25 October 2017. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018. Point one for Thursday. This item was included in the Programme for the Work of the National Assembly by the Conference of Presidents, where it was supported by the signatures of the chairmen of parliamentary groups to be seen as the first item on Thursday. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending the Public Libraries Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 9 October 2017. He was accepted at the first vote on 23 November 2017. Point two for Thursday. 9. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2017. Adopted at first vote on 23 November 2017. The third item on Thursday. 10. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2017. Point four for Thursday. 11. The first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention prohibiting the use, storage, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and their destruction. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 27 November 2017. 12. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act. Importers are Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 4 October 2017. Adopted at first vote on 26 October 2017. 13. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act. Importers were Stanislava Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 15 November 2017. The first vote was adopted on 29 November 2017. Colleagues, I put to the vote the read agenda for the work of the National Assembly on 20 and 21 December. Vote 197 MPs: 173, none, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. Colleagues who have submitted drafts and resolutions from 13 December 2017 to 19 December 2017: A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. The importer is Christian Mitev. It has been allocated to a leading Committee on Legal Affairs. It's a voluntary bill. Importers are Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft decision to change the composition and direction of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the South East European Cooperation Process. Importer is Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Draft decision on change in the management of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Interparliamentary Union. Importer is Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. Importers are Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to a leading Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. A bill to amend the law on local self-government and local administration. Importers are Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. A bill on cemeteries, cemetery parks, funerals, crematoriums and funeral-ritual activities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers are Vejdi Rashidov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. Proposal for a debate on questions No 754 05-56/22 November 2017 by the MPs Dimitar Danchev and a group of MPs. Importers are Dimitar Danchev and a group of MPs. The question is to Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on the policy for the construction of e-government. Draft amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. Draft Law amending the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund by Mrs Cornelia Ninova. Distributed to the Committee on Budget and Finance. This bill will be withdrawn and considered tomorrow as the first point, as I told you just now, with the consent of all the chairmen of parliamentary groups who have signed this bill. A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2017 to 20 December 2017. Import is the Commission for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Information on consumer price indices for November 2017 was received in a communication from the National Statistical Institute. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: TERMINATION OF THE FULL POWER OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. An application has been made by Ivaylo Lyubenov, Member of Parliament from the 10th Election Region of Kyustendilski: "Dear Madam President, On the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I wish to terminate my powers as a Member of Parliament with a decision of the National Assembly. Respectfully: Ivaylo Lyubenov Konstantinov Are there any speeches? I can't see. I suggest to your attention: Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts Ivaylo Lyubenov's authority as MP from the 10th Election Region "Kustendilski." Please, voting mode. Vote 173 MPs: 156, against 6, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. With this Mr. Konstantinov was released at his request as a representative of the National Assembly. Let us thank him for his participation in the Forty - Fourth National Assembly. [[Applause.]] Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING DELEGATIONS. Importer is Tsvetan Tsvetanov on 14 December 2017: Dear Madame Chairman! On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I submit a draft decision for a change in the management of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Interparliamentary Union. Please provide the draft decision to be submitted for consideration and voting in accordance with the established order. Project! DECISION amending the management of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Interparliamentary Union The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Dimitar Borisov Glauchev as Head of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly in the Interparliamentary Union. 2. Releases Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva as Deputy Head of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly in the Interparliamentary Union. 3. Chooses Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva as Head of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly in the Interparliamentary Union 4. He elected Dimitar Borisov Glavchev as Deputy Head of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly in the Interparliamentary Union. Please vote. Vote 176 MPs: 160, against 2, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. There was a second proposal: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I submit a draft decision on a change in the composition and management of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Cooperation Process in South East Europe. Please provide the draft decision for consideration and voting in accordance with the established order. DECISION on a change in the composition and direction of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the South East European Cooperation Process The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Dimitar Borisov Glauchev as Head of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Cooperation Process in Southeast Europe. 2. He elected Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva as Head of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Cooperation Process in South East Europe. Please, voting mode. Vote 157 MPs: 142 against 1, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Moving on to item three of the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF LAWPROLECTING THE LAW TO REFUN THE ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATION AND CONTROL OF THE SPANISH ACTION. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In addition to the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business, No 702 01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 October 2017, adopted at the first vote on 26 October 2017. Name of the legal act: The Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of the business. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u3	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 142 MPs: 137, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u4	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Where requirements relating to the criminality of a natural person are introduced in a legal act, the necessary data for the Bulgarian citizens shall be established by the administrative authority concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u5	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 1 in the version of the Commission, according to the report. Vote 141 MPs: 137, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u6	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 and shall replace the words of the court's status with the court's jurisdiction. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u7	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I vote on the name of the division and paragraphs 2 to 8 inclusive. Vote 139 MPs: 137, none, abstention 2. The proposals were adopted and the name of the division and paragraphs 2 to 8 included.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u8	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 9 by proposing the following wording: ..................................................... In the Law on Administration (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: para 14 is created. The requirement of non-condemnence for appointment to the administration shall be established by the appointing authority in a professional capacity. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 19th para is The requirement of non-condemning in the election or appointment of the executive bodies and their alternates shall be established by the appointing authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u9	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote § 9 in the version of the Commission, according to the report. They voted 139 MPs: for 139 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u10	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 12 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: The circumstances referred to in art. 11, para. 1, t. 5 shall be established by the National Assembly. 2. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5, and in it the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u11	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 10 to 14 including § 15 in the version of the Commission, according to the report. Vote 142 MPs: for 141, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u12	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, and the words "towards' shall be replaced by "analogical'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, i.e. 2 the word "supplied' is replaced by "analogical'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, and shall replace the words The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 and the word "supplied' shall be replaced by "analogical'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u13	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote § 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26 with the corresponding editorials made to § 17, 19, 20 and 23. Vote 131 MPs: for 131, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u14	Thank you, Madam President. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 27, but as it is contained in the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products, it proposes that § 27 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u15	I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 27. Vote 119 MPs: 115 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u16	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29 which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 29. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 30: 30. In the Law on Child Protection (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 2: (aa) points 1 and 2 are repealed; (bb) c. 4 the word "persons" shall be replaced by the citizens concerned, after the words "the foreigners" shall be added and the word "juridics" shall be replaced by "juridics." (b) Paragraph 3 shall be created. 6: The circumstances of para. 1, t. 4 for Bulgarian citizens and legal entities are established by the State Agency for Child Protection. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 2 words. 2, p. 1-4 is replaced by............................................................................................... 2, p. (b) in para. 3 words...................................................................................... 43c, para. 2, p. 2 and 3 and 3 shall be replaced by the............................................................................................................ 43c, para. 2, p. The following information shall be provided in
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u17	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote those supported by the Commission § 28, which shall become § 27; respectively, § 29, which shall become § 28; § 30, which shall become § 29; and § 31, which shall become § 30 in the version of the Commission, according to the report. 130 MPs voted: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 35, and their words shall be replaced by their jurisdiction. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 37, which becomes § 36, and everywhere the word
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u19	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote from § 32, which shall take place with a new numbering § 31 to § 35 with a new numbering § 34 inclusive. They voted 136 MPs: 133, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote § 36, which becomes § 35; § 37, which becomes § 36, with the corresponding editorial amendment. 125 MPs voted: 124, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u20	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In the Financial Supervision Commission Act in art. 4, the so-called al. 4 becomes para. 6: The circumstances of para. 2, p. 1 shall be established by the administration of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u21	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 38, which shall become § 37 in the version of the Commission, according to the report. They voted 121 MPs: 121, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u22	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 39, which becomes § 38, and everywhere the words "the judicial status" shall be replaced by "court-martiality" and the word "supplied" shall be replaced by "analogue."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u23	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote § 39, which shall take place with a new numbering § 38, which the Commission shall support, with the corresponding editorial amendment. Vote 127 MPs: for 126, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u24	Under § 40, there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov, in accordance with Article 40. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40, which shall become § 39: .............................................................................. In the Law on concessions (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 121, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: the Convention does not have the right to require the presentation of evidence of facts and circumstances referred to in the first sentence: 1. which are accessible through an electronic public free register, or 2. where the information, respectively the access to that information for them, is provided by the relevant competent authority of the concession holder. 2. In § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, paragraph 4 shall be inserted. 3: "3." paragraph 34, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u25	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u26	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! This paragraph is different from the paragraphs that you have put to the vote so far, and we have supported, so I allow myself to take the floor and introduce you to our opinion. Paragraph 40 refers to amendments to the Law on concessions and, in its first version, it was nothing different from the previous paragraphs and would also be supported by us, namely: quite normal in the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business, given the principle of complex administrative service and reduction of that burden, it was necessary for administrative authorities to professionally collect any necessary information in the procedures. Contrary to all this, with the proposed changes right in the Law on concessions, which was adopted, was promulgated and entered into force from the beginning of next year, it is envisaged that everything you have voted on, contrary to the principle of complex administrative service, keeping the work of the administration, so to speak on paper. It turns the principle upside down. In specific cases, the administrative authority will collect specific information on a professional basis, and in all other cases the participants in the procedures will have to submit it on paper. In only two exceptional cases they will be collected by the administrative authority, so we will not support the proposal for § 40. I point out that if he had been preserved in his first version, namely: the administration to collect information for his own good, we would have supported him as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I shall take account of the next point of the proposed paragraph. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 is proposed to us by § 34 of the newly voted Law on concessions, its entry into force to be postponed on 1 January 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, what is this about? It's about the concession on sea beaches. During the discussion of the Law on concessions in the Legal Commission and then, to some extent, there was a dispute in the Chamber. This time, the dispute was not between government and opposition. The dispute was between two representatives of the government "The Ministry of Tourism," on the one hand, Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov, on the other. Deputy Prime Minister Simeonov insisted that concessions on sea beaches should be given according to the new order under the Law on concessions, while the Ministry of Tourism quite rightly must say, he insisted that this should happen under the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, as it is at the moment. BSP had made a proposal precisely in this direction to remain a special regime for the submission of concessions to this special type of sites. After all, the majority decided: beaches will be granted concessions under the Law on concessions, on a rather different one, can be said to be heavier, but according to some more transparent procedure. However, with the current proposal, we do so that this text will not enter into force until one year. This is not in itself a controversial legislative technique, only that it is about pending concessions, which will be committed for up to 20 years. In fact, we postpone the new concession regime on sea beaches by one year, exlegé, but practically 20 years. What does that tell us? On the one hand, it is essentially clear that most beaches will give in to the old order of concession, but, on the other hand, on the idea of politics I think that this is clear proof that the ruling majority has absolutely no stable vision of how and in what order it wants to manage this national resource, which are the Bulgarian beaches. One day, when one of them takes over, one vote is cast. Then in some discussions that are not very clear and visible, clearly prevails otherwise. So we change laws in the day or right after they're promulgated. This is not a sustainable policy, and when we talk about sea beaches and environmental protection and concessions, sustainability is perhaps the most important, even more important, than the decision itself.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Mr. Kirilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u30	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Zarkov, I agree with your correct statement regarding disputes in the Legal Commission. I'm not gonna get into their big talk. I do not agree with the conclusions you make in political terms as well as the calculations by year. In order for there to be no dispute, and on the contrary, we have five proceedings in proceedings that are in the legal phase of a dispute. With regard to them, it is appropriate to maintain the specific regime. With regard to leaking and upcoming procedures, there the numbers differ, and, basically, as you said, the two sides indicate different numbers, probably not more than 10 to 20 such procedures. Once again, there's a dispute in numbers. But these procedures, referred to the total number of beaches, which are generally in concession mode, and they are over 300, is a minor part. I cannot support your thesis and understanding that something has been delayed for 20 years. Simply for the sake of stability, clarity and predictability of the procedures in this service sector and not to sabotage the next tourist season, we offer this openness, clarity of the time until 1 January 2019. I also point out that, as well as interpreting the application of the Law, if the concession on the relevant beach falls within the category of "transitional concession', that is, a large concession with significant interest, it is undeniable that the Law on concessions applies and not the Law on the Black Sea coast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Will there be a hole, Mr. Zarkov? No. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we continue to support the thesis that we maintained during the second reading of the Law on concessions and which we maintained when examining this proposal in the Law on amendment and supplement to the Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business. We believe that the delay will not affect only and only, as my colleague Kirilov said, the welded cases. In practice, the postponement of § 34's actions will also apply to the granting of new concessions. There is no other logic and another way to interpret the recording that is made in this t. 2 to § 40. In this regard, as we have no objections to this point. 1, I propose a separate vote on item 1. 1 and 2 of the Commission proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u33	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any lines to Mr. Mitev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Mitev's proposal for a separate vote on item. 1 et c. 2 of § 40, which becomes § 39. They voted 144 MPs: 129, against 2, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. I'm voting on it. 1 in § 40 in the version of the Commission, according to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u34	Points 1 and 2 together, t. 3 separate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u35	Points 1 and 2 together, t. 3... separately. Once again: I am voting § 40 in the version of the Commission, p. One and two, according to the report. They voted 145 MPs: 113, none, abstention 32. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 40 in the version of the Commission, according to the report, i.e. 3. They voted 143 MPs: 100, against 6, abstention 37. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u36	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 40. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 41, and the words shall be replaced by an equivalent. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 43, which becomes § 42, and the word The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 44, which becomes § 43, and everywhere the words The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 45, which becomes § 44, and everywhere the words The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 45. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 47, which shall become § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Act for the Ministry of Interior (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 129, para. 5 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." for foreign nationals representing the person under para. 1 "Analog of a document of criminality under the national law of another State, stating that they are not convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature, and for the Bulgarian citizens this fact is established in a court of law; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 155 is created. 4. The circumstances of para. 1, t. 2 shall be established by the appointing authority in service.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u37	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of § 41 to § 47, which shall become § 46 by the version of the Commission. Vote 117 MPs: 104, none, abstention 13. The texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u38	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 47. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 49, which becomes § 48, and the words "the judicial status' shall be replaced by "the justice', and the word "the institution' shall be replaced by "the institution'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 49. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52, which shall become § 51. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53, which shall become § 52. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u39	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any statements on the paragraphs that have been proposed? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the proposals from § 48 to § 54, which shall become § 53. 110 MPs voted: 98, against 2, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u40	Under § 55, there is a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev in accordance with Article 55. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 55 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 54, and the words shall be replaced by analogs. Under paragraph 57, there is a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev in accordance with Article 57. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 57 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u41	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote § 56, which becomes § 54. They voted 108 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Christian Mitev to drop § 57, supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 58, which becomes § 55, and the words "the judicial status' shall be replaced by "the judicial status', and the word "supplied' shall be replaced by "analog'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become § 56. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 60, which shall become § 57, and the words corresponding to the importer shall be replaced by analogs. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 61, which shall become § 58. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 62, which shall become § 59: ............... 59................................................................... The Special Intelligence Means Act shall make the following amendments and additions: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19c is created para. 10: The circumstances under para. 4 t. 4 shall be established by the appointing authority in service. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 the words of the Court of Justice shall be deleted; (b) in para. 2 sentence first, at the end of the day, is added
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u43	Are there any speeches? I won't. I am voting from § 58, which becomes § 55 to § 62, which becomes § 59 in the version of the Commission. Vote 107 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u44	Thank you. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 63, which shall become § 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64, which shall become § 61. Dear Mr. President, I would like the floor of Paragraph 64 so that I can make an editorial proposal. On the basis of art. 84, para. The second sentence of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I am making an editorial amendment: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 of § 64 by 1. The letter "b" is amended as follows: (b) The previous para. 3 and 4 become respectively. 4 and 5 2. The following point shall be inserted: (c) the previous para. 5 and 6 become respectively. 6 and 7 and in them the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) Motives: as the previous para. 5 and 6 of art. 19 which become respectively para. 6 and 7 refer to para. 3, which becomes para. 4 those paragraphs should contain the correct reference to para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u45	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I put to the vote § 64, which becomes § 61 with the editorial amendment that was made. They voted 101 MPs: 92, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u46	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 65, which becomes § 62, and the words of the court-martial is replaced by the court-martial, and the word "supplied" is replaced by "sanitary." The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 66, which becomes § 63, and the words the court's status (s) shall be replaced by the court's jurisdiction (s) and the word (s) shall be replaced by analogy. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 67, which shall become § 64. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 68, which shall become § 65. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 69, which shall become § 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u47	I shall put to the vote the wording of Paragraph 65, which shall become § 62 to § 68, which shall become § 65. They voted 108 MPs: 99, none, abstentioned 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u48	The colleagues point out that in this vote we have failed to mention § 69. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 69, which shall become § 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u49	I put to the vote § 69, which becomes § 66. They voted 107 MPs: 95, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u50	Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 67: ................. In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service in § 52 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the words
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u51	Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! It cannot be excluded that, with this paragraph, by simply changing a date from 1 January 2018 on 1 October 2019, we are actually going to do something extremely important. The Civil Service Act introduced a very good principle: all people who will be civil servants should be centrally selected with a centralized competition, as the magistrates are selected. These changes from 2016 deserve approval. With the change of this text, we postpone by nearly two years at the end of 2019 to put these good principles into effect. This means that every administration should continue to do independent competitions and appoint civil servants on its own, which is a prerequisite for other practices, so we will not support this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u53	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. We are going to vote on proposals from the Commission new § 67. They voted 107 MPs: for 67, against 8, abstention 32. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u54	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 70 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u55	Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm voting § 70. They voted 104 MPs: 89, against 2, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u56	Under § 71, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniel Kirilov in accordance with Article 71. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 71, which shall become § 68: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Law shall enter into force from 1 January 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u57	I put to the vote § 71, which becomes § 68. Voted 103 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR CONTROL OF NARCOTIC INGREDIENTS AND PRECURSORS. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u58	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be allowed in plenary Mr. Lachezar Borisov "Deputy Minister of Economy."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u59	Please vote on admission to the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Economy Mr. Lachezar Borisov. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. Please invite Mr. Borisov to the hall. Mrs. Daritkova, come in for the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention a report on the second vote. Dear Mr President, from a legal and technical point of view, it is more correct to report, discuss and vote the texts of the proposed provisions of § 1, 2 and 3, and then to report and put to the vote the name of the Law, as this depends on the vote in plenary. With regard to the arguments put forward, I suggest, firstly, reporting, discussing and voting on the paragraphs in question, and then returning to the name of the Law. According to § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs: the following point is inserted after point 4a (Commission ................................................................................... Art. Art. 5a. Mixtures intended for industry containing narcotics listed under art. 3, para. 2, p. 3 can be used in production processes under conditions, requirements and in order laid down by a decree of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Health. Art. 5b. (1) Import and intra-Community supplies into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of mixtures under art. 5a may carry out a natural or legal person registered as a trader under Bulgarian law or under the legislation of another Member State of the European Union. (2) Imports and supplies under para. 1 as well as the use of mixtures in the production process shall be carried out after authorisation by the Minister of Economy, issued in accordance with the order and model set out in the ordinance under art. 5a. (3) In the case of import and intra-Community supply of mixtures under art. 5a Customs authorities shall require the presentation of the authorisation under para. 2 and carry out ex post customs controls. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) Art. 5a. (1) Import, export, transport, processing, storage, incorporation and use in the manufacturing process of mixtures intended for industry containing narcotics listed in art. 3, para. 2, p. 3 may be carried out under conditions and by order laid down in a regulation of the Minister of Economy, subject to the following requirements: 1. the quantity of the narcotic substance shall not exceed the percentage of the relevant mixtures defined in the regulation; 2. the drug substance cannot be used directly and/or extracted by easily accessible or economically advantageous means. (2) In the ordinance under para. 1 shall also be indicated and the names of the drugs listed under art. 3, para. 2, p. 3 which may be contained in mixtures intended for industry. Art. 5b. (1) Import, export, transport, processing, storage, incorporation and use in the production process of mixtures under art. 5a may carry out a natural or legal person registered as a trader under Bulgarian law or under the legislation of another Member State of the European Union. (2) The persons under para. 1 may carry out import and export of mixtures within the meaning of this law, and/or incorporation and use in the production process of mixtures under art. 5a after notification to the Ministry of Economy. The order of submission and the model of notification shall be determined by the Minister of Economy in the ordinance under art. 5a, para. 1. Art. 5c. (1) The notification under art. 5b, para. 2 shall be submitted to the Minister of Economy and shall contain the following data: 1. For import and/or use in the production process of mixtures under art. 5a: (a) name and data of the trader's EIC, and for companies registered in a Member State of the European Union, or in a Member State of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, a document on the current registration under national law issued by the competent authority of the State of the person concerned under art. 5b, para. 1; (b) the location of the buildings and premises where the production process will be carried out with mixtures under art. 5a; (c) the type and quantity of the mixture intended for the industry containing a narcotic substance listed under art. 3, para. 2, p. 3; (d) the type and quantity of the narcotic substance as a percentage of the mixture referred to in point (c); (e) the country from which imports will be made. 2. In case of export of mixtures under art. 5a: (a) name and data of the trader's EIC, and for companies registered in a Member State of the European Union, or in a Member State of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, a document on the current registration under national law issued by the competent authority of the State of the person concerned under art. 5b, para. 1; (b) the type and quantity of the mixture intended for the industry containing a narcotic substance listed under art. 3, para. 2, p. 3; (c) the type and quantity of the narcotic substance as a percentage of the mixture referred to in point (b). (d) the country in which exports will take place. (2) To the notification under art. 5b, para. 2 documents certifying the data under para. 2 shall apply. 1, t. 1 or t. 2, the content, form and requirements of the relevant documents shall be defined in the ordinance under art. 5a, para. 1. (3) The Ministry of Economy shall establish and maintain an up-to-date list of the notifications made under art. 5b, para. 2 which also contains the data under para. 1, t. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. You have the floor to speak. Come in, Mr. Mihailov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We have had enough in-depth discussion in the Committee on Health and we maintain our proposal for the following reasons: we believe that the problem of controlling imports, production and control of waste products are extremely serious interest in terms of the Law on the Control of Drugs and Percursors. The proposal we have made is the regulation to be drawn up by the Council of Ministers with the participation of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Health. What we care about is control of the raw material entering the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, control of the transport of raw material from the border to the place of production, and control of waste products. In this sense, since the matter is quite specific, Dr. Daritkova very carefully read all the paragraphs, but a person who is not familiar with it is difficult to navigate. We believe that there is also a high dose of reason in the proposal of colleagues. The differences are in some nuances, but we hold on to our proposal and we will try further to argue it if necessary. Thank you for your attention, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u63	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Any other speeches? Come in for a speech, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is common opinion and we have united around the idea of the possibility of investment intentions which go through the use of mixtures containing drugs in no way giving the chance of endangering the lives of citizens. Therefore, the proposal that we have made is extremely thorough and concerns all processes of entry of these substances. In the text I have read, I believe that you are convinced that there is no moment in the presence of these substances from their entry into the territory of our country to their use in the undertaking concerned, which is not covered by our proposal. The two significant differences between what the fellow Members have proposed are mainly in the direction that they require authorisation to introduce the requirements and these are additional obligations to the customs authorities. The authorisation regime is a new procedure, we have put in notice. This requires mandatory notification of the texts, and notification implies a delay by about six months, because this is the period within which the European Commission is responsible. In this sense, I believe that the notification regime and the regulation to be issued by the Ministry provides sufficient guarantees that we will have transparency and control over the companies implementing these procedures. That is why I believe that our proposal is in the context of existing European law and ensures that what we want is both you and we as opportunities to control the processes. The other text, which substantially distinguishes your proposal and our proposal, is with regard to the regulation. In our view, the regulation should be only by the Ministry of Economy, because the Ministry of Health has no competence in the field of industry. In this sense, the regulations are generally issued by the portfolio ministries. As the Ministry of Economy has no competence with regard to drug control, in this sense, and when it comes to industry mixtures, it is logical that only the Ministry of Economy should rule. These are the essential differences. I believe that, in the course of the discussion, we have given the authorities and ministries that will be involved an opportunity for a proposal that guarantees all of our intentions in its directions, on the one hand, for the realization of investment intentions and in another direction for the protection of public health.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. You have the floor for lines. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Dr. Daritkova, you highlighted the differences in our proposals. I would like to draw attention to honourable colleagues that the Drug Control Act is executed primarily and mostly by the Ministry of Health. This is about part of the raw material, which is a drug substance, and there is no way that only the Ministry of Economy, in our professional opinion, is involved in both drafting the Ordinance and implementing it afterwards in practice. Secondly, I would like to mention once again, during the first discussion, I have paid attention to you, honourable Members, that there are two texts that now respect the honourable Dr Daritkova, who, to me as a professional, sound too general. One is that it is a percentage of the substance from the raw material, and from the point of view of the modern possibilities of synthesis, I have taken the liberty of telling you that it is possible to extract....in such large quantities that will be used in the production, significant quantities, with the possibilities of synthesis, where the percentage content does not have a serious value as an indication of the legislator in entry, as a text in the Law. Secondly, it also sounds very general to the second point, which the honourable Dr. Daritkova received with economic benefits. This is a very general formulation. We have drawn attention to the discussion in the Commission that these are brought in by existing, but too outdated, legislative forms that should be refined at the level of 2017. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u67	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Do you want a hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u68	Dear colleagues, the meaning and spirit of the proposals from first reading are respected by being refined. Of course, everyone has the opportunity to fight to the very last for their proposals, but, first, when we use terms in the new Articles 5................................................................................ 5 and that is precisely the term that can be exempted from certain control measures. That's where the subject exists to be used by easy means. I'm sorry, I'm going to read exactly how the lyrics were.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u69	It's economically profitable.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u70	In this sense, I would like to specify that when we make a change concerning a whole new subject matter, the use of mixtures containing narcotics for industry, we use the official terms in force. At the same time, by betting and introducing this terminology, I would like to emphasise that the Ministry of Health has scope in terms of the Law, but only in the texts concerning medicinal products. Industry texts are first introduced as opportunities for use. I do not think that in your proposal you have been sufficiently comprehensive when you do not write percentage content for mixtures, because that is what you have written. In general, you wrote a letter. Isn't that more precise? Or are the texts more precise that we have just proposed to you? For the other two significant differences. I would like to reiterate to my fellow Members that they will delay the implementation of the Law if we have to carry out a notification regarding the authorisation regime. Therefore, let us not fall into a personal individual ambition to solve the problems of existing legislative deficits and enable the Ministry of Economy to implement the regulation that we will be able to subsequently control and control the processes, we may react to the amendment of public relations that will follow the introduction of this Law, but at this stage we have fully complied with the opinions of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Health, the Customs Agency, which support our proposals and not yours, Professor Mihailov, and which are in line with the spirit of the Law proposed at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Before I give the floor for further speeches, I would like to propose to you, honourable Members, that we congratulate the mayors and municipal councilors from the municipality of Rouen, who are visiting the National Assembly. [[Applause.]] We continue with the speeches. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u72	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to draw attention to the fact that once again we are reminded that we must hurry to adopt a law that we have delayed for so long ourselves.........................why we should have waited until now to accept it and then, eventually, if we have to change it again. You do understand that this is an unserious job in legislative work, when the justification for not introducing an authorisation regime is the six-month delay in this action. It is clear to all of us that the problem is purely investment interest, it is clear to us all that by the end of the year, if we do not adopt this Law and the relevant provisions are not adopted, there will be no such investment in Bulgaria. We will all support this investment because it is about jobs, and it is in a region where these places are kat, but let us still take our legislative action seriously. When we were talking about an authorisation regime, we meant really this subtlety that it was about drugs, true in List No 3, not heavy, but nevertheless those that could be used could be extracted and then distributed on the market. With all the consequences here, Dr. Daritkova, I don't want to explain to you what drugs on the market means. You know it better than I do. I mean purely professional, not something else. When we proposed this regime, we meant that we must, in the strictest way, control imports of such raw materials. Moreover, what we are proposing, especially for subsequent customs controls, is in no form contrary to European legislation, because this means that at all times the competent import authorities or intra-Community supply will be monitored to put the two things on the same plane. They're not aligned, they're different, but we put them in control so we can know at any given moment where, what, and how it happens. If you're more interested, you can open the Customs Act and see what the next customs control means................................................................................................. I can't understand why we're taking the shit out of a department that's more interested in not doing one extra job. I don't want to insinuate from which there won't be any extra income. It's about something that's extremely important. This raw material must cross the border, it must be controlled to where it will go, it must be controlled how it will be used to the last gram, in order to have no doubt afterwards that there has been an abuse of it. We will not withdraw our proposal, although I understand what the proposals are. I am convinced that at the beginning of next year, or in the first six months of it, we will change this Law again. But what I would like to address once again is that this Ordinance should be issued by the Council of Ministers, because in the end there are three departments involved and interested in imports: the Ministry of Economy - because these are raw materials for production, the Ministry of Health, because there are still substances in there for which the Ministry of Economy is not aware, we are not making a law for one substance only, but we are making a general Law and the Ministry of Health must also have some contribution to this thing, and the customs that are subject to the Ministry of Finance, that is, the Council of Ministers is the one that can adopt a regulation that covers all the obligations of the individual institutions in carrying out this task. Once again, I say that we will support, anyway, this proposal, this bill, because we are not against jobs. On the contrary, we have always sought to help Bulgarian entrepreneurs and foreign entrepreneurs who create jobs that create an economically favourable climate, but please, the next time we discuss this Law, remember what I told you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. You have the floor for lines of speech. There are no lines. Any other speeches? There are no speeches. We're going to vote on § 1. We are voting on a proposal from MP Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs for amendment to § 1. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: 45, against 10, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the wording of § 1 with the version made by the Commission. 120 MPs voted: 118, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u74	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 16b: Art. 16b. The Minister of Economy or officials authorised by him shall exercise control over the import, export, transport, processing, storage, incorporation and use of mixtures intended for the industry containing narcotic substances listed under art. 3, para. 2, p. 3 as well as control in compliance with the requirements of art. 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m., 5 a.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the wording of § 2. They voted 121 MPs: 117, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u76	There is a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs. screated § 1a: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 100a which does not comply with the requirements of art. Art. 5a or art. 5b is punished with a fine of 50,000. lv. up to 100,000. BGN and in The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 3: .................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 100a which does not comply with the requirements of art. 5a, as well as the requirements of art. 5b or par. 2, is punished with a fine from 5000 to 10,000. BGN and in case of repeated infringement with a fine of 10 thousand. lv. 15,000. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. You have the floor to speak. There are no willing ones. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Mihailov. They voted 113 MPs: 39, against 39, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal for § 3 supported by the Commission. Vote 116, MPs: 114, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We return to the title in relation to the votes carried out under paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u78	The Act for the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Control of Drug Substances and Drug Chargers. There is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of the name of the Law: The law on the control of narcotics and drug users and the law on the addition of the law on the control of narcotics.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u79	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposed proposal for the title of the Law. Vote 111, MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here's a closing provision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u80	'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u81	We are voting on the name "Concluding provision." Vote 109 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u82	According to § 2 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 2 is amended as follows: ..................................................... The regulation under art. 5a shall be issued within one month of the entry into force of the Law. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 4: ............................................ Within 2 months of the entry into force of this Law, the Minister of Economy shall issue the ordinance under art. 5a, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u83	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I take the floor of the last paragraph to express my thanks: to my colleagues, to my colleague Dr. Mihailov, to Dr. Daritkova for working very hard towards strengthening control and improving control in this bill. To BSP colleagues for showing, as well as colleagues from the government, that when it comes to an investment development position, we are united. Mr. Tsvetanov, for helping and helping the Law to go the most unobtrusively, as well as to the leadership of the National Assembly and to the President of the Economic Commission, who, although on his birthday, is here to support the promotion of investments. Thank you, everyone. [[Applause from all parliamentary groups.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u85	After these thanks, we're going to vote. Firstly, we are voting on the proposal of MP Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 31, against 10, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 4 in the version of the Commission. Vote 117 MPs: 113, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 4 of the Final provision was adopted and thus the Law. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE HEALTH LAW. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u86	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act No 754-01-77, submitted by Georgi Kolev and a group of MPs on 3 November This Decision shall At its regular meeting on 14 December 2017, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 754-01-77, submitted by Georgi Kolev and a group of MPs on 3 November 2017. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova, representatives of trade unions, word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by one of the importers Mr. Georgi Kolev. It shall inform the Members of the National Assembly that the proposed amendments and additions aim at dropping the current absolute ban on members of the Territorial Expert Committees (TELK) and of the National Expert Committee (NELK) to carry out activities which are subject to their control, as well as to carry out advisory activities relating to the type and extent of damage, temporary incapacity and permanent reduced performance. The proposed regulatory changes will enable medical expertise in the TelK and NELK compositions to be able to participate doctors who perform medical and diagnostic activities, providing restrictions only on participation in the committees of a doctor who is associated with a specific certified person in one of the ways indicated in the Bill. In these cases, doctors will be obliged to withdraw from participation in the specific meeting of the relevant expert medical committee. The proposed Bill aims to create conditions for overcoming the lack of specialists willing to work in the medical expertise system and will enable qualified medical professionals to be involved in medical and diagnostic activities. Mr. Kolev pointed out that one of the main reasons for the lack of specialists who are motivated to work in the medical expertise system at the moment, along with low pay, is precisely the current ban on exercising activities that are subject to their control and to carrying out advisory activities related to the type and extent of damage and the expertise for temporary and permanent reduced performance. The adoption of the regulatory changes will contribute to the creation of an opportunity to complete the compositions of TelK with sufficient and qualified medical professionals, which in turn will shorten the time limits of their work and significantly improve the access of patients to medical expertise bodies. The Bill also proposes dropping the requirement in the specialized compositions of NELK to include a doctor.. Representative of the National Insurance Institute (NSI). The participation of representatives of the NEI in the specialized medical groups of NELK is not necessary, given the functions and activities of the medical committees of NEI under art. 98, para. 4 of the Social Security Code and the proposal aims to avoid duplication of the activities of these experts. As Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova expressed support for the proposed amendments and additions to the Health Act in order to regulate the possibility for members of TelK and NELK to carry out activities which are subject to their control and to carry out advisory activities related to the type and extent of damage, temporary incapacity and permanently reduced performance. The written opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and of the National Insurance Institute expresses principle support for the bill under consideration, proposing that during the second vote of the Bill the proposed withdrawal of the requirement in the specialized compositions of NELK should necessarily include a doctor of the NEI. According to the two institutions, the claim that there is duplication of functions could not be accepted as the activities of the medical committees to the NSI have other objectives and tasks and are carried out as a stage in the proceedings for the award of invalidity pensions and the addition to foreign aid. In the light of the arguments put forward, the participation of NSI experts in the issuing of decisions on the determination of permanently reduced work capacity, the type and extent of damage, the causal link, the date of disability, disability and foreign assistance, is justified and necessary. In the course of the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health expressed support for the proposed Draft and agreed on the opinion that to improve the activities of medical expertise it is necessary to carry out a comprehensive review of the regulations in this area and to take complex measures that will lead to the lasting resolution of the problems and challenges accumulated in the system over the years. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the draft amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 754-01-77, submitted by Georgi Kolev and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 3 November 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Will the importer's motives be presented? I don't see any preparation in that direction. We are now going to discuss the tabled bill. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. [[Heckling]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! During the discussion in the Committee on Health, I made some remarks regarding the submitted bill, but now I think that these things should come between the first and second votes. I believe that what has been imported also has to do with some other members of the Health Act. I will retain my right between first and second readings to make these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Are there any other speeches? Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My speech is going to be very brief: I would rather ask the importers a few questions, because the way the project has been tabled, there is no answer to the questions I want to ask right now. First of all, the proposed changes aim to strengthen the compositions of TELLK, as the medical expertise of workability is extremely difficult at the present time. But it is not a question of how the new posts will be financed, because in the adopted budget of the state and of the National Health Insurance Fund there are no additional funds provided for the additional unknown number of new TELMs. This will create an extremely serious problem, because if, for example, we assume that in each of the 28 Telks in the country they enter 5, 10 or unknown how much at this stage there is no such clarity, it is not clear how much this will cost the budget. Next, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy at the end of last month submitted to the National Assembly the concept of reform, generally speaking, of TELMK. In this Concept there are several views that are consistent with the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. It is not clear how these proposals fit into the new TELK Reform Concept. Can it at some point be that the adopted or the texts that will now be adopted as amendments to the Health Act will come into conflict with the idea of the working group, which has been working for several months with the Minister of Labour and Social Policy? I want to hear answers to these questions because it is obvious that there is a need to strengthen the telk compositions. It is clear that the people who work there are currently underpaid. If the aim is in any way to increase its remuneration with a job once in the medical establishment, once in the TELK to it, because TELK is the structure of the medical establishment, and the second time in the outpatient care, if this is the way to increase the income of medical professionals, I strongly disagree. From this point of view, the other question arises: on what employment contracts will be the doctors who will work at TelK? All these questions are waiting for their answers. As long as there is no clarity, there is no way for such a proposal to be supported, all the more so that this proposal cannot meet the election expectations of fellow Members of the United Patriarchs. No matter how many specialists there are in TelK, there is no way they can handle this impossible task.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u91	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. You have the floor for lines of speech. I don't see anyone who wants to. For the next statement there is Mr. Yordanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to address the second proposal made by the National Insurance Institute experts not to take part in the labour-expert medical committees. What's this about? It is about the participation of the NSI experts at the moment when the first assessment of the disability of the disabled patient is made. In the current situation, the NSI experts do not participate in these committees. When they disagree with the TelK decision, they appeal to this decision in the Central Labour Expert Medical Commission (CTEL). In this period, however, obligations are accumulated, i.e. the person takes his pension, and if this expert decision is not confirmed, the TELM experts must pay back from their own salaries the so-called damage caused. For experts from the five TELMs in Plovdiv last year this amount is about 56 thousand. lv. This year it's about 45 grand. lv. I think that the old situation should be returned to the NSI experts involved when the decision on disability is taken, because then they can state their claims and therefore this decision should not be appealed. Then we will retain the opportunity for the person to take his pension in normal expertise and we will not have a situation in which the members of TelKs return from their salaries the damage caused. That is why we abstained from voting in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u93	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. You have the floor for lines of speech. There are no lines. You have the floor for further speeches. There aren't any. We are going to vote at first reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 754-01-77, submitted by Georgi Kolev Kolev and a group of MPs on 3 November 2017. Please, voting mode. They voted 93 MPs: 77, against 3, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Daritkova. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u94	A little patience for one last procedure. On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 sentence third of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the time limit for written proposals on the bill for amendment and supplement of the Health Act, No 754-01-77, submitted by Georgi Kolev and a group of MPs on 3 November 2017, be 14 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u95	I put to the vote the proposal made for the period between the two readings. 90 MPs voted: 79, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR THE PROCEEDING OF THE CORRUPTION AND FOR THE RECURRENCE OF THE DEFINITELY ACCOMPLISHED AND LOADED PROCEEDING. Let's continue with art. 50 of the Bill. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u97	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put the texts to the vote for art. Art. 50, Art. 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u98	Mr. Chairman, I apologize, please cancel the vote. I have to make an editorial proposal for art. 49, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u99	Cancel the vote. Please make the editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making an editorial proposal: in art. 49, para. 3, which after the renumbering becomes para. 2, the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the The reasons are: the amendment is necessary because of the adoption of the proposal of Christian Mitev and a group of MPs for the removal of para. 1 in art. 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u101	I shall put to the vote the editorial proposal made for amendment in art. 49. Vote 84 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u102	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u103	I shall put to the vote proposals for art. Art. 50, Art. 51, supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 68 against 1, abstention 17. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u104	"Chapter 8" - Conflict of interest. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight. "Section I "Definitions ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 52. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 53. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 54.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u105	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u106	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We continue with this important bill, in its essential part, namely the conflict of interest. We have to say that this bill repealed the current Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests and, as it became clear here last week, the prevailing part of the understanding is that it is abolished not for good but rather for bad. In this matter we take a step back. Specifically on the lyrics. I note that a conflict of interest arises when a person occupying a high public activity has a private interest which may influence his impartial decision-making. It's not about responding, it's about a possibility that can affect. This is the text, and so far the practice has allowed it to be cleared, but it seems to me that since we are already rewriting a bill, we could take advantage of the fact and improve some texts. Moreover, the next text speaks of a private interest which leads to a benefit that cannot lead, as is the previous text. These were texts collected in one article. They are now divided into three different provisions, but essentially the legislator and the importer of the Bill have not taken advantage of the fact that they are also putting it on the table to contribute to anything better. This is another demonstration of what is really being done in this bill, namely, we are making a law to have a law, and that is all. I'm paying attention to art. 54, which is a definitive norm. Norma, which contains a definition, and its systematic place should be in the Additional Provisions, as I have tried to convince the Legal Commission, too, unsuccessfully. This is not just a ruse, but will help to interpret the entire Law, as the word "betting" is also found in the next texts in the part of "receiving property." It is obvious that if the same thing is understood in this law, then it should be in the definitions of the Law. If different things are understood, as we are going to talk about, perhaps later today, under the word 'betting', according to whether we are in matter, or whether we are in the conflict of interest, or in matter, taking away property, it would be an additional argument from the fact that the gathering of one place in these materials is simply systematic and there is no internal logic. [[Applause from SG to BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u107	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines to Mr. Zarkov's statement? I can't see. Are there any other speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the name of Chapter Eight, on the name of Section I and on the texts for Articles 52, 53 and 54. Vote 88 MPs: 71, against 3, abstention 14. The proposals have been accepted. Dear Mr. Kirilov, as the time for rest has come, I would like to announce it before I invite you to a performance of the ensemble "Bulgaria" in connection with the upcoming Christmas holidays in the Northern lobby, where an exhibition of the famous Bulgarian artist Georgi Trifonov will be opened. All MPs are invited, please. Holiday till 12.03. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u108	Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs to enter the hall if they don't want to, invite the carolers. I'm sure they'll come after them. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our work. Dear Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor to present the text of the Bill under Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Section II "The prohibitions and restrictions relating to the execution of a senior public office ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 55. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 56. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 57. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 61. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 62.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u110	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements on the name of Section II and Art. Art. 55 to art. 62, including? There are no speeches. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of Section II and the texts of the importer supported by the Commission from Articles 55 to 62, including. Vote 81 MPs: 66, against 2, abstention 13. The proposals are accepted. Before I give you the floor, Mr. Kirilov, let's congratulate the carolers today, and Mr. Dimitrov. Thank you! [[Applause.]] Please continue with the presentation of the text, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, honored guests from the ensemble. Section III....... to prevent conflict of interest.................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 63. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 64. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 65. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u112	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the name of Section III and Articles 63 to 66. The Commission supports the texts of importers. They voted 92 MPs: 72, against 2, abstention 18. The proposals are accepted. Please continue, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Section IV.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV. Under art. 67 has a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 67: Art. 67. Person holding a senior public office in respect of which a conflict of interest is established or a corresponding violation of art. 68 or 69 shall not be entitled, for one year from the entry into force of the decision establishing a conflict of interest, to hold a public office. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 68. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 69. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 70. Dear Mr. Chairman, I am making a request for a statement to make an editorial proposal. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the This is based on reasons relating to legal and technical editing.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u114	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. We shall vote on the text of the importer for the name of Section IV, art. 67 in the version submitted by the Commission, art. 68 with the edit proposed by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, and art. Art. 69, and Art. 70 the texts of the two articles are also supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 83, against 2, abstention 17. The proposals are accepted. Please continue, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Division V..... conflict of interest......................................................................................... There is a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of the name of Section V: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 71. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 72. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 73. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 74. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 75. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 76. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 77. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 78. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 79.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u116	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? There are no speeches. We vote on the text of the importer with the version presented by Mr. Kirilov and the text of the importer under art. 71 to 79, supported by the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: for 86, against 1, abstention 22. The proposal shall also be accepted for the name, I remind you, of Section
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u117	"Division VI " Consequences of Conflict of Interest. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VI. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 80. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 81.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u118	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote Section VI text of the applicant for the name, and Articles 80 to 81, including. They voted 105 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 23. The proposals are accepted. Please continue, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Chapter 9 " Countering Corruption by uncovering events of persons holding senior public positions. There is a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop the entire Chapter 9 with members from 82 to 106. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Ninth. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 82. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 83. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 84. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 85. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 86. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 87. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 88. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 89. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 90. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 91. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 92. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 93.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u120	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u121	Dear Mr. President, on the so- proposed Law on Countering Corruption and the Detainment of Illegally Acquired Property Chapter 9 is the one that certainly, firstly, creates chaos in the regulatory framework, and, secondly, is recognition of the proposed texts by the majority that there is a problem in the sector of Security and that there is a problem in the Ministry of Interior, where is the initial phase of every investigation, prevention and countermeasures. The way it is written, according to art. 82 of Chapter 9, Countering corruption by revealing events of senior public officials, the new body, the Commission, must carry out anti-corruption activities by collecting, analysing and checking information on and on the basis of information on corruption of individuals. All of this has so far been described as a commitment of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, i.e., firstly, the activities of the Ministry of Interior, and, secondly, there will also be clear action by the Commission, which is legally in the power office. This committee shall also be entitled to carry out operational and search activities, collect information, analyse and provide to whom, the investigating authorities and the Prosecutor's Office. At the same time, the Commission is commissioned to carry out checks commissioned by the Prosecutor's Office under the Law on the Judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) was against the proposed texts and proposals of the Bill precisely because of the misconceptions that are in the so proposed texts. I understand your desire to have such a law passed by the end of the year to convince the Bulgarian citizens that you are willing and applying all anti-corruption measures, but the big question is: "Why is the fight against corruption not effective so far? When hearing the Office Control Bureau, it became clear that the requests for the implementation of special intelligence resources for reasons, motives for dealing with corruption or investigation of corruption are negligible, i.e. with these texts, and especially with Chapter Nine, you are trying to pack your capacity, lack of desire to fight corruption and corruption crimes to society. You believe that once you have proposed and adopted the Bill, you will have reason to claim that as executive power, you will, as a majority, fight corruption. I say to you that what generates corruption is your attitude towards the government and the Bulgarian citizens, the administration, the lack of desire for you to introduce an electronic government. You yourself know that six months ago you started again, you started building an electronic government system, and what irritates Bulgarian citizens is precisely the corruption of the clerk, corruption and in the higher levels of power, which with regulation, does not fight with law. Crossing over, fighting corruption is done with desire and will, a political will that you do not have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u122	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u123	I can't imagine this aplomb, this edifying tone, as if you weren't in power and you didn't rule half the time of the transition. So, here are the branded institutions, the branded government, other political forces are branded, as if you fall from the sky like angels in white clothes and hold the account of the entire Bulgarian political class and of all the others who have been ruling until now, for there is corruption in Bulgaria. We're more modest. We are not blaming you, for example, for the management of Oresharski, which was very soon and which government fell just for this corruption, not for anything else, and this was your government. As far as the reasons are concerned, they are much deeper, and they are not a matter of one political force or another. The causes of corruption are fundamental. They are embedded in the model, as I have told you many times about the model. The model is such, the model is liberal, the model implies corruption, because as the institutions are created as a political system, as is the economic scheme in the state, as is the psychological model in the mind, the thinking of people suggests ultimately corruption. So many times I've been kind to you, and I've tried to protect you, and I've pleaded for the majority to premote you by voting on certain laws of yours, to act like people sent here to fight corruption, and more condescendingly! So do not try to make this political dividends. Once again, I say it again, although in the form of a line: well, let's all unite and fight against corruption, but the way you are going to do obstructions and attack this Law, from which I hope something little good will come to pass, things will not happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u124	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I had no intention of speaking under this Law, but since this law continues to be suggested, I am still obliged to pay attention to my fellow Members. The competences provided for in these texts are the same as those of the Anti-Corruption Directorate at the National Security Agency, honourable Members. This Law was passed during the management of the Triple Coalition, the competences were the same, in 2013, summer, amended this Law, an investigation was added to the SANS, but the competences remained the same, so let's talk professionally and not talk politically. I understand the desire, the intention to make political suggestions about this, first. Secondly, it was mentioned that the requests and permissions for special means of intelligence for corruption crimes were very few. Dear colleagues, the reports are public. Come on, read it. Stop making suggestions. You continue to make suggestions and speak untruths. Well, take and collect the crimes, it's not one, they're indicated in numbers, though not all: excise goods, contraband, 282, bribe, and you'll see it's over 770. And this is a permanent trend, and taking one by one is something else. You continue to make suggestions about untruths, continue to raise doubts about the competences of the services, destabilize the services. Well, say it, that's what you want! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u126	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Is there a third line? No. Mr. Yankov, right to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u127	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Shopov, I was surprised to discover that you recognized yourself as part of the decisive majority. I expected from the small partner in the big coalition to be more insightful and not to commit to the disability of the government, because in my opinion, the main fault is the pillar of this government. To Mr. Lazarov: After the powers of the DANS Directorate are transferred to the new body, why is this Law adopted and structured this body? I mean, you're proving exactly what I said. Until now, you cannot lead the Security sector and the units that are effective in countering and crossing this type of crime. Do you think that with the same powers a new body will be more effective, there will be revelations? Otherwise, I quoted Boyko Rashkov's words at the hearing in the National Assembly regarding the application of special intelligence funds. And if in the reports you have another view of what was said in the hearing and the numbers in the reports, then you should have taken an attitude. It is clear from the lines that were made during the speech I had, that until now there is no political will to deal with corruption in Bulgaria. Bulgaria is last in the Community on corruption and citizens' perception of corruption on all floors. And the cited successes do not concern representatives in the high echelon of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u128	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Are there any speeches? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is Chapter 9 to be dropped entirely. The existence of the Directorate under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 to the central administration is unwarranted. The creation and maintenance of such an authority in the authority, as we say, a mini-DANS, at first glance, looks good, but it is actually completely aimless. The care of inspectors with numerous powers, privileges and additional holidays and leave, high wages, additional remuneration, contentment and other material incentives, categorizing their work in the first category, special benefits for termination of service, the right to free travel, their arming and special training and, finally, the use of special intelligence resources, all of this aligns them as DANS agents under the DANS Act. Against all this human, financial and material resources, we should expect a reciprocal result. However, the law tells us otherwise... all the complex, expensive, labor-intensive and time-consuming operational and search activities end with the preparation of the storage of physical evidence and their provision to the relevant bodies of the judiciary. It remains unclear why and on what grounds the Law refers to these collected materials. It is clear that none of them can serve as such in any proceedings supposed either by the Code of Criminal Procedure or by any other procedural law, simply because it is not collected under the order established by the relevant procedural law. On the other hand, there is nowhere in the Law that these physical evidences should be used by the Commission itself for the realization of some specific legal result, such as administrative criminal act, forced criminal measures, forfeiture of property or other actions of particular legal importance. After all, the actions and expenses of the Commission's intelligence inspectors create a legal nothing that no body can use directly. If it trusts the information collected and draws conclusions, the requested authority should re-establish all procedural actions under its Law in order to give them evidence. It is hardly justified for such a result to waste such a resource. The law provides for this Directorate to be built by moving the relevant specialized directorate from the SANS. It can be assumed with great certainty that such a move would be quite painful and upset the work of the unit. It will probably be comparable to the move of DGBOP from the Ministry of Interior to the DANS. After all, the relocation will weaken the resources of the SANS and nothing will increase the potential of the proposed under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u130	Thank you, Mr. Hakke. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We stop the debate and move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs to drop the entire Chapter 9 of the Commission does not support the proposal made. They voted 115 MPs: 11 against 54, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer by the name of Chapter 9 and the text of the importer of art. Art. 82 to Art. 93 including those supported by the Commission. Vote 100 MPs: 75 against 4, abstention 21. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u131	Under art. 94 there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 94: Art. 94. (1) The employees of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 receive basic monthly remuneration according to their position within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 5 of the Additional Provisions. (2) Towards the basic monthly remuneration of the employees under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 additional remuneration shall be paid not less than those set out in art. 72, para. 1 of the State Agency Act
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u132	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer by the version of the Commission of art. 94.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u133	Voted 103 MPs: 83, against 3, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u134	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 95. Under art. 96 has a proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Anna Alexandrova and Maria Ilieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 96: Art. 96. The compulsory health and social security of the employees under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2, the use of medical establishments, as well as on holiday bases, sanatorial and preventive establishments shall be carried out according to art. 77 of the State Agency Act
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u135	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote art. Article 95, which the Commission supports, and Article 95 96 in the Commission's version according to the report. Vote 95 MPs: 78, against 2, abstention 15. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u136	Under art. 97 has a proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Anna Alexandrova and Maria Ilieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 97, which is reflected in art. 22, para. 3, and offers the following version of Art. 3. 97: Art. 97. The employees of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 must be insured against death, temporary disability or permanently lost or reduced performance due to an accident at the expense of the state budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u137	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote art. 97 in the Commission's version according to the report. Vote 91 MPs: 77 against 3, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u138	Under art. 98 has a proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Anna Alexandrova and Maria Ilieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 98, which is reflected in art. 22, para. 4, and offers the following version of Art. 4. 98: Art. 98. For the termination of the service of the employees under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, The provisions of Article 2 shall apply accordingly. 110-116 of the State Agency Act
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u139	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote art. 98 in the version of the Commission according to the report. Vote 92 MPs: 79, against 3, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u140	Under art. 99 has a proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Anna Alexandrova and Maria Ilieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 99, which is reflected in art. 98, and offers the following version of art. 99: Art. 99. The employees of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 benefits shall be paid by applying the provisions of art. 117-122 of the State Agency Act
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u141	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote art. 99 in the Commission's version according to the report. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 91 MPs: for 73, against 3, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u142	Madam President, I request a re-voting procedure. There are non-voted co-workers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u143	Some colleagues failed to vote. Please repeat the vote. Voted 103 MPs: 84, against 2, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Please welcome our guests from Bansko, who are on the balcony today. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished guests from Bansko, honourable colleagues! Under art. 100 has a proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Anna Alexandrova and Maria Ilieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 100, which is reflected in art. 99, and offers the following version of art. 100: Art. 100. In order to implement the powers conferred on it by the law, the Commission shall establish, maintain and use information funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u145	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote art. 100 in the Commission's version according to the report. Vote 98 MPs: 81, against 3, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u146	Under art. 101 has a proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Anna Alexandrova and Maria Ilieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 101: Art. 101. (1) For the organisation of the information activities of the Commission, the bodies for its management and control and the use of the information shall apply respectively the provisions of art. Article 29-31 34-36 of the State Agency Act "National Security." (2) In carrying out the control of the information activity, the rules for protecting classified information shall be complied with.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u147	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote art. 101 as amended by the Commission in accordance with the report. Vote 91 MPs: 76 against 3, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u148	Under art. 102 has a proposal from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 102: Art. 102. (1) The operational search activity shall aim at: 1. prevention, prevention, detection and countering of violations and crimes related to corruption in the activities of persons holding senior public positions; 2. the acquisition of information and information on actions or omissions that reveal corruption and their provision to the relevant judicial authorities as well as to the investigating authorities; 3. preparation and storage of physical evidence and making them available to the relevant judicial authorities; 4. establishment of illegally acquired property. (2) The operational and search activities shall be carried out by the bodies referred to in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 by vocal and silent methods and means in accordance with their competence under conditions and by order laid down by this Law and by a regulation adopted by the Commission. (3) Operational and search activities shall be carried out in respect of and guaranteeing the dignity, rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u149	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote art. 102 in the Commission's version, according to the report. Vote 88 MPs: 74 against 2, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u150	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 103. Under art. 104 there is a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs in art. No. 104, para. 1 t. Five out. That's a suggestion if it stays Chapter Nine. She stayed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 104.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u151	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov, for art. Art. 103, Art. 104.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u152	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister! Before I begin my statement under art. 104, I would like to present a challenge to the Members of the National Assembly in this House. If any of them can give an example of another institution in Bulgaria, in Europe or in the world that has operational and search powers and is not in the common system of the authorities dealing with criminal prosecution, if someone gives such an example, I would be grateful. In essence, Article 104 in para. 3 provides for the Commission to be able to request the use of special intelligence means under conditions and in order laid down by the Special Intelligence Means Act. As we quote this Law, let us see what it says to understand how absurd these powers are, even more so, these special powers. According to art. 2 of the Special Intelligence Means Act they are used to produce physical evidence. What physical means will this Commission make? None! She doesn't have that kind of authority. In accordance with art. 3 of the Special Intelligence Means Act they are used to prevent and detect serious intentional crimes. This Law, which we are voting on, does not concern itself, and this has been the subject of our debate at first reading with the prevention and detection of serious intentional crimes. In it, crimes appear on only one list, which has a completely different meaning. And I wonder when this Commission, through the SRS, collects certain data and locks them in the information funds that we created just now, what can it do with the data from the SRS, according to this Law? This is the next text, but in order not to take the floor again, I will continue my speech, if I may. So, she cannot carry out an investigation, possibly understands that there is some evidence of a crime, sends them to the prosecution where, of course, it has no value, and the prosecution will assign it to another body to draw up the BDZ, as the colleague mentioned just now, or uses it in the context of the procedure for the withdrawal of property as one of the prerequisites for initiating this procedure. This procedure is developed in the civil court under the Civil Procedure Code, where these documents will not be admissible. They won't be allowed in. We therefore allow a Commission to collect information from which it cannot legally benefit. If it cannot be used by law, ladies and gentlemen, it will be used by it outside the law. And this is the big problem of these texts and of the entire Chapter.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u153	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u154	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Madam Minister! With reluctance, I take a line on the speech of colleague Krum Zarkov because he again speculates and manipulates to create a certain false attitude in the audience in the interpretation of special intelligence means. Colleague Zarkov, you should know by reading the Special Intelligence Means Act that, in view of what has been done, let's say in the particular case, a wiretap is being drawn up, a transcript is being drawn up, which actually confirms what has been said. This is the evidence in view of the fate of the material medium itself, which recorded the conversation itself. So in any case, the creation of BDZ is an inherent and inalienable consequence of the application of the special reconnaissance tool. You manipulate it, and it didn't matter on the PPC. Why shouldn't it matter on the PPC? It matters by both laws, according to the facts and circumstances which it certify. And I don't understand why you keep suggesting that if this tool was collected under this Law, it couldn't be used in a criminal procedure or in a criminal investigation? Why can't it be used?! And why do we have to fool people into that? It confirms a fact that happened. And if that's the criminal fact, it's one of the evidence that establishes the actual composition of the criminal act. I don't have time to explain all the manipulations regarding your interpretation in other proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u155	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u156	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr. Kirilov! In my speech I mentioned several texts of the Law, you mentioned several times the word "manipulation." On what grounds... [[Reply of National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] I'm leaving this on your parliamentarians' conscience. On what grounds will the Director of the Special Directorate ask the judge to authorize a special reconnaissance tool? The reasons are in the Special Law. They are evidence of a crime committed. If there is evidence of a crime in this agency, they must alert the prosecution to order it to an investigative body. This body does not deal with the detection and investigation of crimes. This is in the concept which is embedded in the motives all the time. Since she's not involved in solving and investigating crimes, she has nothing to do with prosecution. With nothing to do with prosecution, there's nothing to ask the criminal judge for special intelligence. And when you start a property identification check and at the beginning of this check, let's say there's a difference, it goes to the civil court, in proceedings between the Commission and the respective defendant, a civil trial. In this civil trial, the defendant will want to see at the outset whether this examination was lawful. Then the Commission will have to justify itself with the SRS. Well, the SRS in civil court, I can't imagine how they show up. And if you explain it to me, I will withdraw all my manipulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u157	You're manipulating right now!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u158	Please don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u159	And don't take a cue with reluctance, take it willingly, protect your bill, but it is indefensible, and that is where your reluctance comes from, not from my so-called "manipulation." It's obvious to all of us. It's an operative and a search operation. It is known, however, you cannot remove it for the simple reason that if you remove this part of the Law, then its title That's it! [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u160	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, we will vote on the unsupported proposal in art. 104 of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. Please vote. They voted 101 MPs: 20, against 35, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on art. Art. 103, Art. 104 which the Commission supports. They voted 96 MPs: for 71, against 6, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u161	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 105. Under art. 106 supposed by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Anna Alexandrova and Maria Ilieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 106: Art. 106. (1) The operational and search activities shall end with a report from the Director under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 to the Commission on the anti-corruption activities carried out on the basis of the collected, analysed and verified information on or on the basis of the information received on the corruption of persons holding senior public positions. (2) Based on the report under para. 1 The Commission shall adopt a decision on: 1. operational interaction with prosecutors and investigative bodies; 2. initiation of an inspection for the establishment of illegally acquired property under Chapter 10 when a non-compliance of not less than 20 000 BGN has been found.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. termination of the check.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u162	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote art. 105, which the Commission supports, and art. 106 in the Commission's version according to the report. They voted 96 MPs: for 73, against 3, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u163	"Chapter 10 of the Law on Illegal Acquired Property. " The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 10a. Under art. 107 has a proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev, which was withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 107.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u164	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u165	Thank you, Madam President. My statement is in connection with art. 107, para. The second part of the sentence which states that.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Here, in the article itself, there is no definition of a non-compliance that can lead to a coup d'état interpretation of this norm of the text. It is therefore appropriate, in my opinion, for the importers and the majority responsible to still state what they mean by the assumption that, after verification, there is a significant discrepancy in the property of the person under review, so as not to come to speculation with this text and to the unwarranted initiation of the procedure under this Chapter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u166	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Will there be any justification? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put the name of Chapter 10 to the vote, supported by the Commission, and art. 107, which is also supported by the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: for 72, against 6, abstention 18. The proposals have been accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u167	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal to extend plenary time until adoption by voting on this Draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u168	Please vote on the proposal so made. Vote 92 MPs: 74 against 3, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Continue, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u169	Under art. 108 has a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Anna Alexandrova and Maria Ilieva, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 108 as in para. 5 after the words. 46, para. Article 5 and Article 5 shall be added. 106, para. 2, p. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011:
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u170	We just need to make one thing clear. Mr. Karadaye's offer has been withdrawn?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u171	Yeah, it's withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u172	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u173	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 108 of this Draft Law has a gap in what exactly is the status and legal nature of the acts of the body of the Commission in the course of the verification under art. 108. What are the rights of persons whose rights are directly or indirectly affected by such operational, informational and analytical activities and monitoring, and control of persons and objects and activities, to whom are they protected and by what legal means can they be protected? Usually, under the Administrative Procedure Code or the Criminal Procedure Code, this is done before higher authorities, but there is no one here to appeal to. It has not been mentioned and thus lost the racing start in the process. An advantage is given to the Commission over investigations and this official advantage given to it can be detrimental to it at the outcome of the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u174	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 108 with the editing amendments so made. 90 MPs voted: 73, against 1, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u175	Under art. 109 has a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs in art. 109, para. 1 the number "sixty thousand' is replaced by one hundred thousand. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 109.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u176	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi. They voted 86 MPs: 9 against 39, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support article. 109. Vote 84 MPs: 66, against 3, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u177	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 110. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 111. Under art. 112 has a proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 112th para is The performance of the checks shall be entrusted to a team comprising one official with a legal and economic education. The team shall provide the Director of the relevant territorial directorate with a report on the results of the verification. An integral part of the report shall be an economic analysis to establish compliance or non-compliance and valuations of the property under art. 148, para. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 112. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 113.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u178	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! Dear Members of Parliament, the reasons behind this proposal are as follows. The bill shall only deal with the time limits and the initiation of the checks. In view of the powers of the authorities, the actions to be carried out should also be provided for. There is a gap in the question on the basis of what the Director will assess the results of the verification in order to issue an act in the hypothesis of art. 113? The issue is essential and should therefore find a legislative solution which requires the lensing of what has been established in the controls in a particular form. That is also the essence of our proposal. With regard to and with quality checks, we have proposed a team to include an employee with legal and economic education, which we believe will help carry out these checks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u180	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? I can't see. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Mr. Mitev and a group of MPs under art. 112. They voted 104 MPs: 21, against 18, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I vote on Articles 110, 111, 112 and 113, which the Commission supports. They voted 106 MPs: for 82, against 1, abstention 23. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u181	Chapter 11 - The powers of the authorities of the Commission in carrying out an inspection on the occasion of the establishment of illegally acquired property. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 11. Under art. 114 there is a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission under the heading. 1, and c. 2 is withdrawn: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 114 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." the actual acquisition value of the property, taking into account also the condition in which it was at that time; Proposal by the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 114, as in para. 2, p. 1 the words "to require explanations" shall be replaced by "to provide an opportunity for explanations and objections."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u182	Statements? There are no speakers. Firstly, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal on this point. 1 of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 105 MPs: 8 against 49, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter eleventh and art. 114 with the corresponding editorial support that the Commission supports. 90 MPs voted: 78, against 1, abstention 11. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u183	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 115. supplied measures and withdrawals for the benefit of the State of the illegally acquired property. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter twelfth. "Section I "Administrative measures". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. Under art. 116 has a proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 116, para. 5 after the word................................................................................................ 112, para. 1 and 2 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 116. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 117. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 118. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 119. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 120. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 121. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 122. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 123. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 124. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 125. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 126. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 127. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 128. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 129. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 130. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 131 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 132 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 133. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 134. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 135.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u184	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs for art. 116. They voted 94 MPs: 11 against 41, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 115, the name of Chapter twelfth, the name of Section I, art. Article 116 135 including those supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: for 82, against 1, abstention 18. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u185	"Department II..... after the imposition of the safeguard The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. Under art. 136 has a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 136 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is created a new t. 6: It's six. balance of cash available at the starting date of the period checked; 2. Alinea 2 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 136.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u186	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi. Vote 95 MPs: 6 against 51, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the name of Section II and Article 136 which the Commission shall support. Vote 89 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 12. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u187	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 137. Under art. 138 has a proposal from the MP Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 138, para. The second sentence shall be created: the one-month period referred to in the preceding sentence shall begin to run from the moment of receipt of the notification by the inspected person. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 138. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 139. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 140. "Department III "The subject of the claim. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 141. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 142.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u188	Statements? Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, regarding our proposal to supplement para. 2 of art. 138 our motives are as follows. Within the three-month period laid down by the provision, there is a one-month period for the person examined and a one-month period for the Director of the territorial directorate, but together with that administrative period for sending and receiving the Director's report by the Commission and analysing the Director's decision to make a future claim, as well as a technological period from the decision to initiate the proceedings and imposing precautionary measures until the verified person is notified and brought to know the materials. Practically inspected persons shall use all legal possibilities to postpone their appearance, extend the knowledge of the materials for days and submit objections as soon as possible so that they do not allow the Commission authorities to verify their claims in the evidence submitted. With the discipline of the checked persons, the current situation will be changed within a day or two. It is therefore logical to change the wording of the provision in such a way that the period for submitting an objection and presentation of the evidence in this stage of the proceedings becomes excessive. In the event that the practice is submitted by the persons examined in the last days of the three-month period so that they are accepted or rejected without verification, or formally carried out, will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u190	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u191	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making an editorial proposal in relation to art. 137. I propose in art. 137, p. 1 the words the persons concerned shall be replaced by the person concerned. Our motives are legal and technical editing of art. 137 and actually t. 1 to become the persons under art. 143, 144, 145.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u192	Colleagues, any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I shall put to the vote the editorial amendment for art. 137, just made by Mrs. Alexandrova: in art. 137, c. 1 to the applicant and to remain only the persons under art. 143, 144 and 145. They voted 93 MPs: 72, against 5, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. They voted 91 MPs: 11 against 10, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Members supported by the Commission from 137 to 140 including the name of Section Three and Articles 141 and 142. Vote 101 MPs: 82, against 3, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u193	Under art. 143 has a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 143, t. 2 the words.. or could have suggested............................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 143. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 144. Under art. 145 has a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 145, para. 1 the words or the circumstances could be assumed to be taken into account. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 145. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 146. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 147. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 148. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 149. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 150. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 151. Under art. 152 has a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 152 para. 3 is The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 152.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u194	Statements. I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs in art. 143. Vote 101 MPs: for 6, against 45, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the unsupported proposal from the Commission of the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi in art. 145. They voted 100 MPs: for 7, against 55, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs for art. 152. They voted 104 MPs: for 7, against 45, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Members supported by the Commission from 143 to 152 inclusive. They voted 100 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 19. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u195	"Section IV.. Production before the court for withdrawal in favour of the State of illegally acquired The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV. Under art. 153 has a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 153 the following amendments are made: "1." In para. 1 the words: "from the last act on the imposition of the safeguard measures' shall be deleted. 2. Alinea 5 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 153. Under art. 154 there is a proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 154, para. 1 the word "sent" is replaced by "sent" and after it is added "constitutional" and "constitutional" and a sentence is created second: "The requests under the previous sentence are submitted and dealt with within one production." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 154. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 155. Under art. 156 has a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 156 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 4 t. 4 the words:.. or could have suggested............................................................................................ 2. A new para is being created. 6: Where the legal time limits for the storage of accounting and commercial information under art. 38, para. 1 of the PDK expired, the circumstances of which are proved by the applicant. 3. Alinea 6 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 156. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 157. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 158. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 159.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u196	Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u197	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Our proposal under art. 154, para. 1 is motivated by the following: the proposed change will prevent the existing situation from requesting the withdrawal of property with a criminal claim. There is no obstacle to bringing objectively joined claims. With a judgment claim, the Commission will be able to claim not only available or converted property (s) a claim with a constitutional claim but also cash received without justification, i.e. received without grounds by third parties on bank accounts or deposited on bank accounts by the persons examined and subsequently withdrawn. At present, this kind of property falls outside the scope of the Law as the majority of the courts treat it as unavailable and untranslated and therefore do not award it to the State. As far as the provision of art. 151, it is insufficient due to the constant caselaw that money equivalent cannot be taken away. In view of the aim of the new Law to counteract corruption, it is essential whether the state will be provided with a legal basis to claim such amounts, since these are in practice funds received as bribes or illegal activities. Of course, there are other hypotheses: the state cannot take away the incomes of drug dealers whose clients have transferred or contributed money to their bank account as they have withdrawn them and the courts accept these amounts as not available. If, in parallel with an explicit statement of a constitutional claim, the State is provided with the right to ask the court to order defendants to pay the corresponding amount of money in equivalent, obtained without a legal basis, then this can give and give an instrument to the new anti-corruption body to counter it, especially in cases where the persons examined have essentially implemented a successful fugitive. In this case, it will not be possible to take the hidden away from them, but they will already be able to be condemned for its equivalence and will be debtors in enforcement proceedings. It is proposed that the claims are brought by the Commission and are examined by the Court in a single proceedings in order to prevent the possibility of the division of claims and their examination separately or consistently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u198	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs in art. 153. They voted 98 MPs: 11 against 44, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev in art. 154. They voted 98 MPs: 14 against 18 abstentions 66. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs in art. 156. They voted 115 MPs: 15 against 43, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the names of Section IV and Article IV supported by the Commission. Art. 153 to Art. 159, including. They voted 110 MPs: for 83, against 3, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u199	"Chapter 13" "Management of assets on which protective measures have been imposed." Management of seized property. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter XIII. "Department I "The Management of the Secured Property ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 160. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 161. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 162. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 163. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 164.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u200	I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter XIII, the name of Section I and the texts of art. Art. 160, Art. Art. 161, Art. Art. 162, Art. Art. 163, Art. 164. They voted 112 MPs: for 85, against 3, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u201	"Department II. " The management of the decommissioned property. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 165. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 166. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 167. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 168. "Chapter 14.. Electronic The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 169. Under art. 170 has a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 170, para. 2 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 170. Proposal by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: A new Chapter 15 is hereby established with the title: The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: "1." A new article shall be created. 171: Art. 171. Any person who has suffered damage from unlawful acts, acts or omissions of the authorities and officials under this law, committed at or on the occasion of their powers or office, may bring an action for compensation against the State under the terms and conditions of the State's liability and the municipalities for damages. 2. The following chapters and Articles shall be renumbered. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u202	Do you have a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u203	Yeah. I'm making an editorial proposal, Mr. Chairman. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 168, para. 5 the words "under the law" shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u204	I put to the vote a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadaye: in art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 the proposal is not supported by the Commission. 110 MPs voted: 11 against 39, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs to create a new Chapter 15 with the title of responsibility. They voted 109 MPs: 25, against 37, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs to create a new art. 171. They voted 103 MPs: 12, against 15, abstentioned 76. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial amendment in art. 168 as it was done. They voted 107 MPs: for 83, against none, abstentioned 24. The editorial amendment in art. 168 accepted. I shall put the name of Section II to the vote, art. Art. 165, Art. Art. 166, Art. 167. They voted 103 MPs: for 83, against none, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. Vote art. 168 with the editorial amendment. They voted 105 MPs: 82, none, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote Chapter fourteen, with the name of the Head, art. Art. 169, Art. 170. They voted 98 MPs: 78, none, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Chapter 15, Administrative Penal Provisions. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 15. Under art. 171 has a proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yanev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev. [[Replying: "We withdraw it. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u206	Is the offer withdrawn? Yeah. [[Heckling]] The texts have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u207	Yeah. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 171. Under art. 172 has a proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev, withdrawn just a moment ago. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 172. Under art. 173 has a proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yanev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev, withdrawn just a moment ago. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 173. Under art. 174 has a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 174: Art. 174. (1) A person holding a senior public office who does not declare or falsely declare a circumstance which is obliged to declare under this law shall be punished with a fine of 1 000 to 3 000 BGN, unless a more severe penalty is provided. (2) For the violation of para. 1 persons under § 2, para. 1 is punished with a fine of 300 to 1000 BGN. (3) When the infringement has been repeated, the fine shall be from 3000 to 6000 BGN and for the persons referred to in § 2, para. 1 fine is from 1000 to 2000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u208	So far, please. We vote Chapter 15, the name of Chapter 15, and Article 15. Art. 171, Art. Art. 172, Art. Art. 173, Art. 174, as amended by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 76, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under art. 175 has a proposal from the MPs Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs in art. 175, para. One and two down. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 175. Under art. 176 has a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 176 to be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 177, which becomes Art. 176. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 178, which becomes art. 177. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 179, which becomes Art. 178.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u210	Please make the editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u211	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am making an editorial proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 177 words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Our motives for this editorial proposal are in connection with the amendment that is required because of the adoption of the proposal of the MP Christian Mitev and a group of MPs for the removal of para. 1 in art. 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u212	I shall put to the vote what has been done in art. 175 proposals from MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The proposal is in art. 175 para.1 and 2 drop out. They voted 98 MPs: 13 against 43, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial amendment made in art. Article 177, which becomes Art. 176. They voted 99 MPs: 82, against 1, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote Mustafa Karadaye's motion to drop art. Article 176; Article 177, which becomes Art. 176, with the editorial amendment; 178, which becomes art. Article 177; and 179, which becomes Art. 178. 90 MPs voted: 77, none against, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u213	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! I'm making an editorial proposal in art. 179, which we have just voted on: after the word "globals" to be added to the penalty payments.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u214	I shall put to the vote the proposed editorial proposal made for art. 179, which we just accepted. They voted 97 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 19. The editorial amendment in art. 179, which becomes Art. 178, accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 1 the proposal from the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 1: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 all the words for the acquisition of which a legal source is established shall be deleted. 2. point 4 is amended as follows: "4." The assets are money and all cash-valued rights on tangible and intangible assets within the meaning of the Accounting Act. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 13 Finally, in strict compliance with the right of protection of the persons concerned and without the risk of injustice, enforcement of such forceful measures affecting the rights of persons to the least extent if the objectives of the law are achieved. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev: "Paragraph 2" is out, with the numbering of the paragraphs changing. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u216	Make the editorial proposal for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u217	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am making an editorial proposal: in § 2, para. 10 words.............................................................................. It is important to replace them with the following: 176. I am making this editorial proposal because of the rejection of art. 176 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u218	I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs for § 1. They voted 101 MPs: for 7, against 49, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev... Have both of these proposals been withdrawn? Yeah. I shall put to the vote the editorial amendment made in § 2, para. 10. They voted 100 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the name of the section of the Additional Provisions. § 1; § 2 with the editorial amendment made in para. 10. They voted 97 MPs: 79, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u219	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. According to § 6 there is a proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. According to § 7 a proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev has just withdrawn it. Proposal from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov: In § 7, paragraph 7 is created. 6: Within three months of the date of completion of the composition of the Commission, the President of the Commission shall take action to conduct a selection contest for the Secretary-General. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u220	I put to the vote a proposal of the MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov in § 7 to create para. 6. They voted 101 MPs: 13 against 49, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the name of the division and also § 3, § 4, § 5, § 6 and § 7. Vote 100 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u221	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u222	That's it. Please do the editorial amendment for § 15, as I understand it. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u223	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm making an editorial proposal: In § 15 finally, the words "and the directors of the shareholders' shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u224	I shall put to the vote the editorial amendment made for § 15. They voted 98 MPs: 79, against 1, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the texts of paragraphs 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18. Vote 98 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u225	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20. Paragraph 21. There is a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u226	So far, let's vote. You've got an editorial amendment. Come on in, make the amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u227	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm doing an editorial repair: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 20: To create a new t. 1: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36, para. 6, p. 5 words: "The Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests" is replaced by "The Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property." 2. point 1 becomes t. 2 and in it point (b) the words (b) shall be replaced by the order (s) laid down in (i) and (ii) by the order of (ii) the order (s) laid down in (iii) shall be replaced by the order (s) laid down in (iii) and (iv) by the order (iv) of (v); 3. point 2 is t. 3; 4. The creation of a t. 4. "4." in art. 226, para. 1, t. 14 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 5 point 3 is t. 5 and is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. In § 1, t. 19 of the Additional Provisions, the words.......................................................................................... 1 of the Additional provision of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests is replaced by the Additional provision of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests. 15 of the Additional Provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u228	I shall put to the vote the editorial amendment that has just been made and the addition to § 20. They voted 99 MPs: 82, against 1, abstention 16. The editorial amendment in § 20 has been adopted. I shall put to the vote the texts of paragraphs 19, 20, 2, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30. They voted 101 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u229	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37. Paragraph 38. There is a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u230	So far, let's vote, I suggest. Do you have a statement? You have the floor, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u231	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would just like to draw attention to § 38, which provides for amendments to the Special Intelligence Act. Earlier today, we talked about why and how they will be used. It's settled here who will be able to make the request. I note that, as the Law has been proposed to us, a request for special intelligence, as well as for the handling of the data collected through them will not be made by the Commission, nor by its President, but by the special directorate of the already famous Chapter 9. That is, this Directorate, which will be able to ask and benefit from it, is an absolute independent body, since neither the powers of the Commission nor the powers of the President of the Commission provide for any way of controlling this action and the task is asked: when will this Directorate inform the College authority or the President of the Commission accordingly that it has used or requested to use special intelligence means, who will decide upon whom to ask for this thing and to whom not? All guarantees that the Law has otherwise tried to create for some publicity of the procedure, for some collegiality in the body to avoid uniformity, in fact with regard to special intelligence means will have no value, as the director of the Directorate will act in quite broad operational autonomy.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u232	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u233	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, dear Mr. Zarkov! That's my line. And now can this Directorate be an applicant within the meaning of the Special Intelligence Means Act, in your opinion? In any case, who will monitor, control and permit? The Court of Justice shall authorise the use of special means of intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u234	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Would you like a double, Mr. Zarkov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u235	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, thank you for the line. Not in my opinion, but according to the Law, the territorial departments of the State Agency can make such a request.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u236	They can do it! They can do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u237	Only they're doing other work. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 which we cancel, in art. 2 of the SANS Act is written that they counteract corruption and participate in prosecution, if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u238	And now they're in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u239	No, now they won't be participating. That's the big difference. You remember, we had also submitted a bill. We had such powers in mind there, but in a completely different logic. These powers make sense when they are in prosecution and no sense outside of it. Besides, that's not the point here. Of course, the court will decide whether or not there will be, but when and against whom to ask....................... if we are to make a college body, the most logical thing would be for this college body to have the floor. I am also trying to demonstrate through this text that this is an authority in the authority of the independent directorate, which will pursue its own track as it will pursue the conflict of interest and the seizure of property. There is nothing single in this single body. And this is where it gets dangerous.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u240	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote paragraphs 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37 and 38. Vote 107 MPs: 80 against 13, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u241	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46. Under § 47, there is a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on concessions (prom., SG No. ...) in § 1, t. 8 of the additional provisions are replaced by the Law on Countering Corruption and the Law on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 57. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 61. Under § 62, there is a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 62. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 63. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64. Under § 65, there is a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 65. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 66. According to § 67, there is a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 67.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u242	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u243	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm making editorial proposals: First, in § 57, the word "resolution' is replaced by "disclosure'. In § 59, the word "resolution" everywhere is replaced by "disclosure." Paragraph 60 shall make the following amendments and additions: "1." A new t is created. 1: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29c, para. 2, the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing 2. Previously on "T." 1 and 2 become ct, respectively. Two and three. 3. A t is created. 4. 4. Everywhere in the Law, the words "chloe." 2 of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 52 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. In § 65 to create t. 5 with the following content: It's five o'clock. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 411a, al. 1, t. 4, b. The words..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any speeches? I won't. We're putting an end to this debate. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the text of § 56, proposed by the Commission. They voted 113 MPs: 88, against 1, abstention 24. The offer is accepted. I put to the vote the editorial amendments to paragraphs 57, 59, 60 and 65 presented by Mrs Alexandrova in her speech. They voted 114 MPs: 92, none, abstention 22. The offer is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of paragraphs 39 to 67, including the text of the amendments adopted just now. They voted 111 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 22. The offer is accepted. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u245	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank all the MPs for adopting today the anti-corruption legislation, which was one of the commitments of both the Bulgarian government and Parliament, so that we can actually meet the expectations and recommendations of the European Commission. Despite the differences and clash that we had during the entire debate, I would also like to thank our colleagues from the BSP who participated in the debate. Of course, we have adopted texts that will be able to give greater efficiency in the fight against corruption. I believe that this will be part of filling our legislation with content that corresponds to the needs and wishes of the Bulgarian voters, and at the same time the European Commission. Thank you, and I hope that this was a very clear sign that we are fulfilling the recommendations and deadlines for us to have anti-corruption legislation by the end of the year. Thank you, colleagues. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u246	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Go ahead, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u247	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I use a similar procedure. We had our differences, but the law was passed. It is good that recommendations will be implemented, but it is time for results and we will be here in a few months to ask you: where are these results? If they're not here, it's because of this law. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-20.u248	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Colleagues, this is how we finish our work for today. The next meeting is from 9:00 p.m. on 21 December 2017. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
