ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Message: By letter No 754-00-28 of 8 June 2017 the People's Representative Dimitar Avramov informed the President of the National Assembly that he agreed within the meaning of art. 70, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria for the waiver of his immunity to the MP in the Forty-fourth National Assembly in relation to the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. No 727-00-6 of 7 June 2017 for granting permission to arouse (continuation) criminal proceedings against him. By letter dated 8 June 2017, the President of the National Assembly informed the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of the written consent given by the National Representative Dimitar Avramov and a certified copy of it was attached. We'll start with what's scheduled for today: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 2 " 8 June 2017': - a question is asked by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova to Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, concerning the White Paper on the Development of Europe, proposed by Mr Juncker, President of the European Commission. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 16 June 2017. A question has been received from MP Anton Kutev to Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence, on the restoration of the military service. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 16 June 2017. And, thirdly, it was asked by MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov to Valentin Radev, Minister of Interior, about the current problems of the Ministry of Interior and the policy for optimization of the Ministry. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 16 June 2017. Written answers for service by: - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a request from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on a question from the National Representative Alexander Ivanov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Rosen Ivanov; - Minister of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov. We begin with a debate on asking the National Representative Georgi Yordanov to the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov about the Strategy for the Development of Hospital Services in the Republic of Bulgaria. I will present you with a reference to the debates on the asking of the National Representative Georgi Ivanov to the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov about the Strategy for the Development of Hospital Services in the Republic of Bulgaria. The request by the National Representative Georgi Yordanov was answered at the meeting on 2 June 2017, Friday. At the same meeting 53 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with a draft decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. The proposal for a debate on the inquiry and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 2 June 2017, Friday. A second draft was introduced for a decision by 13 MPs from the political party GERB parliamentary group and the parliamentary group "United patriots" on 8 June 2017, Thursday. A third draft decision was put in place by two MPs from the parliamentary group on 8 June 2017, Thursday. The second and third draft decision shall be sent on the same day to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form. The submitted drafts for a decision to be voted on are three: Draft for a decision submitted by 53 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. No 754-00-26 of 2 June 2017, registered at 10,37 pm, second draft decision submitted by 13 MPs from the political party GERB parliamentary group and the parliamentary group. No 754-02-45 of 8 June 2017, registered at 13.50 and a third draft decision submitted by two MPs from the parliamentary group Here you are, Mr. Stoinev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 We propose that the President of the Bulgarian Medical Union Dr. Vasil Grozev and the Chairman of the Health Care Association Mrs. Milka Vassileva will be present in the Chamber. We believe that this is necessary, in view of the debate, to hear all points of view, indeed, in order to make the right decision, all the more so when it comes to such a painful sector with huge problems and especially with the lack of funding, such as the sector of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Indeed, the right decisions should be made in view of the health of the Bulgarian nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u3	Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ms. Milka Vasileva, Chairman of the Association of Health Care Professionals, and Dr. Ventsislav Grozev, Chairman of the Bulgarian Medical Union, are a matter of fact collaborating with the Committee on Health. They have gaps for the two buildings of the National Assembly and can attend unlimitedly and listen to the meetings of both the Committee on Health and the National Assembly, so it is sufficient for them to attend the balcony together with the directors of hospital care facilities that you have invited to hear this debate. According to the procedures of the National Assembly there is no possibility for them to participate in the debate. Their opinion is important, but it is important that we have an overview of the whole sector............ because there are two other professional unions: Bulgarian dental union and Bulgarian pharmaceutical union. Why are you ignoring their presidents? [[Applause from GERB.]] I believe that the sector is indeed important, leading, key, but in no case should it be subject to political use. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Dragomir Stoinev. Vote 184 MPs: 81 against 56, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. Are there any interested parties from the importers of the decision projects? Are the importers of the draft decisions willing to submit them? Here you are, in the order of entry. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Petrov, ladies and gentlemen! Health problems have been accumulated without effective attempts at their overall resolution over the past 20 years. I believe that it is necessary to examine three particularly important directions which form the basis for making optimal decisions on all health policies. First of all, the situation of the functioning of medical institutions at home and the access of citizens to qualified medical care should be considered, i.e. professionally analysing the internal structure of the real health card. Things are more than serious out there. The scarce funding of medical facilities and personnel collapse has disabled an increasing number of hospitals and is putting the health system to the test. The volume of responsibilities of hospitals in the country reaches the already serious threshold of 500 million. There is no need to repeat cases with hospitals in Lovech, Karlovo, Oryahovo and others. It is enough for a person to visit the mother of all university hospitals: Alexandrovska And I'm asking you, Professor. Petrov, this sacrament of Bulgarian medicine and its worthy history, assist the management of Alexandrovska Hospital, to regain its normal appearance. Mistakes and outrage have been for decades and weigh on many management teams. The crushing of large and well-functioning complexes of dozens of hospitals only led to the unnecessary increase in management pool. Not a single minister's attempt to change things in this direction is always a fierce standoff. An extremely sober and professional assessment of demographic characteristics and morbidity in individual regions is needed in order to restructure the network of medical institutions and optimize the access of citizens to them. By the way, because it is mentioned at the beginning by Dr Daritkova, this also applies to the pharmacies network, but it can be the subject of a whole separate discussion. The next serious issue is funding the health system. The National Health Insurance Fund has been imposed, a practical monopoly model financing the crucial part of health care, implemented and established non-working models: clinical pathways existing as a funding model in the European Union only in Bulgaria; trading companies without profit rights s Second Nonsense of the wicked mosaic structure of the health system. In the negotiations for the National Framework Treaty, the medical institutions and the so-called "boards" of the Bulgarian Medical Union are of no importance. They negotiate terminological details, and the most important is the volume of funds that will be allocated in one direction or another. In many of the clinical pathways are united completely different by their clinical characteristics, biological aggression, and, respectively, financial embolism diseases. Furthermore, there are virtually no extremely important criteria suggesting the need for one or another medical doctrine applying to the path, which transforms the aisle applications into a financing slot, without clear criteria for effect and quality. The funding of clinical pathways is organised in a shady lobbying way, which very seriously overfinances separate directions and does not finance others. All these peculiarities and other details have led to the great opportunity to find a huge number of medical establishments that have skillfully adapted to the defective model and are practically frankly draining already insufficient financial resources of the NHIF. As long as this financial model exists, the increase in the budget of the NHIF will simply be drained without real optimal effect. It comes to the paradox frankly socially significant medical activities such as oncology and haematology to become the subject of mostly commercial interest. Unfortunately, amid this, there is a tendency to increase mortality from cancer. In Bulgaria, the smallest percentage of gross domestic product for healthcare is allocated annually, and the largest percentage of the funds targeted at medicines... for cancer products, and in the absence of a priority for social importance, directions such as children's healthcare. The opportunity for an unlimited number of micro-procedures is commendable, but it is scandalous that 17 years after the beginning of the 21st century in Bulgaria there is no modern multi-profile children's hospital. Thus, the created financial model effectively bled out strategic hospitals having national importance, such as university and district hospitals, which take on the most severe cases and practically in this financing work at a loss, condemns the miserable existence of municipal hospitals and creates an opportunity for the most paradoxical and unfavorable solution in the poorest country of the European Union the health system to finance medical institutions whose commercial interest should not be underestimated or questioned. Last but not least, it is necessary to emphasise the lack of a second pillar of funding in healthcare. The next but not second most important is the overall financing of the share of health care. Given that in the vast majority of the countries of the European Union 6.9% are allocated, and more than gross domestic product, to be allocated in Bulgaria 200 "250 euros per capita per year and to demand modern healthcare, it is simply ridiculous. Here is the place to pay attention to clear distortions of balance between spending public funds for health care, between medicines and medical devices, on the one hand, against payment of medical activity. While in the countries of the European Union this percentage reaches a maximum of 25. 30%, in Bulgaria in recent years the ratio has changed in an absolutely unacceptable direction and reaches almost 50-50. Drug policy also has several serious problems that require solutions. The constant withdrawal from the reimbursing list of strategically for individual directions of clinical medicine medicinal products leads to the need to purchase them directly from hospital units and cargo without their modest opportunities. The decentralisation of the auctions for medicines currently held by individual healthcare establishments has led to the paradoxical and absolutely adverse effect of a serious difference in the prices of the same medicines. Next, but not least, is the lack of a clear generic advantage in the volume of drug funds spent, which would release financial resources to introduce various forms of innovative therapy. There is no flexible policy for providing the market for medicinal molecules with a relatively limited but strategic role for certain cohorts of patients. No less serious is the problem of the personnel collapse, both with the need for a number of doctors, and also the sharp reduction in the last ten years by 25,000 on the number of nurses. Here the problem is not only about the lack of real evaluation of the professional work of these staffs, but also the lack of real opportunities for career growth and long-term qualifications. It is also extremely serious the problem of bringing the idea of electronic pharmaceutical auctions to an end, and also the creation within a foreseeable short time frame of the Single Electronic Exchange of Medical Devices, which will result in a very fast real price regulation. Last but not least, the lack of a state strategy should also be noted for the problem of palliative care of patients with extremely adverse prognosis. This puts tens of thousands of Bulgarian families in a position to be forced to assume in the family the fatal outcome for their loved ones. There's hardly anyone in this room who couldn't bear the burden of this problem. The change in approach could make sense of the existence of a large number of smaller establishments. Let's put it behind us, after the facts that have been presented, we can't stop at everything in an initial debate, the elementary counter-fighting and rhetoric exercises. Let the Health Commission become a generator of legislative efforts that will change in an optimal direction, starting tomorrow and in the coming months the health system. Otherwise, it could be fatally late. The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is offering the following concrete proposals: We believe that we need an immediate establishment of an interdisciplinary committee to start preparing for a change in the financial model of funding of the health system and the introduction of diagnostic-related groups. It is necessary to present within the next 3 months a real and consistent strategy for the development of medical institutions, in line with the health card, which should also be the basis of the starting negotiations for the National Framework Treaty. Steps must be speeded up dynamically in the field of electronic healthcare, especially for the creation of an electronic personal health file. A model for assessing the professional work of healthcare workers should be created urgently. Specific steps need to be taken to optimise both the higher education of medical and healthcare staff and their subsequent qualifications. It is also necessary, in the short term, for the implementation of the negotiations on the National Framework Treaty, to make a detailed overview of the financing of the existing clinical pathways. Next, recent and timely legislative initiatives are needed to address drug policy issues, including the re-export of medicines. By graduating, I would like to share with you all that we are clearly aware that professor's team. Petrov has been in the Ministry building for 20 days and he cannot be responsible for the problems that have accumulated for 20 years. But the time for their placement is now, and I hope with the participation of everyone in this House that we will try to resolve them within reasonable time limits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u7	Thank you, dear Professor. Mikhailov. You are welcome to present the second Bill, Dr. Davidkova, and the Draft Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our proposal for a draft decision is in the spirit of parliamentary precision, procedural and regulatory correctness, because we are in a questioning and debate procedure, which begins with the theme of the state of hospital care institutions. Please, Mr. Chairman, without entering into a procedure in the manner of conduct, keep a close eye on the exhibitions, because the colleague has made a programme declaration that would rather be addressed to a statement by a parliamentary group and has failed to present the specific draft decision that we should be voting on today. Then I will take the opportunity to point out the advantages of our Project for a solution in relation to the logic of the parliamentary questioning of BSP colleagues. Therefore, I will now only present the specifics of the Project for a solution that we are proposing. The findings of the sector....... each has made them in their election campaign, has proposed a solution in the programs with which we have tried to gain the trust of the Bulgarian voters. Only the roles have already been distributed. I call for consensus and constructiveism on the part of the opposition, especially for such important sectors as....................... but we still need to know the regulations and procedural rules. I would appeal to my fellow Members on the left if they had taken advantage of the time in the early quiet days of parliamentaryism to get acquainted with these documents so that we would not get into misunderstandings now. In addition, I think it would have been more useful instead of hysterical to submit bills and look for opportunities for questions, signals and others...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u9	On the draft decision, dear Mrs. Davidkova!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u10	Mr. Chairman, I hope you'll be as correct to me as you are to...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u11	You yourself have stated that you will present a draft decision, but you have set a bad example.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u12	One more minute. I would like to advise my fellow Members to carefully familiarize themselves with the procedures and, in this sense, I would point out that parliamentary veterans are sometimes useful. With regard to the draft decision, we propose that the Minister of Health twice a year in June and December submit to the Committee on Health of the National Assembly a report on the current financial situation of state and municipal hospitals for hospital care. By 31 December 2017, the Minister of Health shall submit information to the Committee on Health of the National Assembly on the readiness for the implementation of uniform standards for the management of state and municipal hospitals for hospital care and the establishment of regulatoryly established mechanisms for control of their implementation. The financial situation of the NHIF budget for this year on the latest information from the directors of hospital care facilities seems alarming. In this regard, the debate was in the Committee on Health in order to get acquainted with the ongoing implementation of the Casa budget and the problems which created the methodology established by the NHIF Supervisory Board with regard to the allocation of estimated values to hospital care facilities. We expect a decision from the authorities responsible for this, and I believe that in this logic it is useful for the Health Committee to monitor in due time the financial situation of hospital care facilities. This information will also be useful to the Ministry because it is important to take into account the problems in due time, but not to accumulate them, which leads to a serious financial situation of the medical institutions that have already been mentioned. Because if in time the owners of the medical institutions, the state or municipalities are specifically talking about this type of property, due to the limitations of asking BSP colleagues, we really need to react adequately, precisely when good decisions can be made. Our second proposal is in this spirit because it is a fact that in the state of hospital and medical assistance in which it is located and the way of funding in the Bulgarian system, there are still medical institutions that successfully cope with management. I believe Professor Scully's expertise. Petrov in this regard, managing a medical establishment, which, I stress, was not a commercial company, but has accumulated serious obligations, will be extremely useful for the introduction of uniform standards for management of public health institutions. We can also benefit from the expertise of BSP colleagues, in which there are also managers of medical institutions in serious financial condition. So we will be at your disposal for good proposals on how healthcare establishments can be managed precisely and looking for even better long-term solutions for Bulgarian healthcare, which I hope will be achieved on the basis of consensus. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u13	Thank you, dear Dr. Davidkova. On the third bill, come in, Dr. Jeffer. Honourable Members, allow me to remind you of the legal framework for questioning, which is contained in art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 105 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: Since the topic is a strategy for the development of medical institutions, we believe that it is quite wide, on which I can hardly limit any of the speakers. You have the floor, dear Dr. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u14	Thank you for your clarification, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In recent years, we've become accustomed to the bankruptcy of municipal hospitals. Seventeen of them went to nothingness. Today we are talking that there is a threat of bankruptcy of district hospitals. It's only a matter of time before how many of them will go into nothingness as well. The so-called "University Hospitals" " 100% government property" have accumulated a significant amount of debt. The debts of medical institutions have long crossed the psychological limit of 500 million. lv. The health insurance model with one monopoly fund generates a deficit annually, lastingly. The unpaid costs of the NHIF become debts of hospitals, i.e. the deficit of the Health Insurance Fund is transformed into a lasting deficit of medical institutions. It is wicked that with the adoption of the budget every year, January and February, there is talk of the redistribution of the operational reserve. The plan was to distribute this money in the last quarter, and somewhere in March and April it began to talk about updating the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. The delusion, the manipulation, the frank lie in the previous few years that the Health Insurance Fund has no debts, no unpaid costs, is financial equilibricism that is convenient for management-political purposes, however, is far from reality. The NHIF forms a deficit transferred from year to year. He owes to treat Bulgarian citizens abroad about 200 million. lv. Nineteen million are clearly unpaid for 2016, which the Cashier has also admitted and about 50 million. lv. were paid through another budget for another year. Despite attempts to introduce regulation, this clearly did not lead to a better quality of the health service, nor to less money in the public sector. We have witnessed small savings that have led to great disappointments in patients and working in the system, an endless string of panic-proof ideas and chaotic solutions, a series of loudly published ideas and measures with a vague effect. So the problem with hospital care is systematic, structural, principled, not just some financial issue. That is why we identify five reasons for this severe deficit that cannot be ignored. First of all, the introduction of new high-tech methods of diagnosis and treatment, of innovative medicines, of new structures and expansion of activities. There is no stopping the development of medical science. No one's been able to do it, and we're not gonna do it. That's a fact, and we have to comply with it. Secondly, the broken functional link between the individual units of the health care system between primary and non-patient care, specialized outpatient care, inter-hospital treatment. Thirdly, the unfulfilled transfer of activities and responsibilities from hospital care to outpatient care, which leads each year systematically to overhospitalization. In fourth place, the almost missing structures for healing and long-term treatment, lack of palliative care and their financing adequately on reality. In fifth place, medical institutions perform more and more social functions. That is why we see the outcome in control, transparency, predictability in the system. This is what colleagues who work in it expect. Creating and building finally the almost legendary, first of all, a single, integrated information system and e-health system with all the attributes of this e-health e-health file, e-card, e-recipe, e-direction so that we can show that we are in modern Europe. Secondly, the demonopolization of the Health Insurance Fund, improvement of the financial model. Thirdly, overcoming regional imbalances even through the National Health Card, but fairly overcoming the problems of equal access. Fourth place systemic prophylaxis in clinics, early diagnosis. We cannot afford to pay hundreds of millions for expensive and late treatment without effect, but not to devote funds to prevention and screening. Fifthly, protectionism in terms of human footage. Hospitals go bankrupt for nothing else, they go bankrupt for lack of doctors and lack of nurses. We have seen ministers with many ambitions and ideas over the years. We saw ministers who had the basic idea of keeping calm and status quo and doing nothing. We saw ministers with administrative experience and vision who, however, did not have political support to carry out what they had planned. We're realistic. Honourable Professor. Petrov, we believe that you have a unique opportunity to change something. But we will not ask you to make strategies that will just be part of many strategies. And that's why our draft decision involves real things. We believe that we are proposing two real steps that you should take. Within two years, an e-health system shall be established and implemented with all its components: e-health dossier, e-health card, e-recipe, e-direction for transparency, control and efficient use of financial resources in the health system. Secondly, we ask the Minister of Health to present to the Committee on Health within six months the concept of providing medical staff to the healthcare system and their career development. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u15	Thank you, dear Dr. Jaffer. Honourable Members, before we proceed to a debate, I shall inform you of the time in connection with the application of Article 1. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which each parliamentary group has: the political party parliamentary group GERB has 19 minutes; the group of the BSP for Bulgaria The time of one hour is determined by the special text of art. 105, para. 2 and it shall not be subject to art. 58, para. 2, that is, it cannot be extended. You have the floor to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u16	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Last Friday I asked the Minister of Health for the Strategy for Hospital Development in Bulgaria. As expected, the minister replied that he was led by the National Health Strategy in its hospital development unit. Yes, but both the Minister and I know very well that this Strategy is no longer up to date, Mr Minister, because many of the deadlines within it, which prejudge the development of hospital health in particular, are already lost and they cannot be compensated. Many of the things that are at stake in it are no longer relevant. And they can't be done. So I asked: what is your strategy, Minister? Moreover, the main stone, the key stone of this Strategy, called the National Health Card, was cancelled by the court. Without the National Health Card, we cannot talk at all about the development of health care in our country. Today we have a large part of the governors of the district hospitals in the country, including the Chairman of the Association Dr. Nelly Savcheva. In front of them, I cannot not put the question again, and I will not tire of putting it before the institutions and before you above all else. When will we have a fair limitation of the activities of hospitals in Bulgaria, when? I'm not saying over-liminal activity. When the Health Insurance Fund will pay the outstanding and outstanding activity for 2015, 2016 and 2017 until now. This is a key question without an answer. We're going to talk about what Dr. Jeffer just said to hospitals that we're risking going bankrupt. I would also like to say a few words on my fellow Members' projects. Undoubtedly, what they put as a draft decision, Dr. Jeffer and Assoc. Chakarov "e-health" is the other key stone. Without it, we cannot talk about the development of hospital healthcare and the entire national healthcare system at all. There must be no doubt about it. The project of Dr Daritkova and a group of MPs. Dr. Daritkova, I cannot agree with the appropriateness of your proposal for a decision that the Minister of Health should provide us twice a year with a reference to the financial situation of hospitals. It's clear. There we have paid limited activity and not paid above the limit of activity, and above the limit of activity is in the column..................................................................................... You blamed me for not knowing the legal base. I think you have no right, because you are proposing that the Minister of Health be accountable for the financial situation of municipal hospitals. So how do we do it?! It does not have any database in the Ministry of Health and does not collect data on municipal hospitals about the financial situation. They have a principal... the local authorities. With the other point of your Project Decision... on the status of hospital management in Bulgaria. I think we have precise and clear rules for managing hospitals in Bulgaria. Unfortunately, they are listed not in the Law on Medical Institutions, but in the Commercial Law and I do not know if you understand. Petrov in front of a heavy dilemma and I don't want to be in his place. He must answer whether, as a minister, such as Dr. Petrov, the Minister of Health, for which the main purpose are companies and profits, or as Dr. Petrov, the doctor who fights daily to save the lives of patients, is the main purpose of hospitals to save the lives and health of patients?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u17	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? I won't. Dear Minister, I remind you that at any time you wish, you can take an attitude. To speak, the public representative Daniela Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u18	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, the sector.... includes different elements and when we talk about it, global vision is important, so prevention and prevention really are key priorities in our management programme. In this case, we are limited by the topic that colleagues have asked about hospital services. It is in this regard that we have developed our proposals in the draft decision that are offered to your attention. Why do I think that legally and legally incorrectly proposed the draft decision colleagues from BSP? Because we don't have legal definitions for municipal and public health. Why eliminate all other existing types of property in healthcare? The fact is that under the Constitution the property is equal. An isolated strategy cannot be made for sectors that do not exist under the sector's regulatory framework. A strategy is produced under the Health Act and it is called the National Health Strategy. Such a Strategy was adopted in December 2015 by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria and in it we have tried to outline the forecast, perspectives and objectives that we want to achieve for our national health system with horizon 2020. We usually really aim at public health indicators. How are we going to achieve them?............. only through hospital care facilities is, of course, the subject of the specific decisions of the executive. There is also a plan for action to be drawn up in this Strategy. I hope you'll get to know him very carefully. If you have any objections, expose them and look for relevant regulations in existing laws that will allow your intentions to be realized as long as they are in the interests of the Bulgarian citizens. From the point of view of your second proposal, which concerns the National Health Card, the Law on Medical Institutions clearly defines the ways in which it is formed. The National Health Card is a fact, it is made by the Minister of Health, the relevant committee, adopted by the Council of Ministers. It is confirmed and accessible to all Bulgarian citizens. Bulgarian lawmakers also have access to it, they can find it, read it, get acquainted, and again, if you have objections to its content, there is also a line set out in a regulation by the Minister of Health to update this National Health Card. It could really serve to align the access of Bulgarian citizens and overcome regional imbalances, and this is its main ambition, because indeed in time we have disproportionate development of the various health services in the different regions of the country. Our ambition is to achieve equal accessibility of health services for all Bulgarian citizens, so there is no way to support your Project for a solution. We support the DPS colleagues' decision project because it really is in line with the management program that we have written. Its key priority is the establishment of a single national health information system. The implementation of a project for the construction of such a system under the Operational Programme is under way and the deadline for the implementation of this project is in line with the draft decision proposed by our colleagues from the DPS, i.e. by 31 December 2018 we must build the elements of this information system. The quality of the system is key, so we also support the second decision. We believe that we should really build a strategy for preserving the personnel in Bulgaria that define the profile of the Bulgarian health system. The fact that we currently have good health care is due to the tireless work of Bulgarian healthcare professionals, the Bulgarian doctors. Politicians are in debt to them, and I truly acknowledge it. We really need to look for good principled solutions with a long-term vision, so I propose that the draft decision of our parliamentary group be supported and supplemented by this. 3 et c. 4 The proposals of the colleagues from the DPS. I propose the following editing for these points again in the spirit of legal correctness: The Minister of Health shall, within two years, carry out the necessary actions to implement a single health information system in order to achieve transparency, control and effective spending of the funds in the healthcare system. As the fourth item in the final draft decision: "To enter by 31 December 2017 the Minister of Health to present to the National Assembly the concept of providing and developing medical specialists in the healthcare system. Colleagues, we need to go out with a project after this questioning procedure. I hope that this extended draft decision, which is in line with the regulations and regulations, will be supported by all reasonable Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Come in, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Dr. Daritkova, dear Minister! First, you talk about consensus, then you talk about good health care. Where did you see this good health care, Dr. Daritkova? What area? Here, we all know how difficult access is. It is precisely the lack of funds that makes these Bulgarian doctors become real heroes because their activities are really completely underfunded. I put aside the fact that funding is different in different areas, which is outrageous. I can talk about the Stara Zagora area, but I'm putting it aside, which is really in one of the last funding areas. Explain to the Bulgarian citizens why the services are really getting worse? Why are municipal and regional hospitals forced to barely survive and de facto move towards closure? At the same time you are talking about very good quality, about very good access. After all, where did that 2 billion go? The leva you stole...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u21	This isn't on the Decision Project, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u22	... GERB, which you stole during the time of Borisov 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u23	Mr. Stoynev! I'll take your word for it, Mr. Stoinev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u24	Bulgarian citizens need to know this truth because the bad quality is due to your policy. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u25	Mr. Stoinev, I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u26	For nine years, you've ruled. What happened? The poor quality, lack of access, the fact that Bulgarian medics are leaving the country that there is a shortage of nurses is precisely your mistake. That's it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u27	Second line. "The People's Representative Georgi Mihaylov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Dr. Daritkova, I did not expect that in this serious debate we would enter into legal rhetoric. This has been happening to me for the third time in contact in the last thirty days, both in the Health Commission and here in the Chamber. I'm asking you, as someone I trust very much and have known for many years, not to shift the argument in this direction, because he is very serious. The debate is very serious, both from a political point of view, even though healthcare is an outside party policy, and from a professional point of view. Since everything you say is available and is available to every MP, we know the following facts. The national health card made by the team of the previous government has been declared invalid. It is sufficiently compromised in the eyes of all professionals, challenged by the Doctor's Union. The entire Health Development Programme, which we are constantly repeating, has a project for one or two, has been practically up and running for the last few years. In order not to get into this regulatory debate, what is possible, exactly what should be done by the norm, I would like to hear the opinion of a serious professional as professor. Petrov. I think it would be useful for us to say his opinion, starting now the management of health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u29	Thank you, Professor. Mikhailov. This can happen after the procedure is over. Is there a third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Daritkova, I think that things are much deeper here than dividing the hall into reasonable and irrational MPs. Perhaps there is no reason that we are on the ground observing a phenomenon of the breakdown of district hospitals, at least we in Lovech. That's where the hospital won't be closed, that's where the hospital's falling apart. I was thinking yesterday, dear Professor. Petrov, that at least some specific compartments will not be interested... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u31	I'm asking for a line to Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u32	Yes, I do. We're watching something else... [[Replications from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Daniela Daritkova. Noise and lines by GERB.]] Thank you, I'm moving on. Because there's not gonna be a Department of Pathology since yesterday at the Lovech Hospital. We've come this far. From then on, the debts that hospitals have all require an urgent solution, not some view of the future, for some guarantees contained in some of the projects for a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u33	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are here and we are sworn to uphold the Constitution and the laws of the country. [[Applause from GERB.]] Knowing the rules is mandatory. We do not solve the specific problems that the executive has in its functions to solve. In this sense, there are indeed hospitals that are in severe condition, but I represent an area where the hospital is in good financial condition and this is due to the good management and control that is exercised on it. That's why we have different situations. I know that the real communist is willing to share everything equally, even the sin of Oscar Wilde said so. [[Applause from GERB.]] However, in this situation it is more important indeed that we here, in the meeting, draw global priorities because the concrete decisions will be made by the Ministry's team. It is also important to understand the healthcare system, the ways of funding. There is no way I can educate you now that we have a solidarity model and the funding approaches are that everyone is using the help they need and according to... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u35	Please don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u36	...the representation of medical services in the regions concerned and not distributed per capita. This is a profound misunderstanding of our solidarity funding model. We have a lot of problems, but I said we have quality Bulgarian doctors. It is on them that the good quality of Bulgarian healthcare is maintained. We have dedicated nurses and we are all in debt with them and we do not have to struggle to accumulate political dividends from the findings that are clear. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] We have to offer solutions. And I'm really counting on sensible decisions. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u37	Please, Mr. Stoinev. Professor Petrov, would you like to take an attitude?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u38	At this stage, no.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u39	Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u40	Mr. Glauchev, unfortunately, in this National Assembly, from the beginning to the end we will always talk about the same things, and one of them is that I ask you not to allow sharpening of the tone, especially when it comes to things that I think either do not refer to the conversation or refer exactly in the opposite direction. As many times as you intervene the so-called communists, I'll call you, Mrs. Daritkova. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because in communist times, there was health care, which wasn't there in your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u41	Please, to me, Mr. Kutev, not to Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u42	Yes, yes, to you. You can't and don't let this conversation come in like this, because when you let the conversation come in and go in that direction, this will happen. Those communists had free health care, and you're ripping five skins off the current people. And these people upstairs, they're hospital directors, which you obviously call "incompetents," because they weren't like your... [[Noise.]] Well, I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u43	She didn't say that. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u44	And it's not true that if your statement is right now...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u45	Once again, I urge you to address me, not Mrs Daritkova, as she now...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u46	If your claim at the moment is that health care is in bloom, know that you are mistaken. [[(Replication by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova: Personal explanation.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u47	Or in the manner of conduct, choose your choice. [[Noise.]] I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am a practicing Bulgarian doctor and have deep respect for colleagues who are above who are managers and who know that they manage medical institutions successfully. But there are other examples, you know who they are. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoynev: "Four hundred million debt in your time. "]] I was talking about the joint responsibility and the sense of responsibility, because every particular case of a medical institution that is in a difficult financial condition can be found in time the responsibility of one or another municipal, regional or state government. So I appealed to promote good management experience and to keep the good tone, because, believe me, we are not in a revolutionary situation, the revolutionary plan is of no use to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u49	Please, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u50	This will not result in changes in the situation in the country. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] The management is stable, we will look for good solutions for Bulgarian healthcare. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u51	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u52	And I appeal to the really reasonable people to support us. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u53	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Here you are, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The argument really got very sharp. I'm part of Dr. Daritkova's bill. I want to support it and say just a few digits to the audience. Here were mentioned debts of 500 million of state and municipal healthcare. [[Replication from the BSP for Bulgaria ":" Only of the State. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u55	Please don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u56	Even if it's the state's. We know very well that these debts have not been accumulated yesterday, not that day, not last year, but accumulated during these 17 years since hospital health reform began. In these years, however, we know that private hospitals are placed in another situation, they work on clinical pathways and generate profits rather than debts, and public and municipal healthcare generates a lot of debts that you have seen. The richest health system in America, which is financed by more than 13% of gross domestic product, works with 85% generic medicines, and we work with a much smaller percentage, that is, the reserve is very large and that is why I wish the new team of the Ministry and the Health Commission together to generate joint solutions that will reduce hospital debts and stop this waste of public resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u57	Thank you, dear Dr. Popovski. For a statement first, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u58	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to draw attention to the issue of municipal hospitals, because they are undoubtedly the main elements of our health system. To date, numerous municipal hospitals are facing bankruptcy or are in a very difficult financial situation. The reasons for this are complex and are not limited to the problems in the healthcare system, but are rooted both in the consequences of social processes such as demographic collapse and economic processes. However, if we focus on variables that have the most direct consequences for the fate of municipal hospitals, it crystallises several fundamental moments. First of all, this is the way of allocating the funds of the National Health Insurance Fund and represents one of the most serious problems. The national health insurance fund of historical and largely unclear principle distributes the budgets of its regional centres. Regional centres, in turn, allocate funds between hospitals in the region itself in an equally opaque way. It is inexplicable why some hospitals receive much more money than others under equal conditions. Apart from the clinical pathways, they are underfunded and their prices have not been updated for years. Elevated medical standards often lead to absurd situations where, for example, surgeons with 25 years of internship are not allowed to treat diseases that they have treated so far. Recently, we are also seeing a new phenomenon from your management, esteemed on the right: private hospitals are hiring wards from municipal hospitals. So the question arises: is there no other bailout plan to come to this? Is this a first step towards privatizing municipal hospitals, what is it? The Cadre question is a problem of the entire healthcare system, but in municipal hospitals it acquires another dimension because it becomes a question of the survival of the hospital. Doctors are often at the border minimum, there are places where, if a doctor leaves, the whole hospital falls apart. There is also the topic of the remuneration of employees in municipal hospitals. The salaries there are the lowest, and in order to keep doctors, other offices of nurses, nurses are cut, which eventually leads to a reduced overall quality of health care offered in municipal hospitals. Today the debate is about a strategy in the field of health care and especially in hospital treatment. The existing 2020 Strategy correctly identifies the problems in the system and identifies measures to solve them. However, it does not distinguish between municipal and state hospitals. Although some problems are common to all types of hospitals, the municipal have their problems only characteristic for them. However, there is no differentiated approach to their resolution. As soon as possible, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you seek a way to repay the debt or part of the debt of municipal hospitals! Priority should also be to change the value of clinical pathways as well as to correct medical standards. In the longer term, a new formula for the distribution of funds from the National Health Insurance Fund and for strategies and vision for the future of municipal hospitals should also be considered. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Chakarov, come in, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister. Petrov, ladies and gentlemen! The methodology for financial limits introduced during the previous government, more precisely by the Minister of Health Petar Moskov, did not at all give the expected results of him - something that we at the DPS warned about from the very beginning, and in no way improved the activities of the medical institutions, the functioning of the healthcare system at all. On the contrary, the problems of the healthcare system have deepened, and many serious debts have started to accumulate again in all healthcare institutions. I'm not talking about the fingerprint system. What is left of it, apart from being a very wrong move, is only the unpaid funds that are again straining over the budget, which is in a difficult situation. Mr. Minister, Mr. Professor. Petrov, I welcome you for the position you expressed on June 1st in the Committee on Health that you have reservations about the methodology for financial limitation of hospitals precisely because of the fact that hospitals exceed the limits and accumulate the debts. Then you said: the health department will insist on a new methodology for the distribution of hospital limits. Public intolerance is quite high. We're running into some frappany cases. You pointed out that three hospitals have exactly the same standards in terms of beds, staff and activities, have different limits. This should by no means be accepted and is a very indicative example of how it is approachable when the National Health Card is defined and how our healthcare is functioning. I welcome your position in view that you are looking for dialogue with everyone, unlike Peter Moskov, who in no case made the most necessary to have an impact assessment or an impact assessment of these measures that he proposes and to what effect it would lead. I turn to you in view of another position that was expressed during an interview in the "New TV" station, namely that for structural-determining hospitals such as "Pirogov" and some of the district hospitals to drop the limits, but if the limits fall, there will have to be increased control of something that once again the DPS has always expressed that there must be extremely effective control. There is a serious approach, a key and a code with which activity can be improved, we all know what this is about, in order to avoid abuse, unfortunately, which are commented and are a fact. In this regard, I would like to have an answer to the question whether the system of financial limitation of hospitals will be removed and what time do you intend to do so? And it is good to have an awareness of the whole public if the limits for regional hospitals are dropped, how this will happen and in any case there should be a correct approach for regions with different standard of access, to have equal access for all patients to hospitals. It is evident that only in the "Pirogov" from May the excess of the shortage of funds is more than 500 thousand leva and mainly this excess of statistics is seen to be from urgent patients. On the other issue, which was very thoroughly presented by Dr. Jafer... for the introduction of e-health with all its components, I will not repeat myself. I would just like to say that we would really like this to be introduced, and you yourself, during the same Committee on Health on June 1st, pointed out that the electronic health card must also be introduced with a view to more effective control. We believe that this will improve both the activity and the effectiveness of spending funds. In view of this, we believe that we also took your position that the electronic health card could be introduced for a year and a half, for two years all these components to be introduced. And on the third issue, the situation is very worrying in view of the footage, turnover and age profile of the medical staff. We hope that the most adequate right approach on your part will be found so that there is personnel security and opportunities for career development of colleagues in the healthcare system. For the specializations and regulation, which was adopted at the time of Minister Moskov, no funds were provided and thus it was not activated effectively, adequately. We hope for positive steps to improve the functioning of the healthcare system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Are there any lines, fellow Members? No. To speak, the People's Representative Lachezar Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u62	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I would like very briefly to draw attention to a few basic points that are the subject of today's conversation. With regard to the limits of hospital care facilities, we should bear in mind that in recent decades on a European and global scale, health expenditure has increased significantly, while available financial resources continue to be limited. The reason for this imbalance is known to all. In view of the limited amount of time, I'm not going to go over this in detail. Overcoming this problem in our country can only take place if there is close cooperation between legislative, executive, medical and patient contractors. Each of us here in this Chamber wants to provide more health care funds, but we also need to answer the question It is the responsibility of all participants in the healthcare system to respect and control how the funds from our health contributions are spent. Every year, in an attempt to improve the quality and access to healthcare of every Bulgarian citizen, we increase the volume of activities paid by the NHIF. Accordingly, we lay down the necessary conditions for their financial security. We cannot fail to note that Bulgaria is one of the few countries in the European Union, which has such a comprehensive basic package and guaranteed access to timely medical care. The number of hospitals in Bulgaria is well above the average in the European Union. Mechanisms have been established for greater flexible distribution of hospital care funds according to patients' needs. Colleagues, we cannot disagree with the fact that every year health funds increase. In 2017 they exceed more than 1 billion. 613 million. 555 thousand. lv. For 2016, they were 1 billion. 457 million. 528 thousand. £900. As finances grow, we have no better health care. I will focus on three main reasons why the increase in money does not cover and does not satisfy both patients, medical services and doctors. First of all, to the problem that we are dealing with today, this is that of the money that is allocated to health care, the NHIF blocks 3% of the total money. A three-month total shall be determined by means of an opportunity to exceed 3% of the specified 3-months. In other words, the so-called over-liminal activities shall be realised but after the verification has been carried out. This, in turn, leads to a delay in funding for medical institutions. Second reason. According to the Ordinance and Annex No 7 laying down a package of health activities guaranteed by the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, the NHIF pays the highly specialized medical activities which precisely affect the budget and finances. It should be noted that the National Health Insurance Fund pays in addition to the established RHIF values, in this respect without limit, to activities such as haemodialysis, birth, intensive treatment, oncotherapy, radiosurgery, robotic surgery, positron-emission computer tomography, treatment and rehabilitation of child cerebral palsy and neuromuscular damage. All these activities that I have listed are precisely costly, which take up a lot of money. This is under Annex No 7. This is one of the reasons why the finances for 2017, as we see, are at a critical minimum. The third reason. As I have already mentioned, the number of hospitals and hospitals in Bulgaria is increasing annually. The number of medical institutions, as you all know, is increasing, and I think that an extremely important place here has the health card that has been accepted. It is also important that hospitals strive to raise their income by introducing new clinical pathways with new equipment and new, respectively, opportunities to provide a better medical service. The concept of restructuring the hospital aid system was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 16 December 2009, which aims to provide access to quality medical care for the population. Something very important that was accepted. The National Health Strategy 2020, adopted by decision of the National Assembly on 17 December 2015, is a leading strategic document which sets out the objectives for the development of the health system in 2020, which is prepared in accordance with Bulgaria's commitments at European and international level. Another moment that I want to fix before you is the national health card adopted by the Council of Ministers on 24 March 2016. It defines and plans the needs of the population to affordable outpatient and hospital medical care, on the basis of which to adapt the structure of the health network and to plan effective and fair use of resources. Based on what has been said so far, I believe that Bulgarian healthcare does not need to draw up new programming documents and strategies. The quantity does not guarantee the quality of the results. I think that we are all united around the idea that for better health care discipline, strict control and what was said before me by Dr. Chakarov, about e-health, the introduction of all elements of e-health. I believe that with today's adoption of a decision, we will be able to give the right direction for the proper spending of the funds by introducing strict control through all methods of eHealth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I would very briefly like to say three things that you find in the health care system. First, regulatory chaos. There are no medical standards canceled for different reasons. There is no national health card revoked by the Supreme Administrative Court. Second, financial collapse. My colleagues before me told me what it was about. Third, a lack of trust in the system. These are the three important rehearsals that you, together with the National Assembly, have to decide in the coming years, Mr. Minister. In recent years, several clichés have been imposed. The first cliché is the hospitals draining the National Health Insurance Fund. Now, in recent months, this cliché has been replaced by a new cliché: the National Health Insurance Fund is draining hospitals. However, we now have to ask ourselves the question: are the decisions we adopt in this National Assembly not giving the Cassata the opportunity to drain hospitals and hospitals to drain the Casa? These are very important questions that we need to pay our attention to. My fellow Members, I would like to say a few structural deficits characteristic of the health system. First of all, there are no measures at the entrance of the system for prevention, promotion and prevention of health. If there is a financial resource, there are very few of them and we all know what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u65	You've got 15 seconds left.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u66	Secondly, lack of care for long-term treatment and treatment. With such a structure of funding for health care, there is no way we can have the results we have at the moment. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u67	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Dr. Kolev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u68	Dear colleagues, I just want to say a few words. We are talking at the moment and we are focused on the problems they are a fact, they are prominent, there are them, but let's talk about the conditions that are a prerequisite for our medics to stay in Bulgaria. Where are the terms? Who breeds them? Do you expect the Minister of Health to solve the medical issue and they will stay? Medical work has a price. This work in our nearby countries and in the West is highly paid. The chances of these people staying with this pay here are slim. It is the state that must create health conditions entirely. We're not talking about health care right now. We're talking about illness. Health is a comprehensive complex of factors that must be solved at national level. Where is the national character in this case? Where are we talking about early diagnosis, early disease detection, early cheap treatment, and these patients not going into disassembled condition in hospitals that don't have enough money to stabilize them? From there on out of hospitals, we let some unprepared people at home take care of those who are mostly chronic. What is the general thought that I want to tell you? If we are not talking about unity in health care, if we are not talking about finding together with you ways to solve problems, if you and I together do not try to build on the existing health strategy, to form goals, to form priorities that we can put together, health care has no blues, no reds. People expect solutions from us, they don't expect idle talk. Forming important goals, forming goals, we have sub-targets: preventive health care, hospital care, post-hospital care. Where do you currently see, colleagues, paths to achieve goals? You can see that we are arguing and fighting not for the purposes, we all see that things are problematic, not for the basic strategies that we need to build on. The problem is the road to achieving these goals, and there we must unite and solve these things. One more question. Imagine the extent of the underfinancing. You know that the main cost of a hospital treatment is: the salaries of medical professionals and medicines. The drugs are stock-related prices. It's in the world, it's in the West, and here the prices are the same. The cost of labor also has a price. I ask you: with those currently underfinancing we have, how can the Ministry of Health handle the issue? There's no way! What gives me a great hope, however, is that I, as an economist, have watched Military Hospital, and Military Hospital had 120 million duties. 500 million is the current debt and about a quarter of the debt of all hospitals. They are now reduced and it is a well-functioning, well-functioning hospital. My opinion is that we should give these famous 100 days.... but why only 100 days... so that the health minister can bring order to this part, which we are currently debating. But too many expectations we lay directly on the health minister. We need the country as a whole and all of us to unite and help for both the health strategy and for the formation of the goals and for the paths to achieve goals and for the staff a special strategy for the staff, not for the stay in Bulgaria, but for the return of our personnel to Bulgaria! Then we'd have an effect. We could do the same on one condition if we all join together and help the Ministry of Health. We can't expect it to solve our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u69	Thank you, Mr. Kolev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to bring you back today in the debate on what we have gathered here, namely for discussion on a subject, and we need to come up with a draft decision and we are voting on it today. I agree, and I think you will agree with me that we will not be able to resolve all the health problems today. So let us return to the topic of the submitted draft decision by colleagues on the left, as, first, the Minister of Health by 1 September 2017 to present to the National Assembly a Strategy for the Conservation and Development of State Municipal Health. Again, let me remind you that there is a National Health Strategy adopted by the National Assembly in December 2015. And I don't know why here again you divide the health care into state and municipal, and there is a exclamation in me, where would you, for example, take the district hospitals that are ADs in this regard?! According to the second item of your submitted draft decision, by 31 December 2017 the Minister of Health will present to the National Assembly the new National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria. I will correct you, because here many times, one opinion has been made from the stand, which is the Supreme Administrative Court on a decision to cancel the National Health Card, which is not true. At the moment there are cassation complaints and there is to be an examination by the five-member members of the Constitutional Court on the health card, so we have one. And let me brief you on what reasons a new one may be required and tabled or amended in such a way. The Law on Medical Institutions............................................................................................... 34, para. 1: The National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria is validated by a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Health. And al. 2 is: The National Health Card is subject to an overall update every three years. A partial update shall be made where necessary in cases determined by a methodology under art. 29, para. 6................................................ And to remind you that the National Health Card was adopted by the Council of Ministers in 2015, which is still in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u72	In the manner of conduct, dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. President, please ask the MPs to declare a conflict of interest when speaking on this subject. All who have spoken so far to declare because we have doubts that some who have so far spoken are the owners of private hospitals. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u73	Dear Mr. Stoinev, according to art. 147 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, when submitting draft laws, statements or votes in plenary, or in committees, a Member of the National Assembly with a private interest from a problem under discussion......................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u74	What do you want me to declare?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u75	You shouldn't address me in a procedure in the manner of conducting such a thing. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mrs. Klisarova. I'm asking you to put your card on to take account of how much time you have left and to navigate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u76	Now. Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Petrov, ladies and gentlemen! I'll be brief, and I have an addition to the project on specializations. Very disturbing facts: 30 years I have worked in the health care system, I have changed many regulations. In the last edition, what happens? We say that any regulation is better than the previous one, to keep young people, young doctors in Bulgaria. Well, if about 600 young doctors end up in Bulgaria, there are 500 applications submitted for work abroad. These are the real facts! What we propose to Ordinance No 1 of 2015, especially under art. 234 of the Labor Code? What's the paradox? The colleague leaves the city where he lives and the hospital where he worked to go to specialize in another hospital. Only there's no room in the hospital, so he doesn't pay him, and he has to support himself, look for a second job to pay extra specialization. In this regard, I will say that Regulation No 1 must be changed so that the state has greater participation in the specialization of our young colleagues, especially in important specialties for the development of the health system in Bulgaria. Greater participation of the state and greater participation of municipalities! Yeah, we put a lot of money into training our young doctors, but what do we get? They're going abroad, working for other patients, and we're writing regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u77	Thank you, dear Professor. Klisarova. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u78	Honourable Professor. Klisarova, I cannot help but note the positive development in your understanding of the solutions projects. You are commenting on an element of our Project for a solution which concerns precisely a concept for the development and preservation of medical specialists in the Republic of Bulgaria. Therefore, I will give you the opportunity to further develop your thesis in order to convince your colleagues that our Project Decision really contains more elements that will allow to address and address the problems of the healthcare system in Bulgaria. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u79	Any other lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u80	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm making a cue for prof. Klisarova, because in this Chamber, honourable Members of Parliament, we can find common points of contact as regards what Prof. Klisarova said. Klisarova for education, for the specialization of health workers, this is point one; we can find common points of contact for the development of e-health
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u81	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u82	But we can't find the common ground on important things.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u83	I remind you that your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u84	I'm sorry. I just want to conclude that we differ in the way of funding public funds for public and private health.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u85	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. [[National Representative Valentina Naydenova continues to speak with microphones off. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Is there a third line? I won't. Professor Klisarova, please respond to these lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u86	I want to assure everyone that anything that is useful and will develop the healthcare system will happen and we will always support it. Is there supposed to be a management standard for this? What is this standard, with hospitals being specific, conditions being specific in different regions? Therefore, I think it is not important to have a standard for managing hospitals, but to have ways and principles to guarantee the financing of hospitals. Regarding the information, the one we should be getting twice a year, I think we can get it from the Health Insurance Fund. She can give us information about underfinancing. Of course, the Ministry can give us that information. Regarding the latter, the care for young doctors and their specializations, yes, this will be part of the system, as you just said, of the concept of providing staff in the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u87	Thank you, dear Professor. Klisarova. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Professor Petrov, would you like to take the floor? The Minister of Health has the floor. Nikolai Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u88	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This debate is extremely important to me personally, as well as to the team that is under my leadership. With this debate you show that this is a topic that you are interested in, a topic that must receive its attention and, above all, its decision. It is clear to everyone that this is about two levels of analysis and decision-making. The first level is strategic. If we rely on the regulations adopted by the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers, this means that the strategic line concerning the model is adopted and is not a topic of discussion. From the extremely detailed and objective analysis of Prof. Mihailov, for whom I thank him, is evident that the problems in the system are at a tactical level. Formula of distribution of funds from the National Health Insurance Fund. This is our money and it is clear to everyone that they are not enough to satisfy absolutely all the needs of the 343 hospitals in the country. What can be done in this direction? objectivity and transparency can be achieved. With regard to the so-called "admitable activities', there can be no total and total freedom. One man said that living in a society of people and feeling free is impossible. With regard to hospital management, do you notice, ladies and gentlemen, that we are only talking about debts of municipal, state, university but not of private hospitals? What does that mean? It means that the management model for private hospitals is good and effective. So we have to learn from this model! This can be achieved not with a strategy for managing medical institutions, perhaps that is not the most accurate word, but with control, control and again control If we have your support and the necessary minimum of time, we will report results, believe me. We'll have a lot of discussions, I'll have the pleasure of answering a lot of your questions. Then I will go into the details of why the university hospital in Stara Zagora is in the first place on overdue duties, why is it the University Hospital in Plovdiv, how, how and why is the hospital in Lovech in such a critical situation? Then we'll talk about dates, numbers and names, because I'm about publicity and transparency in management. Thank you. [[Loud and long applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u89	Thank you, dear Minister. We are going to vote on the proposed projects. The first one: Project! DECISION in connection with the debate on questioning, No 754-05-13 of 17 May 2017, by the National Representative Georgi Yordanov to the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on the Strategy for the Development of Hospital Services in the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Minister of Health shall present to the National Assembly a Strategy for the Conservation and Development of State and Municipal Health by 1 September 2017. 2. By 31 December 2017, the Minister of Health shall present to the National Assembly the new National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please vote. They voted 191 MPs: for 65, against 87, abstention 39. The draft decision shall not be adopted. I present to your attention a second. Project! DECISION in connection with the debate on question No 754-05-13, tabled by the National Representative Georgi Yordanov on 17 May 2017, to the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on the Strategy for the Development of Hospital Services in the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Minister of Health twice a year in June and December provides the Committee on Health of the National Assembly with a report on the current financial situation of state and municipal hospitals for hospital care. 2. By 31 December 2017, the Minister of Health shall submit information to the Committee on Health of the National Assembly on the readiness to introduce uniform standards for the management of state and municipal hospitals for hospital care and the establishment of statutory mechanisms for control of their implementation. First, I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova, made by the parliamentary platform, to supplement the project with a third and fourth point. Point 3 of the proposal reads as follows: "3." Within two years, the Minister of Health shall carry out the necessary actions to implement a Single Health Information System in order to achieve transparency, control and efficient spending of the funds in the healthcare system. Point 4 reads as follows: "4." By 31 December 2017, the Minister of Health shall submit to the Committee on Health of the National Assembly a concept for the provision and development of healthcare professionals in the healthcare system. These are the proposals. We are voting first on the creation of points 3 and 4, with the version which was presented to you by the parliamentary platform and then by me. They voted 194 MPs: 132, against 10, abstention 52. The proposal to create points 3 and 4 with the corresponding version that has been presented to you has been accepted. I am now voting on the entire draft decision, together with the points 3 and 4 which have just been adopted, the draft decision with its respective 1, 2, 3 and 4 points. Vote 194 MPs: 131 against 5, abstention 58. The draft decision has been adopted. We have a third project. If the importers of the third project agree that their proposals have entered this, I will not put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u90	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u91	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I ask for a re-vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u93	Thank you. One single motive may have.. someone has failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u94	Well, who?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u95	There's another one that doesn't work.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u96	Now we'll see if there's another motive. Please vote. Vote 192 MPs: 129 against 7, abstention 56. I will not put the third draft to the vote. I asked, the importers agree, so we are done with this point. I thank Minister Petrov for his participation. Let's move on to the next question. Debates on the inquiry by the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev and Manol Genov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for Multifamily Buildings. Allow me to provide you with a reference... [[(Radio, noise.) Members of Parliament from all parliamentary groups shall leave the Chamber.)]] Please let the Members who remain in the Chamber take their seats and those who leave make it a little more energetic so that we can continue in a normal environment. Please allow the Members of Parliament who remain in this Chamber to take their seats. Dear colleagues from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, please take your seats and if you have something to decide, somewhere else simply. Allow me to present you with a reference to the debates on the questions of the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev and Manol Genov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. The inquiry by the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev and Manol Genov was answered at the meeting on 2 June 2017, Friday. At the same meeting 53 MPs from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted proposals for discussions on the questioning together with the Project for a solution. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. The proposal for debate on the inquiry and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 2 June 2017, Friday. A second draft for a decision by 18 MPs from the political party GERB parliamentary group on 8 June 2017, Thursday, and was sent on the same day to the MPs in electronic form. Drafts submitted for a decision to be voted on: 1. Draft decision submitted by 53 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. No 754-00-27, of 2 June 2017, registered at 12,22 2. Project for a decision submitted by 18 MPs from the political party GERB parliamentary group, Vh. No 754-02-46, of 8 June 2017, registered at 15.19 You have 10 minutes of the project importers available. Who's gonna introduce him? People's representative Manol Genov. You have the floor, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I'll give the motive first. If the solution is necessary, you have it. According to its promised scale, the National Energy Efficiency Program for multifamily residential buildings is definitely among the favourites of the government of the cabinet Borisov 2 and logically exceeded its importance at the start of the cabinet Borisov 3. Far from it, however, is promising the analysis of the whole process for its implementation. More and more emphatically acquire emphatically severe findings of lack of control mechanisms, unexplained governance tolerance and negative practices, lack of conclusions in management and quality, lack of clearly defined responsibilities and synchronization between the institutions involved. The experience gained, Mr. Minister, from these 400 buildings so far gives a clear basis for a lasting accumulation of negatives with financial terms and damage to the state budget. As of 31 January 2017, there were accrued interest on the Bank for Development amounting to 3 million. lv. They were charged as a result of late payments by the Ministry to the Bank. The wicked idea of systematic accumulation of interest is set as a bomb in the mechanism itself and the start-up structure of the Programme and the damage of this is inevitable. Within the framework of the contracts algorithms of the Programme itself, the Ministry sends amounts to the Bank after the buildings are put into operation. This mechanism naturally generates interest because of the duration of the investment process itself. There is also no normal logic under the mechanism by which the interest rate charged to the Bank on amounts already paid out by the Bank is formed. The irresponsible lack of agreements on terms, terms and conditions of payment between the Ministry and the Bank is drawing attention to the inability to pay principals and interest at the moment. The procedure for drawing up such an agreement has started as early as 2016, but there is no explanation why it has not been finalised so far. It is a general puzzle, why was this Agreement not a fact earlier, and why has the Bank not requested that payments of the already completed buildings be reimbursed by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works with Republican Budget money after being paid to the contractors? To put it mildly, the mechanism for making payments is also imperfect. Before and now it looks like this: The Council of Ministers voted on the funds from the budget that are entered in the Ministry, where they are transformed into the Bank for payment to the contractors. The failure of this practice is the fact that funds are being spent by the Bank, intended for construction works, which, however, is not the Bank, but someone else is checking on the ground whether they are implemented in quantity and quality, according to the technical documentation adopted by each building. There is no explanation of the lack of established practice for the so-called physical on-site inspection, during which the quality and quantity of construction works are established at expert level and then payments are made. There is no rule, according to the methodological guidelines of the Programme for eligibility of expenditure, there is absolutely no ex ante control of the eligibility of these costs. The question arises, is it an oversight, a lack of expertise, or is it conscious, of course, in someone's interest?! Totally inconvenient for the management polishes and the crisis with the uncertainty of financial resources of all buildings where owners have registered an association. Still no answer. There are no control mechanisms to ensure the risk of financing ineligible activities outside the scope of methodological guidance. Here, chaos is like a free fall regime. Such activities have so far been paid out by the contractors' banks. The control of these payments, however, strangely, is linked to the district governors, who do not normally have such a mandate, but even less have experts and the necessary expertise, qualifications and experience. There is also no financial resource available to organise the implementation of their duties under this Programme. The Regional Governor must sign the minutes and certify that the funds used are adequately spent... only for eligible activities. According to instructions and methodologies, he has obligations to sign the minutes by certifying the exact payment amount. However, payments shall not be made on the basis of this Protocol, but on the basis of anexes where the amounts are distinguished, as these are amounts of the actual contracts following the procedures carried out. The reasons for this omission are at least two: insufficiently clearly defined methodological guidelines for eligibility of actions and the lack of a control mechanism on quantitative-value accounts for each building. Such problems are solved in the country by the other paying agencies responsible for spending the funds under the various programmes and are controlled in advance for eligibility by activities already at the level of the project readiness, then there is re-control the so-called physical control. Weakness is also, in our opinion, the unification of design and construction as an engineering in a whole procedure. This saves, of course, time, but leads to poor quality of the construction works, the designers always remain subordinate to the builders. The so-called independent projects are born. The trend has continued lately to increase the number of complaints by citizens who live in such already completed and operational buildings. Explainably strong public interest provoked the high reference values as well. The same were originally defined in the hypothesis of carrying out constructive strengthening activities. They subsequently decreased twice after it was clearly seen from the procedures carried out until then that they had not been provided for and were not carried out. Without any defensive argumentation, the scope of eligible activities was constantly changed and, if constructive reinforcement were needed anywhere, it should have been carried out at the same prices. At present, the reference prices set by the methodological guidelines are still far above the market, insofar as they relate only to energy-efficient measures, a large volume of accompanying them. A compromise element in the Programme itself proved to be the lack of a regulation to provide information about the various activities of the Programme between the participants. As a result, two months before the adoption of the Programme and the very decree by which it was adopted, the financial resource of 2 billion. lv. The 1 billion voted and available at that time was exceeded by 200 million. Even then, one of the reasons for voting the second billion itself was that the first one had ended and there is great interest in it that there are many waiting. It is understood that the so optimistic second billion, through which the Programme was to continue, was agreed on green literally with virtual, non-existent money. It is even more scandal that this was done in absolute financial chaos in conscious violation of any rules and the Public Finance Act. And there is no single dangerous consequence, on the contrary. It is absolutely expected that there will be a waved increase in the number of associations. According to your information, as you said, they've already reached six thousand. The management is responsible for the answer to this question: why has the government of political party GERB been hiding for a year that the money for renovations ended that they were contracts on green? What was the point of misleading tens, hundreds of thousands of people living in these buildings, waiting optimisticly for the sanitization line? That answer is still glowing in red, Mr. Minister, because no one takes the risk of responding. The vices of the program and the disastrous effects don't stop there. The blocking of competition through the program's Rule of the Program One candidate "one site in one municipality" combined with the high reference values led to the draining of public financial resources under the Programme due to the fact that many of the orders represented one, two, a maximum of three candidates. This led to the conclusion of the contracts after finalisation of the procedures in order to maintain the high reference values for the performance of the construction works. In conclusion, I would like to say: the increased benchmarks allowed for the conclusion of public procurement contracts, the allowed financing of eligible activities, the accumulation of interest to be covered by the resource provided under the Programme, lead directly and permanently to a reduction and even destruction of real efficiency, since the inappropriate spending of funds is a fact. And, Minister, denying this heavy and comprehensive commentary on the Energy Efficiency Program of buildings does not keep anyone warm! It's a long time ago to get on with it, all of us, in general, to sanitize this gravely controversial Programme. Otherwise, she won't be the only one to collapse under the weight of her own negatives. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u98	Thank you, Mr. Genov. The time for submission of the draft decision is over. I shall be obliged before the debates to recall the time of the parliamentary groups allocated according to art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly: the parliamentary group of GERB has 19 minutes, the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group "BSP" In the time of the parliamentary groups do not enter the duplicates, but enter the lines, procedural issues except those relating to the manner of conduct. Since this is often used, I recall the procedure. At the end of the debates, we will vote on the draft decision presented by Mr. Genov and another draft decision which has been received in due time and is to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly, which has been tabled by the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. We are proceeding with the debate. You have the floor. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you are, so we can read the second draft decision. The first one wasn't introduced... [[Heckling]] I meant it wasn't read. Please come in for a presentation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will start with absolutely no dose of sarcasm with gratitude to my colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria. Why? Because the issue of the Energy Efficiency Programme really concerns more than 2 billion. BGN, which is the money of the taxpayer, which goes for an energy efficiency and constructive strengthening of the multi-family residential buildings and it is nice to really thank you again for bringing up the topic again, to say again what the benefits of this Programme are, what the effect of it is. I will thank you, of course, for one more thing for your catharsis, which you have also been able to experience and the political maturity that you have reached to talk about it, not that the program should be stopped, but about what defects there are in it and how it should be improved, because, if we remember, before we begin the program what the talks were and what we were forced to do, colleagues from GERB, to face, how to explain to the citizens that, if you see, they will not steal their apartments, that no one has the purpose that the Programme really aims to reduce energy and heat with 40-50% that no one will deceive them that they will have control over what happens to their buildings. And I really thank my colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria that they have been able to live up to this point to talk about defects and not about termination. And not only that! If you remember, if memory serves me right, even with your leader Mrs Cornelia Ninova before, you literally may have spent months talking about how this Programme should be centralized, how public procurement procedures should be done on lots, centralized, and not as it has been done so far by the municipalities, by the mayors. Hem yesterday you were talking in the Decentralisation concessions Act, and you were talking about how mayors should have more powers, supposedly the local authorities have more powers, and you're both going out, for example, and you had such a theory about how to centralize, you see, these auctions. And I am glad that you have come to this conclusion that you should not, but should, on the contrary, have all the authority, all the responsibility to be, of course, under the control of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, with the aim and the intention of having a residential policy, and yet you have reached the conclusion for which I thank you. I would like to say once again what the benefits are and what the benefits are, a few figures that I think are very important to society and to all Members of the National Assembly to understand the importance of this Programme. I'll start by saying that this program is really late. Each of you has had the opportunity to safely travel, to see in other Eastern European countries how these issues have already been resolved many years ago. We not only have to continue this Programme, not only do we have to complete it successfully, the allocated resource of this 2 billion. lv. for those 2022 blocks that have already concluded funding contracts, we must look for how this Programme is to be developed. Indeed, in our Project for a Decision, it is very much responsible for your wish in your Project for a decision of the BSP for Bulgaria and there is an adjustment on the deadlines as well as the Ministry of Regional Development, Public Works and has its considerations on the information it needs to provide and what time it would take to really be able to say what the scope from here on for the Programme will be. And there really is something to be desired from the point of view of control. There must be something to be desired in terms of transparency. There is, of course. Perhaps I forgot to mention an essential issue which, by my understanding and by the understanding of many fellow Members, should be sought possibly in the future to be part of the money as funding from private owners. At the beginning, when the Programme started and knowing, given previous programmes, when there was co-financing, usually the participants in this Programme were few, had no confidence in the Programme, but now that they are beginning to see what the real effects are literally from their neighbours, then I am sure and believe, and I hope that people, even with some small percentage of co-financing could, would like to participate because they can really face the positives of it. This, of course, is yet to be discussed and there is no better place than this tribune of the National Assembly to be precisely so in order to upgrade this Programme. Let's see from here on out after that $2 billion. lv. what will be the scope of the buildings that will fall within this Programme, what will be the measures that will be financed under it, whether there will be, or not there will be co-financing, whether it will cover, and I hope that in the future it will also cover single-family residential buildings. However, these are funds from the taxpayer's money, they are on the principle of a solidarity model. I don't really need to sanitize my block, but people do. Not just because of the sanitization, but that we can extend the lives of these blocks. That's why I just said, not only is it not on time, we're even late. Here I thank the whole group of GERB, the previous parliamentary groups of GERB, the previous governments of Boyko Borisov that we managed with common efforts not only to convince people of the usefulness of this Programme, to show the effects. Thank you, of course, and the government, which in recent years, precisely through the fight against smuggling, through abuses and so on, we have managed to improve the economic performance of the state, we have also managed to provide the necessary resources of 2 billion. BGN for the program to start and give its effects. I would like to mention here several figures that I think are very important in terms of the economic and financial parameters that this Programme has achieved so far. As I just said, we have 2022 blocs that have concluded an anexics with the Bulgarian Development Bank, which are subject to funding of precisely these 2 billion. BGN, which we voted here in this Chamber, twice. I'll talk a little bit in numbers. The amount of electricity saved from these multi-family residential buildings I told you about is at 975 thousand. Megawatts per year. If we multiply it by the price of consumers who pay for electricity, it will answer the question that it is 130 million. lv. They may not be the most accurate figures, each year they are saved by the accounts of consumers. What does that mean? The first very important effect: the economic effect is for people living in these buildings, because money remains in consumption because people have this 130 million. lv. And they can do whatever they want. Separately, the economic effect is different. I am sure and I believe not because I say it, all the much more developed countries of us are struggling with precisely this policy "energy efficiency" is a topic that has a future, and it is the future of the world. Renewable energy sources, as well as energy efficiency, are the future of the world. Not to finance costly projects to build new capacities just to satisfy some economic and political whims, precisely through such programmes, precisely through this saving we can guarantee the country's energy independence. I will give you other figures in terms of ecology: 319 kilotons of saved greenhouse emissions per year. We're talking about ecology, right? Here, this is a simple principle of how we can thus make the country we live in more ecologically clean. Not to mention the other economic effect. There is an accusation on your part that the companies were on GERB. I'll just give you a number. In these 1,000 blocks, where construction works are currently being carried out, there are 600 companies. Come on, look, a total of 1000 multi-family residential buildings 600 companies perform construction and installation activities. Are all the companies on GERB? If you make a reference, I'm sure that's exactly the kind of number when you see it, you won't be so sure of what you're saying. Among other things, that's 75 grand. people who are directly employed in these companies. Not to mention companies outside these 600 that are suppliers of different types of materials. Besides giving jobs to people, giving economic benefits, giving more money... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want a correction to the draft decision. Can I get another minute from the time of the group?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u100	On behalf of the group, yes. You have already come in time for debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u101	Thank you. I would like to return to the subject of economic and financial benefits, because direct and indirect taxes entering the treasury are really tangible. It is this money that is not lost in the space, but goes to the benefit of the citizens, in favor of reducing their accounts and benefits for the state already that these companies have jobs, pay wages, reduce unemployment, pay taxes, be direct, be indirect, and the effect is very, very, very beneficial. Since it's a little dry when we only talk in numbers, I would very much like to show you the difference between how we spend public resources and how you do it over the years. Yesterday, as I was preparing for my speech, I was very curious why you keep bringing up this topic, why do you always want to talk about it?! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And you know, last night, I finally found out. [[Laughter and raging]] what your motive was and why you didn't like the program. [[Noise and lines.]] You guys don't like her because people like her. Now, that really hurts. [[Applause and excitement in GERB.]] In order not to be naked and you have the opportunity to disprove me, I will show you how to spend the taxpayer's money. [[Shows two pictures.]] Here, this is a block in Bratsigovo what it looked like and what its kind is at the moment. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u102	Show the block in Stara Zagora that ran.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u103	Yes, yes, exactly, Mr. Gokov. I would ask you to come out in a moment and say: what is the effect of the investment programme at the time of the Oresharski cabinet worth 500 million, since many times in debates with your colleagues I have argued? Show me one thing that's been done for those half a billion levs. I want Mr. Gokov to come out on the stand now and tell me one thing, not much, one significant thing, done with that 500 million and what the effect of it is. What I told you was the difference between this Energy Efficiency Programme and that 500 million. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] which you spent, I apologize for the dictionary, rather squandered. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u104	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Nenkov has started the debate already. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the House. Mr. Nenkov, you have approached me directly to tell you something nice, done with the 500 million dollars of the Oresharski government's programme. I'll give you an example from Stara Zagora, 4.5 million for a park that all Stara Zagoras are satisfied with. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If Oresharski goes to Stara Zagora, they'll carry him in their arms. At the same time, Mr. Nenkov, I'll tell you about the photos you showed. I'm sorry, and I apologize for yelling at you. I'm sorry I didn't prepare to show you the picture, but they also gave it to you on TV two days ago from Stara Zagora. This is not the only case in Stara Zagora, Mr. Nenkov. Stop talking and insinuate people here that BSP is almost against the Sanitation Program.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u106	That's what you talked about during the campaign.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u107	We're against the way you do, Mr. Nenkov, this program. The way you're doing this program is not right. And you understand that, but you're stubborn and you won't fix it. Otherwise, people like the program. How come they don't like something they give you for free?! Just do it right. You're putting billions into it. Two billion. These two billion at least spend it somehow with the thought of helping people, not then to go and fix it. That's what I have to tell you. Don't put a political element in the whole thing. The program will go forward, it's clear. As long as you manage, there will be programs like this. Only give the opposition together to make the program work normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u108	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. We are proceeding with the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have challenged this debate because a few things have become clear from Minister Nenkov's response. The Bank for Development has concluded 2022 contracts, which, on the basis of current prices, means that they commit resources to 2 billion. lv. From your information, Mr. Minister, provided here in the Chamber, it is clear that we have 4829 requests approved for funding. Of these, 4739 are signed contracts between municipalities and associations of owners, and the number of financial applications submitted is 5393. Obviously, we have a lack of commitment between the desire to participate in the Programme and the financial resources voted out so far. We have challenged this question, and I hope that today we will be useful to the Bulgarian citizens in order to get answers to the questions... how and in what way do you intend to continue this Programme? How and from where will this financial resource be provided? Will changes be introduced in the rules for funding the programme? In some of your speeches, Mr. Minister, you have announced a desire for the owners to participate in the Programme. I think today these questions should be answered. The continuation of the Programme itself will make no sense if we do not answer the other question "Do we achieve the objectives set out in the Programme? This is the second point of our Project for a solution that we have proposed. For people, perhaps one of the most important issues that needs to be clarified is how and how to control the national resource involved with this Programme, as it is significant. Mr. Minister, perhaps we should start with clear answers to a few questions. I'll try to put some of them in. How did it come to the fact that the very reference values that your Ministry has defined have changed three times from BGN 348? of sq. M with DSS in October 2015 on 192 in January 2016, up to BGN 172 of sq. in October 2016? Mr. Minister, we have two differences from the initial limit values to those on which the Programme is currently working. I can give many examples, and my colleagues will announce them shortly. Perhaps such an example is from the capital of the Sanitation. There in the square. Elenovo, block 210, with 3869 sq. The built-up area is implemented for 721 963 BGN. That's 186 BGN. of sq. The neighbor's block in the same neighborhood. 207, 3807 sq. m built-up area, which is exactly the same, costs BGN 957 952 or BGN 251. of sq. m. The difference is 35% or 236 thousand. lv. With such a drastic example, we can not ask the question: where did this difference go and who is responsible, Minister, for these types of cases? It's not a one-time thing. You in the Ministry should have that kind of information on the basis of the contracts concluded. In a nutshell, the current implementation of the Programme clearly states the following things: lack of control mechanisms and lack of clearly defined responsibilities throughout the process between all institutions involved in this. This has led to a number of cases, and you know them, to finance activities that are not eligible for the Programme, to finance activities that even exceed the reference values of the Programme. All this reflects in the implementation of the blocks, which are the subject of numerous complaints for poor performance of the work. There is no physical control mechanism on site to verify the quantity and quality of the works performed before they are paid out. And the big question that stands in the debate today, Minister, is: what measures will you take to improve the management of the Programme from now on? Finally, allow me to give a recommendation. Please let the Ministry you run have the same arsin to the municipalities it checks out. I would like to see the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to check the municipalities in Blagoevgrad, Plovdiv, Burgas, Haskovo, Stara Zagora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u110	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Mr. Minister, you can answer after any speech or finally take attitude. As you wish. All right, report when you wish to take an attitude. We are continuing the debate. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We have heard many examples, and we have seen some in the media about poor renovations. This is publicly available information, but I dare say not the most disturbing one, because this is only the result of the problem, not its reason, the result, I dare say, from a questionable policy. Doubtful, first of all, because a right-wing party that correctly defines infrastructure and highways as a priority, but instead of making these highways and infrastructure, first of all, sanirir. I wonder what's causing this. I reached two conclusions, which may be unpleasant, but before I began my thesis, this doubt and facts reflected by leading Bulgarian media such as Nova TV and so on. Colleagues, I say that the renovation benefits not only those living in the blocks, not only the Bulgarian economy, but also you, colleagues from GERB. There are many such specific data.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u112	Say it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u113	I would like to remind you of an article from "Bivol" which says: "Zet as honey, for 100 million." lv. It claims that a GERB MP, his first cousin and her husband, are in the top three of the sanitization and have sanitized for 100 million. lv.! This cousin's husband is a municipal councillor from GERB. Do you know who's building surveillance on the projects? The mother and father of the MP. Do you notice what Sicilian script, what family idyll is forming?! I dare say, colleagues, coincidence in Bulgaria for 100 million. lv. I won't! That's what gives me these doubts. I can give an example from the area in which I am elected, Veliko Tarnovo, ul. Dimitar Buynozov. There was a block that was poorly sanitized, but measures were taken not after the complaints of the citizens, but after the intervention of the Lords on the air. Is this the right attitude to be taken after the intervention of the Lords on the air?! Colleagues, I would like to talk to you about your motto. It's very good. The results are really visible, visible to all of us! Pay attention to them. Look at them and take action! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u114	Thank you. For a personal explanation, I give the floor to Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Bojankov, as I recall, I would love to hear you say that you mean me too, so that I can judge you for what you said, because it was good to check the data and circumstances. If you had done so, you would have seen that there is a MP in your group, who himself has a contract. Not his brother-in-law, not his mother and all that. Not for 10,000. lv. For millions of dollars. If you had done your job, you would have checked that the prices that your MP has offered are probably higher than the prices that your companies have offered. If you had tried to check, you would have seen that in Haskovo of 70 contracts signed first, the average price of renovation is one of the lowest in the whole country, and secondly this company, which you are referring to, has participated in a consortium with other companies and has won only two of the 70 blocks we are talking about. So by throwing mud at colleagues, I understand that you are a new MP, but the MPs for their words must be responsible. [[Applause from GERB Group.]] So I will protect my name, and you will answer to justice for the slanders you have made from this tribune. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u116	Come in for the procedure, Mr. Kutev. Let it be just for the procedure, because I already have another taste in the debate. We're talking politics here.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u117	Mr. Chairman, I won't try to lower the debate at least. The point is, however, that you were not entitled to give this personal explanation, because the Rules have a very clear thesis of when personal explanations are given. They are given when the people's representative and, by the way, we very much insisted that a change should enter into the new Rules, in which it should not be said to be mentioned by name and to be damaged, but to be mentioned by name or to be broken. And you turned it down? You, the majority of GERB, refused this amendment in the Rules of Procedure. By virtue of the current Rules of Procedure, you have no right to give the floor to Mr. Dobrev, despite the fact that he is clearly recognized in some 100 million. By the way, there aren't many people who hear 100 million, they recognize each other. [[Applause from the group of BSP for Bulgaria.]] But no matter that it is recognized in them, you have no basis under the Rules that you have defended, and according to the changes that we have proposed, and you have not accepted, to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u118	Yes, thank you. I will respect this reading of the Rules, even though I share your view when someone is identified flawlessly and it is, of course, about him in one statement, he has the right to defend himself. Yeah, that's the wider understanding. Perhaps it does not need a formal change in the Rules, but this is another matter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! From the high tribune of the National Assembly, I will introduce you today to the so-called capital of the Sanitation House of Blagoevgrad. However, the facade of this sanitization is cracking. Why, he's asking himself? The National Energy Efficiency Programme has been corrupted in several directions. This conclusion is drawn from the numerous infringements of a different nature identified to date. There are drastic price distortions offered by companies that have concluded contracts for renovation of buildings. It is a mass practice that companies which, according to documents, have won public procurement with the municipality, pass on their contracts to second or third companies. More and more are the complaints of poor sanitization. Last but not least, I also refer to the lack of labour discipline, respect for labour law and safe working conditions. The highest price for renovation of buildings is in Velingrad - 288 BGN. per square meter and the lowest is in Kyustendil - 116 BGN. This is from an M.R.I.D. reference. Construction organisations point out that rough construction of buildings is cheaper than their renovation itself, which is absurd. You guys make your own decisions. Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to return you back to the capital of the Sanitation. The Energy Efficiency Programme in Blagoevgrad has not paid off more than 38 million. lv. at the end of February and the beginning of March. At the beginning of February there are 141 financial contracts and applications of citizens to the same period are 327. In the period were completed 109 projects.. mostly panel blocks in.. Elenovo, From published on the site of the municipality of Blagoevgrad contracts you can see the following because here we started showing pictures, let me show some [[shows photos]] : block, sanitized on Street. 16 Shishman, which is 14 floors with an area of 4,000. 525 sq. M. Sanitation is worth 1 million. 256 thousand. 911 BGN. Here's the photo of the block. [[shows photos]] Everyone make sure, or BGN 278. per square meter. I want you to keep an eye on: block 55, district "West" which is on 15 floors, quarter 5 thousand. 423 sq. M was sanitized for 776 thousand. lv. The figures show an average price per square meter of BGN 143. [[shows photos]] . Here's the block, let's show them to each other. No 2 Maritsa Street, 14-storey, Plovdiv, Plovdiv, 5 891 sq. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 309 thousand. BGN, average price here comes out BGN 223. per square meter [[shows photo]] . And block, here we come to the word, on Street. No 1 in Blagoevgrad, known as "Lira" block. 527 sq. m, also on 15 floors the sanitization cost 618 thousand. lv. Or 112 leva. for a square meter, fellow Members. So we're going from 278 to 112 leva. for identical buildings. The figures show themselves that the difference in the prices of different companies is drastic. That's the main question. How do identical buildings with identical CPCs form and pay a different price? From the data in the technical passports of the buildings and the documents of their investigation, these differences in the units indicated by me in Blagoevgrad the prices of the sanitization are shockingly different. So once again I ask: how is this price difference formed for the execution of identical buildings? In the public domain it is not for a reason that this is the result of corrupt practices, or poor materials put in by the companies performers under the National Program. Only in Blagoevgrad there are already dozens of complaints about the quality of the work of the contractors companies, I will still serve with photos to be more convincing [[shows photos]] . One of the first blocks that leaked was bl. 53, Western district, and only two months after the renovation - problem with the roof [[shows photos]] . There he is. There are also complaints under the National Program in bl. "Lira" "Bozdaevgrad," on the street "Lira" ..brothers Miladinov....under ♪ ♪ ♪ Isolating me ♪ ♪ Is that what [[shows photos]] . There he is. A complaint was entered by the residents on Street. Jane Sandanski, bl. 1, vc. "B', Strumsko district "Strumsko's foreheads of the windows are only spackled without putting on insulating materials [[shows photos]] . There's a complaint from Bl. 7, Strumsko district. That's where the roof went. I'm showing it. [[shows photos]] . There are also poor renovations in the district of Elenovo. Complaints are about uninstalled dowels after insulation, application of a paddle without a net, insulation is 5 cm thick, something that is unacceptable [[shows photos]] . Complaints from co-operators in bl. 67, "Elenovo." There people say the insulation is placed at minus temperatures and is already compromised. [[shows photos]] . Appeals................................................................................. The roof also leaked and flooded people's homes. There's a lot of them. I can still spell, but don't let me bore you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u120	Show me some more pictures. [[from place]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u121	I'll show you another picture, don't worry. A total of 66 violations detected by 15 completed checks. 10 infringement acts have been carried out, 3 of which are to stop the work on the skeleton of persons employed under a contract of employment. Unfortunately, the labour inspectors in Blagoevgrad neglect the checks regarding the violations of the safe work of the sites which are sanitized. The data shows that workers are being sanctioned without employment contracts. The figures also show that sanctioned employers are few, as programme contractors employ mass illegal workers. Here just now I heard that labor and so on is mainly of Roma origin. There are whole brigades that have no working relationship with the companies in question. It is no accident that I raise this question, because only days ago in Blagoevgrad there was an accident which, thanks to God and chance, did not lead to fatal consequences. The people in this block were without employment contracts. The Labour Inspectorate found it. Here's the block, the collapsed scaffolding and the damage done. [[Shows photos.]] Skeleton fell from the 13th floor. Inspectors from the Regional Labour Inspectorate and the construction department of the municipality should oblige the performers of the energy program to use only lifters, as is the requirement for high buildings in the future. However, businessmen save money because renting a lift for a month is over 3 000 BGN. Let the minister answer me, I very much respectfully ask him: how and how are the gaps in the renovation of buildings monitored and sanctioned? Is it right for companies to save money for safety and quality, although they have received colossal amounts? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] How many checks have been carried out in recent months? How many companies have suffered the appropriate sanctions? How many complaints have been filed by residents in residential buildings? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Does the MPRB know that in Blagoevgrad, for example, half of the municipal councillors sanitize sites?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u122	Mr. Boshkov, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u123	All these violations, both labor and financial, are from the lack of control at different levels, I would like to stress it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u124	Mr. Boshkov, we heard your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u125	Dear colleagues of GERB, I would like to highlight something. [[Relations regarding the overdue time.]] BSP is not against sanitization. The practices you use...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u126	Time's up. [[National Representative Nikolay Boshkov continues to speak with microphones off.]] Your questions have been answered. Take your seat. With this statement, the parliamentary group's time has passed. [[Applause from GERB.]] Are there any other MPs? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! There is no doubt that the program for energy efficiency of multi-family residential buildings is a valuable program that offers a complex solution for renovation of the residential fund in Bulgaria. I will start with the benefits of this Programme because I see that you have focused on searching for defects and suggesting to the Bulgarian citizens that this Programme is corrupted and has only defects. Let's say some of the benefits. Given the scale of the Programme, there is the creation of huge employment, an increase in financial revenues both in the construction sector and in relation to manufacturers of construction materials, engineering and architectural, design companies, transport industry, warehouses, logistics centers. This directly concerns all external contractors employed under the programme as well as the subcontractors and related business types, employees, employees, as a result of which, in whole regions where large-scale construction began, people felt not only those who received renovations, but also the others employed in this process felt the economic effect of this Programme. In whole regions we have a reduction in unemployment from this Programme. We need to take into account the macroeconomic effect that is of particular importance to the state. Let's not forget the social impact. In residential buildings, some of which are already running out of service, live people who mostly have low social status, use this Programme, and with its implementation help socially weak, disadvantaged people. In short, the benefits of this programme: increased standard of living, reduced end-use, increased public confidence in the Bulgarian institutions, because people, despite your speaking, believed this Programme; improved environment, lower greenhouse gas levels; reduced energy poverty; improved urban environment; new architectural image of renovated buildings and inter-block spaces; increased economic growth. The programme has proven to be an extremely good way to renovate the housing fund. The main problems that you've been dealing with. Yes, during construction, honourable Members, which is a technological process, can always be admitted gaps, can lead to temporary problematic situations with homeowners. Each of us has hired masters for certain activities at home. I am convinced that there is no way that 100% of you can declare that the repairs have been completed perfectly and that there have been no problems with implementation. In such a large-scale construction, which is carried out under this Programme, there will be no signal and complaints for improperly implemented activities. It is important to have a timely reaction by the municipalities, by the ministry, by the performers, which is actually a reality and is happening at the moment. The removal of faults in construction is entirely at the expense of the contractor both during its execution and within the warranty period, which I remind you, under the Construction Act of the territory is five years. Dear colleagues, the problems during construction have no color. In the left part of the hall they gave examples with blocks of not coincidentally, completely trendy, from a district town, which is run by a mayor of the Political Party GERB. The problems in construction have no color and I will tell you that a block in Mezdra, where the mayor is from BSP, takes place a second time. If you think it's right for party plants to wave the problems of construction and to deal with signals and complaints, then I suggest you get on the roof of the building in Mezdra today and solve the problem. [[Applause from GERB.]] However, there are hundreds and thousands of good examples, but you do not deal with it. You're trying to overexpose single, negative situations like fallen scaffolding, leaking rooftops. That's how you got stuck in your course against this program, and that's how you're trying to reheat this meal, by the way, us and during the election campaign we've explained the benefits of this Programme. It is unique, created it GERB. It has reached hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens directly, improves their living conditions, saves them heating costs and we work in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. BSP looks a little like the sour grape fable. Your position, colleagues, on the Sanitation Program is so vague that the question is clear: are you standing against the Program, as you announced earlier, or against the fact that GERB is working on this Programme, introducing this program and managing it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u128	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. Anyone else willing to take part in the debate? Here you are, Mr. Ramadan. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, this is the first time I've seen you in this place. You look good.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u130	That's the fourth time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u131	At least I can see you now. Honourable Members, the topic that is being discussed today is good for policy, and indeed this tribune has been created to conduct policy. But as if I could not accept from those who spoke before us that almost, if it was not GERB, the program for renovation and energy efficiency would not be opened. It is very unserious that GERB found the wheel or the hot water. Somehow it's not serious. Many times we have spoken from this tribune about the National Energy Efficiency Programme. You know that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms for many years are the people we insist on. Since its very creation our doubts that it will be corrupted, as if by every day they are confirmed. Once again I say to you, we welcome you and I believe that today the topic is not necessary is the Energy Efficiency Programme, but what needs to be done further in order to continue such programmes in order to move towards the renovation of single-family housing, of course, what the Movement for Rights and Freedoms insists on. Because, colleagues, the renovation of multifamily homes provides conditions and opportunities only to people who live in large cities. Here I will remind you that when the last 1 billion was confirmed it was accepted by GERB our proposal that this Programme will grow, except as a program for multifamily and a program for the renovation of single family homes. We insist on this Programme because the free giving of funds only to those who live in the cities and for one reason or another, the colleague before me said that they used even during the elections to campaign people, that, behold, they spend money and vote for them, as if somehow not acceptable to those who live in the villages. Is Energy Efficiency Needed? Dear colleagues, in 2008, the dispute was a long time. The decision was then adopted not to be in the Ministry of Energy but to transfer it to the Ministry of Regional Development. Why, Mr. Secretary? I'll tell you why. Because the criteria for this Programme were not yet adopted in the first place exactly as the European criteria adopted, because the renovation of a residential building included certain criteria. The main criteria for the program being in this Ministry were to investigate the building's structural foundations, to accept shifting of all communications at the entrance of homes, understand the heat supply, electricity, water, so that the commercial appliances could be at the entrance of each dwelling. This is the sanitization, Minister. Otherwise, anything else, from the point of view of putting the building in any isolation, I exclude the petty attacks that have taken place, because it is not the minister's job, it is not the Ministry's work, but the respective audit firms, the supervision, let them mind their own business there. Of course, with 2 billion spent, there'll probably be some gaps somewhere, hopefully no more. You have corrupted the need for this Programme because you have changed the criteria and I will then propose in this decision and an editorial amendment. The question arises, my fellow Members, are the criteria met, are the criteria clear, have the objectives been met? Because the figures they use here that are already saved about 130 or 150 million.. we will find out how much they are saved, Mr. Nenkov, when we accept any solution. Because of the two solutions proposed here, I welcome both. Because the decision offered by the BSP, they want in a very short time this information, which the minister has, to be made public through the MPs and through the media, is June 30, and you want September month. You must have your reasons. As soon as it started with the program, we said you'd miss control. Because the audits that were mandatory, if you do the control, you will see that not in each building these audits have been done and those criteria are met that are necessary to achieve the ultimate energy efficiency target. If you take an audit, you will see that within one or two years after the audit you need to determine how reduced the energy consumption or heat in this building is, as the first buildings that have been sanitized are already one year old and I am convinced that you will have the relevant data to provide them to us. However, the doubt that one building is sanitized for BGN 345 and the second building for BGN 115... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Is the time over, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u132	Yes, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u133	Then for a few seconds to tell you that in the decision of the BSP or yours, at the first point I propose that information be presented to the National Assembly by 15 July on the fulfilment of the criteria and objectives achieved by the Programme and the effect of the savings of energy costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u134	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Is there anyone who wishes for other speeches in the course of the debate? If there isn't, Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to take an attitude. [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, I warned him at first. [[Noise and lines.]] He's about to speak, so I invited him, of course. We have specified this procedure. The minister has not taken advantage so far, now said a wish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u135	Yes, thank you. Mr. President, honourable Members, if the debates continue, I will take a position at the end, but because there have been several questions that have been asked, and I think it is right that I should now be treated as Minister of Regional Development and Public Works on the debate that has been going on so far. Dear Members of Parliament, the stands are indeed high. It is extremely important that correctness, and that education and morality require it when spoken out of this high tribune, at least not to lie. I use the word "liar," I will tell which lies were told in today's debate by this high tribune. And with regard to manipulations, regarding speculation, it is now an assessment of every MP or member of the executive body how it will serve them as information. It is a fact that many of the things that colleagues from the left, the honourable MPs from the group of BSP for Bulgaria, and colleagues from GERB mentioned as problems in the implementation of the Programme, such as a debate about its future, I will say what measures we have taken are really clear and I have no contradictions here. Mr. Genov mentioned that the scope of eligible activities has now decreased. On the contrary, there is nothing like it, because the activities described in the Programme are so generally described and I cannot understand the logic here when we comment on a question with unacceptable activities. I would like, a fellow Member of the speakers, if you have a corresponding and prepared opinion on the issue, an opinion, to say which are the ineligible activities which are included, respectively, in specific projects for renovation of residential buildings under this programme. Since, you know, the methodical instructions in this part are so generally defined that they give the basis for even a call system if it is energy efficient and leads to energy savings in the relevant entrance, in the multi-family residential building, to be eligible as long as it is prescribed by the energy audit. Even sometimes the vertical planning, when it undermines the foundations of the building and strengthens the building itself and the reconstruction of the vertical planning itself, is prescribed in the constructive opinion as a necessary measure, it is also permissible activity, as in a large part of the signals you mention it is the fact that these are referred to as inadmissible activities, but they are not inadmissible if they are prescribed or mentioned in both investigations. Thirdly, I would like to mention the fact that also in municipal administrations, this is also the stage of communication of correspondence between municipal and regional administrations, and the Ministry. Signals are coming in, which is the most normal thing to get signals at performance stage. It is a lie that the block in Stara Zagora is filled, finished with energy-saving measures, with repair activities. On the contrary, in the process of renovation, of construction and repair activities, indeed the technological process and error of the builder is, this established our verification and verification of the municipality that the methodological circumstances were not provided, the roof was covered respectively, but the control mechanisms that we have created give us a guarantee that, on the basis of the contractual relations between municipal administrations and the builders, these costs for removing the defects, the vices during the construction, remain at the expense of the builders. Such are the results of the checks that we have undertaken and respectively the commitments made by local authorities and the builders companies. Regarding reference prices for differences in individual buildings, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, people who deal with construction processes, and the subject matter, know that it is a bit difficult, I would say, figuratively, comparing peppers to tomatoes. We have the same squares of individual buildings, but we have a different set of activities that take place in individual buildings. We have buildings, I will tell you the exact number, as Mr. Atalay has put the topic of constructive building strengthening, not the renovation itself, that is, activities that are directed directly towards energy efficiency when we have constructive reinforcement when we have the replacement of railings on the terraces as potentially dangerous for both living and passing, we have blocks that have replaced energy sources and systems. 30% of these blocks, where construction and repair activities are currently being carried out, replace energy and heating systems respectively, in others we have replacement of new protective installations. I mentioned water and heat grates again. In some, of course, we only have activities in pure energy efficiency, windowing and thermal insulation. We could hardly compare a block on which the energy audit and project has prescribed only and only the dismantling and installation of new windows and the installation of thermal insulation, with a block that we strengthen constructively, on which we waterproof roof, eligible activities under the program, of course, on which a protective installation is placed, repair staircase cells and a number of other activities, even glazed terraces, dismantled and fitted air conditioners, staircase cells, completely renovate electrical installations and replace them, compare it as a specific price. They are not comparable as an activity to compare them as prices per square meter. Of course, people with engineering education from you know that it is not the same to sanitize a five-storey and 25-story block and as expenses to the builder, as norms, and fire drills, and not only do the high blocks have significantly greater financial resources for correspondingly uniform activities. Apart from that, I mentioned constructive measures. We are currently comparing the completed 393 buildings, of which with constructive measures are almost 50% of them 166. Buildings under construction are 579, at the moment again almost 50%. 245 buildings, even 50%, are with measures that concern constructive reinforcement in them, being replacement of lower panels, constructive measures by corresponding reinforcement of roof structures, terraces and everything is attributed to the constructive audits. Some of the criticisms Mr. Genov made related to the vicious model of implementation of the Programme and that it reaches to a very small number within this range of Bulgarian citizens. For these two billion contracts, which the state has undertaken as a financial commitment after the conclusion of a tripartite agreement between the Bulgarian Development Bank, regional administrations and municipal administrations, then the financial commitment of the state is created for these 2022 buildings with a financial resource. Rest assured, the financial resources for them are provided. We have two-and-a-half more buildings, this is only one plus for the future implementation of this Programme and new ones that will be financed either by the National Budget or by the European Funds, as you know that we support the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth." Measures are also financed to improve the energy performance of both public and private buildings. Small buildings are also eligible there as long as they are multifamily, i.e. with more than two households living in them. One of the criticisms was a lack of competition. I think we got a good debate between the individual companies. You know that we have laid down in the technical guidelines a requirement in specific municipalities that award public procurement in order to have maximum transparency and to have maximum diversification of potential contractors when uniting buildings with designed and technical ones, that a participant can apply for a separate position in a public procurement contract. This approach, I think, has led to a great diversification of almost 1987 buildings which are currently either in the process of renovation or with completed construction and repair activities. We have almost 600 separate counterparties, separate construction companies that perform activities on them. Yes, in some municipalities, not to quote them, there is a cluster perhaps, of companies, a smaller competitive environment, not to give examples, they are both red and with mayors of the Political Party GERB. Mr. Genov laughs, but Asenovgrad is one of them, for example. Some are with mayors of GERB, some are independent, where we have two or three companies from 20 sanitizing buildings, which is also very normal. The remaining 17-18 are respectively sanitized by others.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u136	Dear Minister, I ask you to focus on completion!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u137	Yes, yes, I'll be done, Mr. Chairman, two more minutes. Invented name When we comment on the control mechanisms and functions, you know, the instructions are detailed and all the examples that you have given, MRRB neither is the Labour Inspection to comment on topics related to the competences of other departments, the DNCC performs control and adequate, both by the supervisory companies, and by the legal process of the construction process. Mr. Boychev urged us to be accurate and vexed in the checks of all municipalities and in Pernik we carried out checks, both in Mezdra and in Bobov dol, yesterday and in Samokov. There was the most fragile case - six buildings started construction without building papers, no construction site. That's right, Mr. Boychev, no construction site, no certificates, order books, the relevant acts are drawn up, the Mezdra inspection also identified similar cases, we respond and respond to all signals. From this high tribune I would allow myself to conclude, perhaps I would take an attitude perhaps finally again, to address the Bulgarian citizens, if there really are cases of dishonest builders, I think that this is a transcending process, you know, there are mechanisms on the program, just give appropriate signals to our office. Not only have we reacted to all of them, even the opposite, the necessary actions have been taken and all the deficiencies related to the implementation, I said, and just now, I will repeat myself, remain and will remain at the expense of dishonest builders when this is found. Regarding the control functions of the construction itself, once we have construction supervision, this is a function for the buildings you mentioned in Blagoevgrad, namely the control of construction supervision. The DNCC checks the construction supervision respectively when we have detected violations or signals of such, the copyright supervision of a designer, second place, and we have introduced the props institute of investor control, which, you know, is not mandatory under the Law for a device in the territory, but it also includes representatives of the owners' associations themselves to ensure to the maximum extent the quality of performance. What better guarantee for the quality performance of the construction could there be than that the owner of an apartment, resident or authorized by the association of owners representatives to participate as a control mechanism. We also have a documentary level of control by the Bulgarian Development Bank, respectively I mentioned the National Building Control Directorate and our office on specific signals and cases. The district administrations shall also carry out control during construction and during the adoption and transmission of construction repairs by act 15 and model act 16. In my next speech, I will further develop more of the things for which we have been criticised as weak practices, perhaps weak points of the Programme, and I will also say what are the steps we propose to take from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u138	Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! We're having a debate today, and we've got a conflict of ideas. But, of course, the best idea is those who can realize it and those who have proven that they can do it. This is the political party GERB and the government of Boyko Borisov. Today we have heard a confession from the left that this Programme is good and it must continue. We need to increase control. Yes, indeed, perhaps you're referring to those mayors of yours who had the opportunity to take advantage of this program. I don't know if you heard what Minister Nankov said about a mayor who did a renovation without building papers?! You can only do this! [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]] What you gave as figures is a difference in the volume of external activities, as they appear in the photos you showed. However, there are certain volumes of activities that are specific, and for each building there is a corresponding technical audit and you should know it very well. I would still like to thank those worthy mayors of the BSP who have taken advantage of the Programme. During meetings, when I visited the Pleven multi-mandated constituency in Levski Municipality, when together we found the sanitized block, then the mayor, who was elected by BSP and residents there, said that this is the only program that has directly reached people in these 27 years. [[Applause from GERB.]] Of course, when we talk about the money of the Bulgarian taxpayer, we should say how they are spent. By the way, it's nice to have such debates in parliament, because that's when the truth comes out. Because GERB started implementing the Programme when we knew that we had the opportunity with the revenue agencies, which did their work as well as what had as a greater collection, enabled the Bulgarian government, led by Boyko Borisov, to launch this Programme. But the program, notice, ladies and gentlemen, is launched not at the expense of creating a deficit, but is launched and is realized at the expense of good collection and proper spending of the money of the Bulgarian taxpayer. I will give an example, and not just one, but a few, because we know that when he managed BSP until 2009, for 80 milligrams for Tsankov Stone the Bulgarian taxpayer paid 1 billion. lv. Tell me what the effect of this 1 billion is. BGN, which was spent to achieve an effect for 80 milligrams? Just to tell you that the renovation program for the winter months has a effect of 500 milligrams, which means that the Bulgarian taxpayer has received a service that we have provided it to him because our goal is always to take care of people and make policies that reach them. Your goal is different because after every single government of yours, you leave a deficit. I can say that after Oresharski's term of office, you left a 5% deficit. Just to say that for last year the country ended up with an excess and this enabled us to actually continue this Programme and we to make as election promises in meetings we made for the upcoming parliamentary elections. Since you said and gave for example Stara Zagora, the park paid under the Oresharski cabinet programme, I can say that this is the practice of making pompous speeches, but not being financially secured. Just to let you know that in advance for that 4 million. BGN, which you spoke of, has been paid 1 million. 200,000. lv. Yes, indeed in Oresharski's office, but the rest up to 4 million. BGN, namely 2 million $800,000. lv. are paid by the cabinet Borisov because we know that when a policy has to reach people, we have to complete it. But let us remember when we started the first management term, then the state fell into a situation where it had to pay off signed contracts that were not financially secured. Let me not remind some MPs who were previously mayors and you gave them as a benchmark in the local government, they left over 20 million. lv. responsibilities of municipalities and this money at the moment we manage to melt them so that they can become up to 5 million BGN. But these are policies that we make at the expense of your wrong decisions that you've made all these years when you ran. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament on the left, let us support what is good for Bulgarian citizens. Because we know how you sabotaged this program at the beginning, playing with people's fears and saying they'd take away their homes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u140	Who said that? Who said that?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u141	Your representatives, your representatives!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u142	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u143	Your representatives who live in these blocks. But people found out what it was about. And for the fellow MP from Blagoevgrad, I would like to tell him the following. Let all other municipalities become with this image and with this environment for living with what the municipality of Blagoevgrad has achieved. [[Applause from GERB.]] Because all the blocks we see in Blagoevgrad when we travel along the highway to Blagoevgrad, which was also completed in Borisov's management mandate, we have the opportunity to actually create better living conditions, but also to have a better pleasant view for those who pass past these cities. Therefore, dear Members of Parliament, once again you want to impress the public on what you have done or what you have meant, but this time you have shown that you are not prepared. You have absolutely no opportunity to give a meaningful answer to all the questions that we have asked in these debates and on the topic of.......Sanning.............................. I would like to thank Minister Nankov for his calmness and the way he answers you, because there are few cases in which you are deliberately seeking provocation, but I am convinced that we have gathered in the Forty-fourth Parliament if we can do some work. That's our goal. If you want to participate in this process, I think we can do it together. We're outstretched. I'm gonna stop here because I'm pretty sure this debate is over. Each of the parliamentary groups spends its time on this debate. I think the most important thing is to move on to the vote. Of course, we will adopt the most sensible and right decision, which was presented by the parliamentary group of GERB. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u144	A declaration on behalf of a group!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u145	After we vote, you'll make a statement. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u146	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u147	The project.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, in the spirit and in my speech at the beginning, the debate really made sense to show the effects and positives of this Programme and to really be able to in the future... [[(BSP comments for Bulgaria: "Come on! " Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come ……]] ...to discuss the future of this Programme and its effects and benefits. In this regard, I am still going to make a procedural proposal on our Decision Project......................................................................................... 2, for greater accuracy, as we have set a deadline by the middle of next month for concreteness we have said this deadline to be by 15 July. Here's the deal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u151	Instead of July 31, it's July 15th.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u152	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u153	It remains: "July 31,...... in the next sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u155	The debate is closed. I put to the vote the Draft Decision on the Discussions on Question, No 754-05-9, of 16 May 2017, by the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev and Manol Genov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on the policy of MRDPD for the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for Multifamily Buildings. The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall, by 30 June 2017, provide the National Assembly with an analysis of the current state of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multi-family residential buildings, expenditures of financial resources and the financial commitments made on the contracts concluded so far. 2. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall, by 30 June 2017, provide the National Assembly with information on the objectives of the Programme and the effect of the savings on energy. 3. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall submit to the National Assembly a proposal for the future implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings and its financial security by 30 June 2017. Please vote. [[Reply from MP Ramadan Atalay.]] Yours is to the second, I cannot find a place for him in this draft decision of your proposal. [[SPEAKING SPANISH]] . Cancel the vote. [[National Representative Ramadan Atalay and Chairman Dimitar Glauchev have a supplementary conversation.]] There is an editorial proposal from the National Representative Ramadan Atalay to be added to the first point: the criteria adopted and the objectives achieved. Please vote on the proposal of MP Ramadan Atalay. [[Noise and lines.]] He proposed that both should be included, so we vote it to the first point and precisely the expression presented by the parliamentary tribune............................................................................................. Vote 173 MPs: 143, against 20, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. And now I am voting on the entire draft decision as I have presented it to you, along with the editorial proposal that you have just accepted in this House. Please vote. I put to the vote the first Bill of colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria with the editorial proposal that you adopted. Vote 177 MPs: 78, against 25, abstention 74. The draft decision has not been adopted. I offer to your attention the Draft Decision on Debates, No 754-05-9, of 16 May 2017 by the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev and Manol Genov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works on the policy of the Ministry for the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall, by 15 July 2017, provide the National Assembly with information on the objectives of the Programme and the effect of the saved energy costs. Here we have a proposal from the National Representative Ramadan Atalay, who proposes that after the statement of............................................................................................... Please vote on the proposal made by MP Ramadan Atalay. Vote 179 MPs: 164 against 11, abstention 4. The proposal of the MP Ramadan Atalay has been accepted. The second point of the project reads: "2." The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall provide the National Assembly with information on the current state of the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multifamily Buildings, the funds spent and the value of the contracts concluded so far and shall be made available by 31 July 2017. There is a proposal from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov the expression "to date" contracts, in the last sentence the word "to date" to be replaced by "today" by "the 15th of July 2017." Please vote on the proposal made by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. They voted 176 MPs: 116, against 6, abstention 54. The motion is accepted. Point 3 of the Project Decision states: "3." The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall submit to the National Assembly by 15 September 2017 a proposal for the future vision of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings and its financial support. We are voting on the project in its entirety, together with the two proposals just adopted, made at point one by the National Representative Ramadan Atalay, on point two by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. Please vote. Vote 177 MPs: 166 against 1, abstention 10. The draft decision has been adopted. We continue with a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Then we continue with the answers of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u156	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My declaration was provoked by Mr. Tsvetanov's statement. I am addressing the leaders of GERB and the United Patriarchs. Colleagues, you've imposed a strange style in this Parliament from the very beginning: in each speech you divide into two. In the first part... [[National representatives of GERB stand up, others leave the room. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u157	Mrs. Ninova, I'm sorry. Please, fellow Members, who will remain in the Chamber, take their place, who will leave, make it more swift, so that we can continue our work in a normal environment. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u158	In the first part of each of your speeches you always find reason and reason to attack BSP, to stick labels, even extreme and unacceptable to modern democracy. In the second part you say: "Come and work together for Bulgaria! " Get this split personality, if that's okay. We are aware of our position. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We are opposition and alternative. We're going to respond categorically to any unfounded attack and lie. And I will wish you the results of the government in 2009. Both as surplus and as foreign investments, and stop lying to the Bulgarian people that when the Socialists rule, the state goes bankrupt. Get a reference for those years. Cardio wish to achieve these results in your management! Returning the conversation to the past shows only the idealess frustration of the future. We won't be involved in this. However, I will pay attention to our viewers and listeners for the future that you outline for them. You keep saying, "You're doing something, and then we and Borisov are paying it, you're paying pensions, now you're paying other things. Dear colleagues, you do not pay them, nor does Mr. Borisov bring them from Bankya. This is the money of the Bulgarian people and the pensions you receive and the sanitization you offer them in this quality. You take from their pocket, not from yours, to say, "We pay for it."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u159	And the CCB we paid for. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u160	He and the surplus belong to the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u161	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u162	We know that. Today I appeal to the Bulgarian people to know this. Dear Bulgarian citizens, GERB's previous term left you a 10 billion loan! You're starting to know that again! Since yesterday, the government has decided to take its first loan for this mandate of 200 million. Not only are you paying all their deals with your money, but you will also pay the debts that your previous office left you and which start this term! It started over with 200 million. They've got six billion to take on a program they've voted on. Probably towards the end of their mandate, whenever he is, you Bulgarian citizens will owe each of you a 16-billion-dollar loan accumulated by the government of Boyko Borisov. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) It's a big announcement from the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u163	On behalf of a group, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u164	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our declaration is on the occasion of the 71th anniversary of the tragic events that took place in 1946, the victims of which are the activists and the leaders of IMRO. After the end of World War II in Bulgaria, a geopolitical project is under way to reformulate the Bulgarian nation. In this geopolitical project, built in the couloirs of the Comintern and under the auspices of the Soviet Union, the Bulgarian Workers' Party (communists) plays an active role. On June 5, 1946, a Bulgarian delegation headed by Georgi Dimitrov went to Moscow, where he received instructions to implement the project for the creation of the Balkan Federation, within which a Macedonian national state, including Pirin Macedonia, would be established. As long as the delegation is in Moscow, directives arrive in Sofia to launch persecutions against the leaders and members of IMRO. On the night of 7 versus 8 June 1946 in Sofia and other cities of the country were held militia raids. The same night the People's Militia attempted to arrest a member of the Central Committee of IMRO, the son of the famous Bulgarian officer and hero of the First World War regiment. Drangov. The house still exists at 37 Shishman. People's militia officers are trying to get Kiril Dragov to surrender. They force his mother and father-in-law to talk to him, but for nothing. In the ongoing shooting before he died, Major Kiril Drangov liquidated six militia officers. Dragov's daughter Raina Dragova recalls the meeting the next day with Interior Minister Anton Yugov: Our house was crowded with militiamen and investigators. When they saw us, one of them screamed, "Are these the little fascist puppies?" The mode does not allow any obituary to be published for the hero Dragov. He's only buried by his closest relatives. His wife isn't one of them. She's still in the custody of the People's Militia Directorate. Over 200 IMRO activists were arrested within a few days with the only blame for fighting for the Bulgarian cause in Macedonia. In the period 17 August 24, 1946, 22 IMRO activists were sentenced, two of whom were sentenced to death. The People's Front on 23 August published the prosecutor's indictment, I quote: The defendants are guns of fascism, with which the Fatherland Front fights decisively. The defendants today are the last creations, the last remnants and failures of the reaction of fascism in our country, such as the cannons of a terrorist organization which she had set herself to restore the old regime. It's about time. The organization has always been at the service of Bulgarian fascism, has welcomed and always fought for Great Bulgaria. Most of those arrested in June 1946, Macedonian Bulgarians did not go to trial. Their fate remains unclear to this day, and their graves are without name. Among them is Vladimir Kurtev, who played an active role in the rescue of the Bulgarian Jews in 1943. Therefore in 1997 he was awarded the Order of the Old Mountains and on 5 May 2010 with a decision of the Commission to the State Israeli Institute. We mention these facts about the tragic fate of our ancestors 71 years ago, because today we are reborn again familiar clichés from the time of the end of World War II. Once again, a long denied rhetoric is being taken out, virtual fascism is being promoted again. Once again, spells rise and patriots are branded as heirs and conductors of the moving fascism in Bulgaria. The thesis on the constructive nature of socialism and the role of the Bulgarian Communist Party rises again. [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] Today, the Macedonian issue stands before the threshold of our country, is before us and part of the responsibility for this historic fate, is in the decisions of the Comintern and their implementation by the Bulgarian communists at the end of World War II. [[Applause from the United Patriarchs................................................................................................ A line from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u165	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. We continue with parliamentary control. Please invite Prime Minister Boyko Borisov to the Chamber. [[Relations from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I request order in this Chamber. Mr. Angelov, please. [[Noise and lines.]] Please order in the court! [[Mister President Boyko Borisov enters the Chamber.]] Good afternoon, Prime Minister. Before we go to the answers, let you know that on the balcony we have guests from the Pennishte Sports Club. Svishtov. [[Applause the MPs welcome the guests on the balcony.]] We are going to ask the MP Anton Konstantinov Kutev about the government's personnel policy. You have the floor, dear Mr. Kutev, to develop your questioning, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Honourable Prime Minister, my questioning of Cadre policy is dictated by my firm conviction that Cadre policy expresses the attitude towards power, in the sense that undoubtedly through the personnel they are appointed, at the very least, compliance and implementation of certain policies are sought. It seems to me that it is extremely important what people we put in certain positions, especially in big politics. The choice of a particular person, first of all, always carries a message and, second of all, it is absolutely obvious that there are people who would hardly perform functions that contradict their entire life path. From this point of view, for me, the appointment of ministers or of deputy ministers is not another giving of posts, but is a form of declaration of policies and a form by which we tell our citizens, that is, you say it in this case, what you will do in one or another area of public life. From this point of view, I find some of the appointments that have been made so far puzzling. I will perhaps begin with the appointment of Deputy Minister Krasimir Parvanov only as an example. In no way do I want the names you mentioned or the people I'm talking about to put their expertise into question in general. Most of them do not know them, and I cannot claim that they are or are not specialists in a particular area. The problem in this case with the Deputy Minister of Energy is that one of the organizations of Bulgarian employers defines him as a person of poor reputation, commented dependencies in the energy sector and so on. The same person, in a previous appointment as Deputy Minister, was released by your government with the argument that he had comments on his work relating to the implementation of public procurements for the extension of NEK's network. I repeat, I am not evaluating this man and I am not saying whether he has addictions or not. What I quote are publications that are not my words. What is the message that we are broadcasting here with this assignment? In my opinion, employers' organizations are of no concern to us. Since they are against this appointment and are categorically declaring a position and we are appointing it, for me the political answer here is this. In the same way, the issue of the appointment of Angel Popov is the Deputy Minister of Transport. The alliances of Bulgarian and international carriers are declared against his appointment with various arguments. I don't know what the argument is...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u167	Ten seconds left, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u168	The point is, here the conclusion for me again is that we don't care about the opinion of the industry. In the case of Georg Georgiev at the age of 25, it obviously doesn't matter...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u169	Thank you, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u170	...if you're a specialist or not.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u171	You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u172	Okay, we'll continue after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u173	Just to remind you that the questions concern a common policy. You're getting into the specifics.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u174	I apologize, my question is, it's written: what do you bet on the government's personnel policy, what are the messages you send?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u175	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Prime Minister, you have five minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u176	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kutev! I will take advantage of what Mrs. Nino said if we keep going back and forth, we can also give examples. It can't be constructive. It can't be good. I'm in solidarity with her here. I have a well-written answer, but I will try to explain it to the pό human. In the situation in which we were all after the elections, for us, at least as a party, there was one option to make a government with our fellow Members. We did it. It is good that there are also Mr. Siderov and Valeri Simeonov, Karakachanov is on the border with his Greek colleague. We may have written a program for ten days or looked at how to form the government so that each of our parties would bear their political responsibility and at the same time be able to work in sync. You know from the past that this is extremely difficult to achieve, because if we are all the same parties, then it will be easy to make a coalition - everything will be done in the election program. I'm making a detour. I saw my colleague Tsvetanov. After all, the campaign went through. The less you take offense and the more you try to do something good in the next year, to consolidate efforts, not to wager hatred, will be beneficial for both the government and parliament. Each party presented the ministers first, had debates on them some of the applications were not accepted either by the Patriots or by us, we were looking for others so that we could find consensus. We have not tried at all by quotas or by percentages to calculate them, but to find the best possible, acceptable for both sides. In the same way we approached the Deputy Ministers. By these two names you read, I've spoken to Mr. Valeri Simeonov, I've told him my concerns about the subject. I've received the letters you're referring to properly, and I've forwarded them all to him. He came along with his fellow Patriots, and said: "We stand behind these people and keep them there. We have our political responsibility. After they wear it, I wear it. If they are not good deputy ministers or ministers, of course it is also our political responsibility. I don't want it to be understood in any way: those, if they are good, are ours; if someone is bad, they are theirs or vice versa. I think we've created some good timing right now, we're adjusting the government's work. I hope that the employers' organizations, with whom I think we are at least in a wonderful relationship, will be able to convince them that they have nothing to worry about. I'm gonna hear how you're gonna work this out and I'm gonna answer it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u177	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Kutev, please come in for up to two supplementary questions within a total of two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u178	Honourable Members, Mr. Prime Minister! I also mentioned more than two names, now I will have to include more, unfortunately, because I actually talked about Georg Georgiev, whose 25 years of experience obviously does not allow for the necessary experience as Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. For me, the point in this case is that...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u179	Please don't call the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u180	...the last thing we do is anyone can do it. More important to me is another one to the supplementary questions. One of them, of course, concerns Mr. Valeri Simeonov, without having anything against Valeri Simeonov's personality, and nothing personal about my questions. But when you make him chairman of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues, there are several objectives in this Union. One of them is preserving and strengthening ethnic tolerance and understanding. There is a goal for the work of not allowing local, interethnic and ethnosocial conflicts, aims to increase public sensitivity and intolerance to the manifestations of discrimination. There are statements of Mr Simeonov against this which, in no way, confirm these objectives. It stands spoken by the parliamentary tribune that they have now turned into a cocky, cocky, cocky, scorned human beings, and that about the gypsies, as he calls them, because that is what they are quoted here in this statement; there is the idea of children for children who play with pigs on the street and you see, they have no right to receive children's benefits; there is the idea of maternal aids for women with the instinct of street bitches. This is a quote from his parliamentary statement. How do these quotations respond to the idea of this Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues, in which we have said what the objectives are? How with this man's appointment you achieve those goals, it's absolutely incomprehensible to me. Second question.............................................................................. Yesterday you made an appointment to the Council of Ministers of Ms. Iliana Ivanova. I don't understand why. This is an appointment you have now made, provided that the deadline for this appointment is in 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u181	Ten seconds to go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u182	But this isn't just about Mr. Simeonov. This is about Georg Georgiev, this is about this lady whose appointment is due in a year and a half, and you're doing it now. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u183	Thank you, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u184	What is the message when you do your assignment a year and a half earlier? Are you falling from...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u185	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. [[Noise and lines.]] You have three minutes, Prime Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u186	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kutev! You're not gonna provoke me to lose my temper! Iliana Yotova is one of the most respected Bulgarians working in Brussels. She's there now. These are requirements that we have fulfilled. What kind of work did you, a year and a half before you even talked about the UN, propose Mrs. Irina Bokova? [[Applause from GERB.]] I think President Radev and I have given a good tone this time. You remember, in the mandate we were going to, we didn't propose a command of the Armed Forces. We didn't offer a commissioner at the time as a candidate. After that Mr. Radev returned the gesture he appointed Chief of Staff and left the appointment of Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior to the government. Can't you just in a more well-meaning tone about things that I'm saying again, here you are, forcing us to go back to a past that I don't want to do! And Mrs. Irina Bokova used all our support when she went to UNESCO.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u187	Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u188	All of it! By the way, I keep all her texts, Mrs. Ninova. I can show them to you. With her great gratitude expressed to me. Iliana Ivanova is also a very good specialist. Ask your people in Brussels, too. We have very good, sent to Brussels, Bulgarians and Bulgarians who represent us. I wish I didn't have to confirm the saying about the Bulgarian cauldron, where there are no guardians and guards in hell, because we are pulling ourselves inside it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u189	Kristalina Georgieva!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u190	With the best feelings I say that Georg Georgiev is really a young shot of GERB, established in the party. If you look over the years in which we have ruled, I do not know if there is a member of GERB that we have sent to the Foreign Ministry. This is Mr. Vigenin, if you could give me a hint. I do not know if a member of GERB have sent an ambassador, as Deputy Minister, you as a party have always set an example by raising young, respected by your party and prospective personnel to these posts. On the other topics, if I may. Mr. Simeonov, when we appointed the committees, he said: "For four years they have met twice, I will do my best to make them work. And he made a commitment to me that he would handle this task. And I believe in him! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u191	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Kutev, please come in for treatment within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u192	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Prime Minister! He may want to deal with Mr. Simeonov, and I am convinced that there are many things he can deal with. I don't question his ability to do a lot of things. He's done a lot of things in his life. However, I do not see how it will ensure ethnic tolerance and understanding, since, I quote literally: "This fat grandmother, by the way, has no idea how brazen she was. She was the only one who had no intention of coming back, and she knew her rights! [[Loud noise and lines, laughter from GERB.]] This old lady knows her rights! Can you imagine where we've gotten him? And this guy, with that statement, you're doing it... [[Mister President Boyko Borisov laughs.]] Yeah, and now you're laughing. Now you're having fun! This thing, I apologize, but you're making it chairman of the Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues. Not to mention, if we go back to your words, the case has nothing to do with Mrs. Ivanova's previous cases. Because the promotion of Kristalina Georgieva's candidacy was a clear move of the government against the other candidacy. A brilliant move made by you! I don't know what she thanked you for, I have no idea, but I wouldn't thank you for it, because it was a typical case of intentional failure of Bulgarian candidacy. To use just a few more words on the other part of this. You know, yesterday there was a big debate about this letter we received from Mr. Weber, about asking Mr. Kurumbashev and Mr....
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u193	It's not relevant to the question!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u194	No, it's relevant! It concerns personnel policy. It is three cases, except for Mr. Tanev, who resigned, concerning Ivo Atanasov, concerning the joking photos of Mr. Simeonov. All this, yes, very clearly in this declaration says that the party, I'm sorry, hey there is, I didn't take it to quote it that Mr Weber's party does not support any forms of. Come on, I'll talk to the hate speech and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u195	You abuse the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u196	And here we have a typical example of hate speech. So, from this point of view, I don't think... [[Noise and lines.]] I'm gonna keep doing this! You're yet to appoint and fire people. For me, the conclusion of this whole thing is that with the previous appointments you give signals that are wrong, especially with that of Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u197	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. We are moving on to a question from the MP Elena Nikolova Yoncheva about a meeting of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov with the Head of State of the Autonomous Iraqi Kurdistan Masud Barzani. Here you go, Mrs. Yoncheva. You have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u198	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! On May 25, 2017, Mr. Chairman, you had a meeting with Mr. Massoud Barzani...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u199	Is this about me or the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u200	To the Prime Minister. Actually, you had a meeting, too, but it's the Prime Minister's question. You had a meeting with Massoud Barzani, who is head of the autonomous province of Iraqi Kurdistan. Unfortunately, the Bulgarian public and Bulgarian journalists learned about this meeting from Iraqi media, from Kurdish media, where there was a detailed television report, and there were also journalistic comments, accompanied by photos published on Kurdish media websites. Personally, I find that odd. We, our public, to learn through Kurdish media about this meeting. Yes, then it was indeed confirmed by Sofia for the meeting. My question is: after discussing the topic of the upcoming referendum in Iraqi Kurdistan, a referendum on independence will be held on 25 September, what was the Bulgarian position? Do we even have a position on the upcoming referendum? Is support for the future referendum and what and whether international support has been given? I ask this question because the creation of an independent state within Iraq means a re-creating of the borders of this country means a violation of Iraq's territorial integrity. This means a chain process and possibly a redesign of the borders of the Middle East as a whole.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u201	You've got 10 seconds left!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u202	Yes, that means a chain reaction and it could affect the Balkans. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Yoncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u204	At least these are the concerns of many experts, and that is why my question is: what is the Bulgarian position expressed at this meeting and did we give international support to Mr. Barzani because it is known that Mr. Barzani is seeking such international support? Thank you. [[Loud noise, lines and calls.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Yoncheva. Prime Minister, come in for an answer. Now you've got three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u206	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Yoncheva! Colleagues, let's take a good look first, although if Mrs. Yoncheva had asked me, I would have told her why we tried as quietly as possible to pass this visit. I don't know if I need to comment on it from here, but you know that the main armies that are fighting against the Islamic State are them. Isn't that right?! And that's where I stop! [[Applause from GERB.]] I'm going to the other topic. I don't think it's the best thing to make manifests and welcomes to front armies. Velkov's here, I saw him, maybe afterwards he'll tell us if we needed to make a lot of noise. [[Applause on the right.]] I now answer to you as a very honourable MP: the meeting I held with Mr. Massoud Barzani on 25 May 2017 was part of the efforts of the president of autonomy, Iraqi Kurdistan, to present to the international community his idea of holding a referendum on a new independent state. His visit to Sofia was part of his international tour undertaken for this purpose. He arrived here from the Jordanian capital, where he had a meeting with King Abdullah II and a number of state, government and parliamentary leaders involved in the World Economic Forum of the Middle East and North Africa held in Amman. You should also bear in mind that, in any case, at international meetings, the Parties shall specify in the appropriate order how and when they will be notified. The meeting I attended was also attended by Mr Barzani's chief of staff, Fuad Hussein, the chairman of the Kurdistan Security Council Masud Barzani, President Hemin Havrami's adviser and the member of the Politburo of the Democratic Party of Kurdistan Azad Bervari. I have listened to President Barzani's views on holding a referendum and his purposes. On the part of Bulgaria, we have not taken any part in the matter. All he wanted to do was introduce him to us, and we just listened to him. On the attitude of Bulgaria's official position for the planned referendum in Iraqi Kurdistan we have not given a position. And if it is to be given, it should be given by the parliament of Bulgaria, because these are complex processes. You've offended them. According to the 2005 Iraqi Constitution, the autonomous Iraqi region of Kurdistan is a federal territorial unit managed by a regional president, government and parliament with administrative and legislative powers over the predominantly populated by the Kurdish Iraqi provinces of Erbil, Dahuk and Sulejmania. Bulgaria is consistently declared in support of the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Iraq. We have repeatedly, within the European Union and individually, stated our support for the Government of Iraq and for the full implementation of the forums initiated by it. We see the relations between Baghdad and Erbil as an internal Iraqi issue and the differences that have arisen should be resolved in dialogue between the Iraqi Government and the authorities in the Kurdistan region. Our immediate priorities in the ENI (European Neighbourhood Instrument) in relation to Iraq include the fight against ISIL, the stabilisation of sovereign territories and the process of national reconciliation. The topics concerning the fight against international terrorism, regional security and the opportunities for deepening cooperation in these areas remain particularly topical. The position of the European Union, in which Bulgaria is also involved, highlights the need to overcome the existing differences between the government and regional authorities in Baghdad and Erbil. We are currently in the process of reviewing the Strategy, but in this position Massoud Barzani thanked for the help given by the international coalition against the Islamic State, part of which is Bulgaria. The subject of military assistance... [[Replyings and calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u207	Do you want an answer, or do you want the time to keep? [[Noise and lines on the left.]] Okay. Mr. Prime Minister, they obviously don't want to hear the full answer. Here's a line. I left you at risk to ask me for a procedure in the manner of conduct, to hear a comprehensive answer, since you have also affected me, however well... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u208	I thank Mr. Borisov for the detailed answer. I'm sorry you didn't have time to hear the whole thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u209	You'll hear it all the way!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u210	Personally, I'm surprised if this meeting was really being sought to be confidential and not to get out, and it makes sense, of course, in what you said. I completely accept it. Then why were there Kurdish journalists? I personally watched the television report on Kurdish television "Kurdistan 24" and read reports with photos of this meeting. That's pretty surprising. And, secondly, Mr. Borisov, you said, and it is wonderful that you will be a bridge between Mr. Erdogan and Mrs. Merkel. In this sense: have you tried to give any international support for holding this referendum? After all, what is your position? In Bulgaria, what is the position for holding this referendum because yesterday the foreign minister of Germany said: questioning the unity of Iraq is a false path that can complicate the already severe unstable situation. He took a particular view on the upcoming referendum. What is our attitude regarding this forthcoming referendum? What is Bulgaria's position on the possible creation of a Kurdish state? Is there any danger? First of all, there is no debate in our society. This is true, but is there a danger to national security in the Balkans, to territorial integrity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Yoncheva. Honourable Prime Minister, you have the floor for the doppelganger. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u212	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yoncheva, only a very important statement in this topic in order not to be abused. The subject of providing military assistance to the autonomous Iraqi Kurdistan has not been debated, no commitments have been made, we have no way of participating and making commitments. If our enterprises in the weapons complex have their own contracts or are involved, they are therefore created these factories... I remember when I went to Sopot and Karlovo because there were no orders, no one was working. I'm not saying they're for Kurdistan. Let's not speculate. Now, fortunately, you know, they thawed. On the one hand, it is a joy to have our workers and our factories working. They've been thawing workshops since the '90s, but all this goes to places where there's military action. The other question is to make a decision in parliament and shut down military factories. Then they won't be producing weapons. As you suggest. Once again, let me remind you what I said: our commitment to support has not been expressed in any way. Our position is for a united Iraq. This is our official position. In any way, the entire delegation that has been with me can confirm, has not been raised, has not been commented at all on the issue of Germany or France on this subject. So what the German foreign minister said is his business, it's not mine. This hasn't been discussed with me. Our position is for a united Iraq! And when they want to see me, if I refuse this meeting, I take sides again. After 31 countries he's traveled around to imagine it. And lastly, I answer to you. If you've noticed, the next day when they're gone, the messages are released, not when they're here. Again, I really didn't want to answer that question, but I knew it would speculate. Many people around the world, Mr. Velkov knows, watch TV, listen to people like us when they speak, and decide to punish. Even leading services in the world, countries with where, where above us expertise, every day, if you will, torpedo them and create problems for them. Unfortunately, with today's response, I draw that attention, and I hope that we will stop here. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u213	Thank you, Prime Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u214	Velkov has something to say... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u215	What do you want, Mr. Velkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u216	Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u217	Please state your procedure, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u218	My name has been mentioned twice, and I thank you for that. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u219	I turned to you as an expert. [[National Representative Slavcho Velkov shakes hands with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u220	And in the manner of conduct, dear Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u221	Let's do it the way we're supposed to do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u222	My dear Prime Minister, I absolutely agree with this, I am very well-meaning to say it. Mr. Tsvetanov, please. The gestures and the mimics the other day, we passed a law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u223	Please, Mr. Velkov, do not engage in dialogue with the House! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u224	Make a note. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Quiet diplomacy, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Chairman, has always done the job. And you know very well that there are cases when you and I have personally done this thing, no one else in this room knows about saving Bulgarians. [[Noise and lines.]] Ask him later the Prime Minister, he'll tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u225	I won't tell either.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u226	There's nothing wrong with that, but when you make a meeting like this, you need to know how to do it. When I said: in the manner of conduct, what was the power that led the President of the Bulgarian Parliament to come out during a meeting and go to meet the respective...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u227	That's an absolute lie you're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u228	...president, not in the Council of Ministers, but in a headquarters of the Council of Ministers, for which, of course, Turkish media distributed information.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u229	What's this got to do with the way we're running things, I can't figure it out? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u230	I'm asking him, yes, I'm asking him. So he couldn't even change his costume for an official date. [[Laughter and excitement.]] There is enough footage and when Mrs. Zaharieva faced the media, she said: "This is a protocol meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u231	Five seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u232	No, this isn't a protocol meeting. Keep in mind, Prime Minister, that my attitude towards the people you have met is extremely positive. Some of them and I went to school together.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u233	Thank you, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u234	Mr. Glauchev, let Mr. Borisov hear me. Don't worry, I won't hurt your image. If anyone doesn't know how to make meetings like this, ask, we'll tell them. Because our ambassador to Baghdad doesn't know, the ambassador to Iraq doesn't know. [[GERB noise and lines]] , and as you know, Prime Minister, you must have been informed by the relevant structures, yesterday a Islam state announced that it would start a massacre in the Balkans, that is, it already recognizes its opponents. [[The National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov wants the floor for procedure.]] Fortunately, Bulgaria is not mentioned there. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Of course, Mr. Glauchev will decide.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u235	Mr. Velkov! Mr. Velkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u236	However, keep this in mind: when you announce something like this...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u237	I'll take your word for it, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u238	... keep in mind that countries such as the United States, Iran, Syria and Turkey do not approve of such a policy. [[Loud noise and lines. People's representative Slavcho Velkov spoke with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u239	Please take your place in the hall. [[The National Representative Slavcho Velkov spoke in the off microphones.]] Quaestors, please take MP Velkov to his seat. [[Noise and lines.]] Please leave the stands, Mr. Velkov. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Here you are, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u240	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, please stick to the Rules of Procedure of the Forty-fourth Parliament. What was the procedure to give Mr. Velkov the floor? And the data he exports can actually cause tension. If he wants to say something specific that he thinks is confidential, which is a sensitive subject, he needs to be done in a closed session, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u241	It was the procedure. [[National Representative Julian Angelov wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] How much longer are they going to come out in the way we're going to make some kind of plan?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u242	Mr. Chairman, your remark is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u243	She's not with you. I ask the others.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u244	My procedure is the way I conduct myself. It is not acceptable for the Bulgarian tribune of parliament to become a seat by Mr. Velkov. You cannot allow one MP to take a procedure in the manner of conduct, but to say other things, to show his warm feelings for the Prime Minister or any other thing. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] He can do it somewhere else, not in the stands. Another is the procedure he asked for, in the manner of conducting, and he turned to you where you went and what you did, a procedure in the Bulgarian Parliament in the way of walking someone does not. [[Radio and applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u245	I agree. Mr. Velkov isn't here, or he would have asked for a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any other questions? I'm calling a half-hour break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u246	Dear colleagues, we're moving on. So far, we have nine minutes spent by the parliamentary groups for declarations, which means we will be done at 2:09 p.m. with parliamentary control. We continue with questions to Mr. Valeri Simeonov, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy, who will answer first a question from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov concerning a proposal of the Deputy Prime Minister for demographic policy to limit birth rates. You have the floor, dear Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u247	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question concerns a proposal from the Deputy Prime Minister on demographic policy to limit birth rates. In connection with the idea launched by you to voluntarily limit the birth rate by placing female spirals on Bulgarian citizens, promoted in the media, such as dealing with the irresponsible birth, a term that does not exist in any legal document, a number of issues based on official statistics arise. In the last year Bulgaria has set a record for at least born babies under 60 thousand children. The previous record held the year with a severe economic crisis, 1997, when the newborns were about 5 thousand more than now, and in a country where over 180 thousand babies were born annually. The statistics are clear that the birth rate decreases progressively and evenly throughout the country, regardless of ethnic composition and literacy of the population, and that this phenomenon is directly related to the deterioration of economic conditions in the country, respectively the insolvency of the population. In this regard, my question to you is: on what basis and based on what study do you propose a restriction of basic human rights in a country whose demographic picture is nothing like that in developed countries, introducing the term "non-responsible birth." Are you based on any facts?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u248	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u249	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mrs. Petkova! Mr. Ibryamov, in your question, you admit inaccuracies in terms of the number of least born babies. According to Eurostat data, there were 65 thousand in 2015. 932 born more than in 1997 and 1998, but that's not the point. Your empathy for the demographic collapse is completely justified. There is a persistent tendency to decrease birth rates. But at least the deputy prime minister of demographic policy can be blamed in positions related to birth restriction. The statement quoted by you is taken out of the content that addresses the issue of the undisputed tendency to increase birth rates among certain ethnicities, often without the existence of elementary conditions for the healthy wear of the fetus, the lack of any mother's preparation for the most important duty of every woman, as well as conditions for the newborn in the family environment at the poverty threshold. Much of the young mothers by tradition, financial and purely domestic causes give birth between the ages of 13 and 16. According to medical science, a child's body is unprepared for such premature birth and often unwanted pregnancy. At this age, with small exceptions, the entry of the Bulgarian citizen into marriage, as well as in labour relations, is prohibited by law, meaning there is an objective legal barrier for the formation of an economically stable and secure family. This is one of the causes of high infant mortality among some groups. In the absence of elementary household and hygiene conditions, even born healthy children are subject to a significant risk associated with diseases, malnutrition and lack of adequate parental care. The families of my generation were extremely responsible for generation creation, and women were prepared with special consultations in gynecological offices and clinics. Dr. Spock's Blue Letter was a mandatory part of each home library, including Mr. Glauchev's. Unfortunately, the further fate of those born in the conditions that were described above is like the novels of Charles Dickens who are deprived of parental care, regular food, clothes, shoes, health care, education, immunizations and so on. Innocent children often become objects and subjects of crime in the slums and end up in homes for social care, children's crime institutions or in the infectious wards of hospitals. I hope I have answered your question so far what I mean by the term irresponsible birth.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u250	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u251	I have a few more words.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u252	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u253	As deputy prime minister of demographic policy and as chairman of a nationally responsible political force, I have never proposed a restriction on the fundamental human rights of the country, which is a distortion of my words. Yes, it is. My speech was aimed at the freedom of choice of the woman and preventing her from being used as a subject of sexual persecution, without the right to choose with regard to family planning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u254	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Come in for a line, Mr. Ibryamov, in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u255	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! We heard another untruth from Deputy Prime Minister Simeonov. I quote the transmission "Exclusive": "This is a birth rate that should not be encouraged. We're all witnessing that this ethnicity has a large percentage of irresponsible birth. There are various measures for the birth rate not to be encouraged to limit the birth rate by voluntary application of spirals. [[Reply by National Representative Valentin Kasabov.]] I ask you, what has changed since 2014, Mr. Simeonov? Nothing! In your 2014 programme, it says: "To support voluntary reduction of birth rates through free supply of contraception, gynecological aids and education of young parents. In the Programme of the United Patriarchs (United Patriarchs) for 2017 this is not available. Nothing has changed since 2014. It's all chimera. If I quote the European Commission report against racism and intolerance, you know how they accuse your party and what they call the NFB? In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 32 says: In Bulgaria there are several smaller ultranationalist fascist political parties and groups, including the NFB. Mr. Simeonov, you lied again. I strongly state: if you are a Bulgarian and a true patriot, immediately resign as Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u256	You won't be happy anytime soon!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u257	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u258	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members... Sorry, we're not colleagues anymore. Ladies and gentlemen of the House!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u259	He grew up!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u260	Colleagues, please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u261	Dear Mr. Ibryamov, I have done my work quite well and benevolently to answer your question, assuming that it is legitimate and dictated by the care for the demographic situation in Bulgaria. Everything I just said from the stands is the same thing I said on that show. I don't know what gap you see, what a difference in speech you see. But by no means will I go into your tone, respond to political challenges and make a political statement, because here you have called me to answer as Deputy Prime Minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u262	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Procedure in the manner of holding... Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u263	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct. My colleagues have come out on this subject, but I have to make such a remark again, because the questions that have been asked, I mean previous MPs who asked questions to the Prime Minister, and they referred to the Deputy Prime Minister and other people who were absent. That's not right. Mr. Chairman, you should cross them and take their word away. This has happened to me in previous parliaments. There's nothing wrong with that, you have to follow the rules. Questions that are clearly regulated and asked should not become an excuse to make propaganda political speeches, to insult parliamentary represented political forces, as Mr. Ibryamov did in this case. I could say for his party it's unconstitutional, but I won't say it. I'm not saying that. [[Laughter]] Mr. Chairman, I ask you to intervene when the MP, asking a question, crosses the limit of the permissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u264	Yes, thank you. Indeed, there are other forms of expression on political topics. I agree with your remark, Mr. Siderov. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Teodora Halacheva on the signing of an Agreement on the Protection of Children against Content, which is unfavorable or threatens to damage their physical, mental, moral or social development. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! In the fourth class, a masked classmate is beaten up, a four-year-old with cranial trauma after a fight, a student died after an hour beating, and these are only part of the titles in 2017, which testify to the growing aggression among children in Bulgaria. Children perceive and copy the behavior they witness in their daily lives and witness through the media. Undoubtedly, parents are primarily responsible for the upbringing and upbringing of their children. But agree to change public attitudes and the fight against aggression - over and among children - responsible are the institutions. Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Simeonov, we cannot remain idle. Under the Radio and Television Act, the Council for Electronic Media and the State Agency for Child Protection develop and validate criteria for assessing the content which is adverse or threatens to damage the physical, mental, moral or social development of children. Despite the dynamically evolving media environment for more than five years, the criteria have not been replaced. Since 2013, there has been no agreement between the Council for Electronic Media, the State Agency for Child Protection and Media Suppliers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u266	Please ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u267	Only in 2013 did the amendment of the criteria undergo public consultation, but there is no agreement. Therefore, in relation to the above, and also in order to guarantee the rights of Bulgarian children, my questions are: is there an analysis of how the lack of agreement of media service users affects? What steps were taken to sign the agreement in 2017? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u268	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u269	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Petkova, dear Mrs. Halacheva, you surprised me a little with the introduction it is different from your question. In advance, before I read you the answer, I would say: I do not think that only the media are responsible for the growing violence. If it were only the media, tell him well, but, unfortunately, there is a change in the overall value system of the Bulgarian people and in the nationalization. It's a very serious matter. To your particular question. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Art. 1. 32, para. 5 of the Radio and Television Act, the Council for Electronic Media and the State Agency for Child Protection develop criteria for assessing content which is adverse or endangers the damage to the physical, mental and moral and/or social development of children, hereinafter referred to as the criteria. According to para. 6 of the same Order, the CEM, media service providers and the State Agency should enter into agreements annually by 31 March to protect children from content which is adverse or threatens to damage their physical, mental, moral and/or social development to be published on the websites of the two institutions. The criteria for assessing the content which is adverse or endangering have been adopted by a decision of the CEM on 25 October 2011 in consultation with the Agency which entered into force on 10 August 2012. Following an appeal, the Supreme Administrative Court confirmed the legality of the Decision, respectively, of the criteria of which they are unchanged. Subsequently, after the adoption of the criteria of the Agreement on the Protection of Children against Content, which is adverse or poses a risk of harm to their physical, mental, moral, social development, the Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators has been signed in two consecutive years. At the end of 2016 the dialogue between the Agency and the CEM has been resumed to discuss the best practices proposed by the Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators. As regards the submitted draft amending the criteria adopted by the SEM on 14 March 2017, which provides for a number of other changes and texts outside art. 26, The State Agency for Child Protection has only supported the proposal for publication of the Public Discussion Project. With regard to changes in art. 26 of the criteria relating to the setting up of the relevant marking with warning texts and characters in differentiated time zones, the Agency shall maintain the position that such designation by identification with a corresponding visual warning sign should be on the screen all the time of transmission and not as provided for in the proposed changes: at the beginning of the transmission, and after each interruption and stay on the screen within 60 seconds. At present, the efforts of the responsible institutions are aimed at finding a common solution in the best interests of the child in order to ensure its rights in the media environment and in order to sign an Agreement for 2017. Now specifically to your question. A meeting was held by the President of the State Agency for Child Protection with the new management of the CEM, resulting in a decision by the collective body to form an expert working group with representatives of all the institutions concerned. This has already been decided. In conclusion, I express my willingness, immediately after the completion of the work of the expert working group, to proceed to the signing of the agreement in question on protection of children from content which is adverse and so on, in order to ensure that the child's rights are respected and to prevent children from participating in programmes or other programming elements which are adverse or pose a risk to the proper development of children. Thank you for the question and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u270	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go, Mrs. Halacheva. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u271	Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! We're not talking about guilt here. We're talking about breaking the law. The Law on Radio and Television states that an annual agreement must be signed by 31 March. This is missing, as I said, since 2013. Regarding what you said, I hope that you will take a serious position and that such an agreement will be signed next year within the legal deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u272	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u273	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Halacheva, excuse me, but the state institutions are the new, newly appointed state institutions, including my mercy, are not to blame for entering an election campaign in early parliamentary elections. All of this, as you can see, is delaying deadlines. I guarantee you that this Agreement will not be adopted in 2018, but in 2017, but there is no way to comply with the deadline by 31 March. I'm sorry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-09.u274	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. That concludes with today's parliamentary control. There are really many important questions and questions ahead, but they will remain for the next one. Thank you for your participation, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. I thank the Minister of Energy who patiently waited. Thank you, too, colleagues. We've exhausted the agenda, I'm adjourning the meeting. The next one is June 14th at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
